02.26.2019	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on his vote against the House joint resolution to terminate the national emergency declared by President Trump to address the crisis at our southern border: “We clearly have a crisis on our southern border, one that requires urgent action to confront the flow of illicit drugs and illegal immigrants into our country. While some may disagree with President Trump’s decision to declare a national emergency, he is operating within the powers given to the President under the National Emergencies Act. Should we have a debate about this deeply flawed statute and how it degrades Congress’s Article I powers? Yes, but that is not what happened today. “Today’s vote was nothing more than a political stunt orchestrated by Democrats to distract from their refusal to actually address the situation at our southern border. Instead of playing political games, Congressional Democrats should work with the President and Republicans to find a solution that provides the funding needed to protect the American people.” Click here to learn more about the border crisis and the national emergency declaration courtesy of the White House.
02.26.2019	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act: “Tonight’s vote is a victory for sportsmen, outdoorsmen, and conservationists here in western North Carolina and across the country. The Land and Water Conservation Fund is one of Congress’ true bipartisan successes. For over half a century, the LWCF has preserved our public lands while also ensuring the American people maintain access to our nation’s numerous national parks, rivers, and other protected areas—all without any expense to the taxpayer. By permanently reauthorizing the LWCF we’ve guaranteed these protections will remain in place for generations to come. I’m proud to have helped lead this effort in the House and look forward to seeing President Trump sign this bipartisan bill into law soon." Earlier today, McHenry delivered a speech on the House Floor in support of S. 47. Click here or on the image below to watch: Included in S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act, is a reauthorization of the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area. Recently, McHenry introduced H.R. 1202 to reauthorize the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area through September of 2021 to ensure the preservation of the rich Appalachian traditions that are so unique to western North Carolina.
02.25.2019	Recently, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) introduced H.R. 1202, a bill to reauthorize the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area. This bill extends the authorization period of the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area—parts of which are in the Tenth District—through September 30, 2021, the same timeline as all other National Heritage Areas. "The Blue Ridge Mountains of western North Carolina are cherished around the world not just for their beauty but also for their rich history, culture, and tradition," said Congressman McHenry. "Additionally, the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area is important to our western North Carolina economy, accounting for thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in economic impact and local tax revenue. My bill will help to ensure we protect and preserve these unique Appalachian traditions and their positive impact on our local area for many years to come." Background: The Blue Ridge National Heritage Area was designated by Congress and the President in November, 2003 in recognition of the unique character, culture, and natural beauty of the Blue Ridge Mountains and foothills in Western North Carolina. Heritage tourism in the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area contributes $2.39 billion annually to the economy of the region, supporting more than 30,000 jobs and generating $176.5 million annually in state and local tax revenue.
02.14.2019	Tonight, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.J.Res. 31, the Consolidated Appropriations Act: “Tonight, we took another positive step towards solving the humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border. In addition to making a significant payment towards building the wall, this bill also provides critical funding to protect life, combat terrorism, and support small businesses like those I represent in the Tenth District. There is more work that needs to be done to fully secure our southern border. I remain committed to working with President Trump to get this done on behalf of the American people.”
02.10.2019	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03): “Giulia and I were saddened to learn of the passing of Congressman Walter Jones. He dedicated his life to our shared home state, beginning with his service in the North Carolina National Guard. He will be missed by the people of the Third District of North Carolina, whom—like his father before him—he faithfully represented for over twenty years. When thinking of Walter, I will always remember his faithful response when I’d ask how he was doing: ‘everyday is a gift.’ Giulia and I offer our sincerest condolences to Congressman Jones’ family, friends, and staff as they grieve.”
02.05.2019	Tonight, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on President Trump's second State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Trump delivered a strong message calling for us all to unite behind a shared vision of American greatness. The President laid out the many accomplishments of the past two years, from comprehensive legislation combatting the opioid epidemic to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which has helped so many American businesses and families. “As we look to the year ahead, I agree with President Trump’s call for us to put the American people first and resolve the important issues facing our country. Together, we must find a solution to the border crisis that will put an end to illegal immigration, human trafficking, and the flow of drugs and crime in to the United States. And I’m thankful to the President for shining a light on the horrors of late-term abortion, something we must end. I look forward to working with President Trump as we work to achieve these shared goals on behalf of all Americans.” Joining Congressman McHenry at tonight's State of the Union as his invited guest was Representative Jason Saine (R-97th District/Lincoln County), McHenry's representative in the NC State House.
02.01.2019	On Wednesday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) joined "Cavuto: Coast to Coast" on Fox Business to weigh in on the border wall debate and share his thoughts on the importance of ensuring our borders are secure. Click here or on the image below to watch Wednesday's interview.
01.29.2019	Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 624, the Promoting Transparent Standards for Corporate Insiders Act, sponsored by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee. H.R. 624 is a bipartisan bill that protects ‘Mom and Pop’ investors from the harmful effects of illegal insider trading and helps the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) better understand how to prevent illicit activity. Watch the speech McHenry delivered to the House floor in support of H.R. 624 by clicking here or on the image below. The House also overwhelmingly passed two other bipartisan House Financial Services Committee bills, both of which are geared towards responsible oversight to protect the American people. H.R. 502, the FIND Trafficking Act, sponsored by Congressman Juan Vargas (CA-51) and Congresswoman Ann Wagner (MO-2), directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study how virtual currencies are linked to the supply chain for drugs and human trafficking and gives lawmakers insights into how to sever that link. Watch McHenry’s remarks in support of H.R. 502 by clicking here or on the image below. H.R. 56, the Financial Technology Protection Act, sponsored by Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-8) and Congressman Ted Budd (NC-13), establishes an Independent Financial Technology Task Force to combat the use of financial technologies, like digital currencies, to fund terrorism. Watch Ranking Member McHenry’s remarks in support of H.R. 56 by clicking here or on the image below.
01.18.2019	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Republican of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 624, the Promoting Transparent Standards for Corporate Insiders Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to help ensure corporate insiders are unable to indirectly engage in illegal insider trading through changes to their trading plans. “Cracking down on fraud and abuse within our financial system is apolitical," said Congressman McHenry. "I am proud to support this meaningful effort to help the SEC better understand illicit insider trading. I look forward to working with Chairwoman Waters, and the Financial Services Committee as a whole, to explore ways to improve federal government oversight and protect American investors.”
01.09.2019	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Ranking Republican of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered a speech on the House Floor in opposition to the Senate Financial Services and General Government (FSGG) appropriations bill. Click here or on the image below to watch the speech. H.R. 264, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act is a misguided effort to end the partial government shutdown without addressing border security funding.This legislation also fails to address the needs of families and small businesses who are underbanked and underserved by financial institutions all across America.
12.12.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the incoming Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the appointment of Dr. Mark Calabria to serve as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA): “Mark Calabria is a strong choice to lead FHFA. Throughout his career, Mark has been a thought leader in advancing free market solutions to complex policy areas. I’m confident he will bring these same skills to FHFA and the American homeowner will benefit from Calabria’s service to our country."
12.06.2018	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the incoming Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the confirmation of Kathleen Kraninger as the director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection: “Congratulations to Kathleen Kraninger on her confirmation as the director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. With a full-time Director in place, the BCFP can focus on their important work protecting American consumers. I look forward to working with Kathleen in the months ahead as we help ensure American families and small businesses have greater access to our financial system.”
12.01.2018	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of President George Herbert Walker Bush: “President George Herbert Walker Bush was a patriot who dedicated his life to serving our nation. Beginning in his teens when he enlisted as a Naval Aviator during World War II, service that led him to being shot down over the Pacific, he always put country first. During his time as Vice President and later President, he was an impressive world leader advancing our values abroad and helping end the Cold War. Personally, I will never forget gathering a group of friends to go see President Bush at a campaign rally in my hometown of Gastonia during his 1992 reelection campaign. “Beyond his service to our country, President Bush was a tremendous father and role model for all Americans. Alongside his beloved wife Barbara, he raised a wonderful family and throughout his political career, President Bush led with such decency, always treating political allies and rivals with the same level of respect. Giulia and I join the rest of a grateful nation in praying for the entire Bush family as they mourn the passing of a true statesman.”
11.30.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) was elected by members of the House Republican Conference to lead the House Financial Services Committee as Ranking Member. McHenry released the following statement after his election: “I am honored to have been selected by my colleagues to serve as the Republican leader of the House Financial Services Committee. Having served on the Committee since I came to Congress, I have a deep understanding of the important role this committee plays in advancing meaningful public policy that helps American families and small businesses. “In the two years ahead, I look forward to working with my colleagues—both Republicans and Democrats alike—to produce innovative solutions that increase access to banking services and credit for all Americans. In addition, I will work in close consultation with the Trump Administration to ensure their ongoing regulatory relief efforts continue.”
11.23.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of businessman and philanthropist Robert McNair, a native of Rutherford County: “Giulia and I are saddened to learn of Robert McNair’s passing. Throughout his life, McNair never forgot where he was raised. He created a transformative educational foundation that has improved the lives of countless young people in Rutherford County while also helping numerous other local causes. Our prayers are with his wife Janice and the entire McNair family as they mourn his passing."
11.14.2018	Earlier today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, questioned the Federal Reserve's Vice Chairman for Supervision Randal Quarles on the recent changes to the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review stress tests. In addition, he questioned Fed Vice Chairman Quarles on the need for new technology to help address the challenges banks are facing today. Video of McHenry’s questions can be viewed by clicking the image below: Later in the morning, McHenry joined Bloomberg to discuss today's hearing with Fed Vice Chairman Quarles. During the interview he also discussed his candidacy to serve as the Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee in the 116th Congress. Video of the interview can be accessed by clicking on the image below:
11.08.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement announcing his candidacy to be the Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee: "Like every House Republican, I was deeply disappointed by Tuesday’s election results and saddened that many of our dear friends will not be returning to Congress in January. But now is the time to move forward. It is with this in mind that I announce my candidacy to be the Ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee. “I have a strong record on the committee, having worked with both Republicans and Democrats to increase access to capital for American small businesses and families. In the 116th Congress, I will continue to seek legislative solutions that promote financial inclusion for all. I’m committed to working with the Trump Administration, Senators, and my Democratic colleagues on the committee to achieve these goals. “That said, my eyes are wide open to the goals of the new Democrat majority. I am fully prepared to fight back against any efforts by Democrats to use this committee to roll back our successes from the last two years or use the committee as the launch pad for endless, partisan investigations. The American people sent us here to get our work done. I intend to do that and I hope our Democrat colleagues share that commitment. “In the days ahead, I look forward to continuing my conversations with my House Republican colleagues as I make the case for why I’m the best candidate to lead our committee going forward."
10.16.2018	On Saturday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) joined President Trump in the Oval Office of the White House to welcome Pastor Andrew Brunson home. Pastor Brunson, who is originally from Black Mountain, North Carolina, was imprisoned in Turkey on October 7, 2016. On Friday, over two years later, Pastor Brunson was released and finally reunited with his family here in the United States. Official White House Photo By Jodie Steck. Official White House Photo By Jodie Steck. Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead. Background: In May, a bipartisan group of 154 Representatives, led by McHenry and Congressman David Price (D, NC-04), sent a letter denouncing the wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Brunson. You can read the letter by clicking here. McHenry also called for the release of Pastor Brunson in a June speech on the House Floor, which you can click here to watch. You can read McHenry's statement on the release of Pastor Brunson here.
10.12.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson: “For two years we have called for the release of Pastor Brunson—a law-abiding American citizen and Tenth District constituent. Today, our prayers have finally been answered. I’m thankful for the combined efforts of bipartisan members of Congress, President Trump, Secretary Pompeo and all those who worked with us to right this injustice and finally set Pastor Brunson free.” Background: Pastor Brunson, who is originally from Black Mountain, North Carolina, was imprisoned in Turkey on October 7, 2016. On March 13, 2018, Pastor Brunson was issued an indictment filled with bogus charges relating to terrorism and espionage. In May, a bipartisan group of 154 Representatives, led by McHenry and Congressman David Price (D, NC-04), sent a letter denouncing the wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Brunson. You can read the letter by clicking here. McHenry also called for the release of Pastor Brunson in a June speech on the House Floor, which you can click here to watch.
10.04.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry, Senator Richard Burr, and Senator Thom Tillis sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Brock Long in regards to the appeal North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper filed for the denial of a major disaster declaration for severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides incurred in Western North Carolina from May 15 to May 30, 2018. "Although smaller in overall numbers, our constituents impacted by the May floods also suffered great loss, including loss of life," the members wrote. "Four months later they are still waiting to learn if the help needed to repair roads and infrastructure, recover from individual loss, and implement mitigation to prevent future loss will be made available to them." Full text of the letter to Administrator Long is below: October 4, 2018 Dear Administrator Long: We are writing with regard to the appeal North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper filed on September 20, 2018, for the denial of a major disaster declaration for severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides incurred Western North Carolina from May 15 to May 30, 2018. The State of North Carolina’s appeal documents over $5 million in additional damage related to the May event that was assessed after the original application was filed. In addition, the appeal addresses the following issues: 1. The scope of the damage and loss of life in the impacted area. 2. The overlapping and continuous nature of the weather systems involved. 3. The shortfall of State resources to properly respond to public and individual assistance needs related to the May event; which has been exacerbated by the declared disaster created by Hurricane Florence. We are very grateful for the outstanding and rapid response to the devastation North Carolina suffered from Hurricane Florence. Although smaller in overall numbers, our constituents impacted by the May floods also suffered great loss, including loss of life. Four months later they are still waiting to learn if the help needed to repair roads and infrastructure, recover from individual loss, and implement mitigation to prevent future loss will be made available to them. We are asking that FEMA provide the State of North Carolina’s appeal every possible consideration. As always, thank you for your hard work and the valuable services you provide for our constituents. Sincerely, Congressman Patrick McHenry Senator Richard Burr Senator Thom Tillis
09.28.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.Res. 1099 - House Amendment to Senate Amendment to H.R. 6 - SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act: "For too long families and communities all across the country, including right here in the Tenth District, have suffered from the pain caused by the opioid crisis. Today, we took an important step in the ongoing battle to end the cycle of addiction affecting the lives of so many here in western North Carolina. "I was proud to join my colleagues in sending a bipartisan, bicameral bill to President Trump’s desk that addresses all sides of this crisis, from addiction prevention to providing resources for law enforcement and families as they combat this crisis in their communities and in their own homes.” For additional information on the House of Representatives' efforts to fight the opioid epidemic, courtesy of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, click here.
09.26.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of the Conference Report for the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations bill: "We have a responsibility to ensure that the brave men and women of the U.S. military are fully equipped and have the resources needed to keep this country safe. Today’s vote in the House—fully funding the Department of Defense and providing our troops with the biggest pay raise they’ve received in nine years—is a step towards fulfilling this commitment. "In addition to supporting our troops, this package includes initial relief funding for our neighbors in eastern North Carolina impacted by Hurricane Florence. Coupled with the hurricane relief funding included in the FAA reauthorization bill passed earlier today, the House will have provided over $10 billion dollars to help our state rebuild." Background Highlights on the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations bill courtesy of the House Committee on Appropriations: Provides a total of $674.4 billion in funding, which is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act of 2019. It continues to rebuild the military with a boost of $17 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level in base discretionary funding. Of the total, the bill includes $67.9 billion for ongoing Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terror efforts. Supports our warfighters by including the authorized 2.6% pay raise for our troops – the largest such pay raise in nine years. Boosts troop levels – supports 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops and meets the requested 16,400 end-strength increase. Cares for our troops, military families, and retirees by including $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program. Includes funding above the request for cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response. Replenishes our military might by providing $148 billion for equipment procurement and $96.1 billion for research and development into new defense systems and technologies. In addition to passing the Conference Report for the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations bill the House also passed H.R. 302, FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. H.R. 302 included an additional $1.68 billion for Hurricane Florence relief. This funding will support recovery efforts from catastrophic wind and flooding damage caused by Hurricane Florence, including resources to rebuild housing, infrastructure, and assistance to local businesses as they recover from damage caused by the hurricane.
09.18.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $244,457 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lincolnton Fire Department in Lincoln County, and comes in the ninth round of this year’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant awards. These grants assist local fire departments by enabling them to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities in order to respond to emergencies whenever they may occur. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Lincolnton Fire Chief Ryan Heavner, the grant will be used to hire three new career firefighters, one for each shift. This will bring each shift up to eight fire personnel. “I look forward to visiting with Chief Heavner and his personnel again,” said Congressman McHenry. “It was last September that I visited Lincolnton Fire Department for a demonstration of the opioid reversal kits they had just outfitted all of their trucks with. This grant will add three more fire professionals to an already top notch force.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards SAFER grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Lincolnton is one of five Tenth District departments to receive SAFER funding thus far during the 2017 cycle with a total of $1,665,388 in funds distributed among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
09.11.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $358,350 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. These grants come in the ninth round of the 2017 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aim to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants from the program, which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Grants may be used for equipment or vehicle acquisition or for regional, multi-agency requests. The North Gaston Volunteer Fire Department received $251,315 in AFG funding. According to North Gaston Fire Chief William Cash, the grant funds will be used to purchase 40 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) air packs to completely replace the department’s current inventory and bring them up to standard. An air compressor to refill the air-packs will also be purchased. The City of Gastonia Fire Department received $87,273. According to Gastonia Fire Chief Phil Welch, the AFG funds will be used to purchase decontamination washers and dryers to clean firefighter turnout gear after fires and hazardous material incidents. The Bessemer City Fire Department will receive $19,762 and plans to purchase various equipment with the funds. “It is rare for one county to receive three AFG grants in one round of awards,” said Congressman McHenry. “Bessemer City, Gastonia and North Gaston should be congratulated for writing strong grant narratives. These funds will help these departments better serve their communities and I look forward to visiting with each of these departments soon.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Bessemer City, Gastonia and North Gaston are three of seven departments to receive AFG grant funding in the Tenth District during the 2017 grant funding cycle with a total of $738,509 distributed among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds through the coming months.
09.11.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $70,715 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Bostic Volunteer Fire Department in Rutherford County, and comes in the ninth round of the 2017 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Grants may be used for equipment or vehicle acquisition or for regional, multi-agency requests. Bostic VFD’s grant will be used to purchase equipment. “Bostic Volunteer Fire Department protects a large, rural area of central Rutherford County,” said Congressman McHenry. “The AFG Grant is a great resource for departments such as Bostic to purchase new equipment to better protect their community and keep fire personnel safe.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Bostic is one of seven departments to receive AFG grant funding in the Tenth District during the 2017 grant funding cycle with a total of $738,509 distributed among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds through the coming months.
09.11.2018	As Hurricane Florence approaches the North Carolina coast, it is important that all Tenth District residents prepare for potential impacts from what is expected to be a devastating storm. In advance of the outer bands of Hurricane Florence reaching our area, below is a compilation of helpful information for people living in the Tenth District. Additionally, Tenth District constituents can reach out to Congressman McHenry’s offices in Washington, Hickory, Gastonia, and Black Mountain for assistance. The contact information for each of those offices can be found here. From the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): As Hurricane Florence approaches the North Carolina coast the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is encouraging everyone to prepare for potential impacts from storms. History shows that storm tracks can change quickly and unexpectedly. Everyone should prepare for potential power outages, road closures, damage from the storm, flooding, and other hazards. It is crucial that residents and visitors in the areas that will be impacted by these storms listen to local, tribal and state officials. Below are some safety tips for power outages and flooding. Take time to prepare yourselves, your families, and others for this storm and stay tuned for the latest information from your local officials. Residents and visitors should expect that services will be disrupted for an extended period of time. Power Outage Preparation Take an inventory of the items you need that rely on electricity, including personal medical equipment. Plan for batteries and other alternatives to meet your needs when the power goes out. Sign up for local alerts and community warning systems, including Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA). Monitor weather reports for the latest on the storm’s forecast. Install carbon monoxide detectors with battery backup in central locations on every level of your home. Only use generators outdoors and away from windows. Check on your neighbors – make sure they are safe and prepared. Determine whether your home phone will work in a power outage and how long battery backup will last. Review the supplies that are available in case of a power outage. Have flashlights with extra batteries for every household member. Have enough nonperishable food and water. Use a thermometer in the refrigerator and freezer so that you can know the temperature when the power is restored. Throw out food if the temperature is 40 degrees or higher. Keep mobile phones and other electric equipment charged and gas tanks full. Flooding Do not walk, swim, or drive through flood waters. TURN AROUND, DON’T DROWN! Stay off of bridges over fast-moving water. Listen to Emergency Alert System (EAS), NOAA Weather Radio, or local alerting systems for current emergency information and instructions. Depending on where you are, and the impact and the warning time of flooding, go to the safe location that you previously identified. General Preparedness Remember: Restock emergency preparedness kits with food and water. Refill gas tanks and stock vehicles with emergency supplies and a change of clothes. Bring patio furniture and garbage cans inside; they could become dangerous in high winds. Get prescription refills if needed. Have cash on hand. Tips as the Storms Get Closer: Life threatening coastal and inland flooding is possible. Be aware of quickly moving water and flooded roads. Turn on your TV/radio, or check your city/county website every 30 minutes in order to get the latest weather updates and emergency instructions. If told to evacuate, do so immediately. Do not drive around barricades, or through high water. Remember, turn around, don’t drown! Know how you will communicate with family members once the storm passes. You can call, text, email or use social media. Remember that during disasters, text instead of calling because phone lines are often overloaded. Learn more about how you can prepare by visiting www.Ready.gov and en Español at www.Listo.gov. Download the FEMA App to locate and get directions to open shelters across the state, and receive weather alerts from the National Weather Service for up to five different locations anywhere in the United States. Information from the State of North Carolina: The main website for Florence information is: https://www.ncdps.gov/florence. County emergency management agency contact information can be found here: https://www.ncdps.gov/Emergency-Management/EM-Community/Directories/Counties Emergency Management is encouraging folks to download the ReadyNC app for additional information: https://readync.org/EN/Index.html Information About Power Outages from Duke Energy: The following tips can help you and your family stay safe if the power goes out: Stay away from power lines that have fallen or are sagging. Consider all lines energized as well as trees, limbs or anything in contact with lines. Create (or update) an emergency supply kit to save valuable time later. The kit should include everything an individual or family would need for at least two weeks, especially medicines and other supplies that might be hard to find after a storm strikes. Maintain a supply of water and non-perishable food. Keep a portable radio or TV, or NOAA weather radio on hand to monitor weather forecasts and important information from state and local officials. Charge cellphones, computers and other electronic devices in advance of the storm to stay connected to important safety and response information. Consider purchasing portable chargers and make sure they are fully charged as well. Maintain a plan to move family members – especially those with special needs – to a safe, alternative location in case an extended power outage occurs or evacuation is required. Pet owners can make arrangements to stay at evacuation shelters that accept pets, friends' or family members' homes, or pet-friendly hotels. Review insurance policies, and include extra copies of the policies and other important documents in your emergency supply kit (ideally in a waterproof container). Report all power line hazards using the following phone numbers: Duke Energy Carolinas customers – 800.769.3766 If a power line falls across a car that you're in, stay in the car. If you MUST get out of the car due to a fire or other immediate life-threatening situation, do your best to jump clear of the car and land on both feet. Be sure that no part of your body is touching the car when your feet touch the ground. Customers should stay tuned to local news for the latest advisories from the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center (NHC), as well as state and local emergency management officials. For a "Hurricane Kit Checklist," and important safety information visit http://www.ready.gov. In addition, tips on what to do before, during and after a storm can be found at http://www.duke-energy.com/safety-and-preparedness/storm-safety. A checklist serves as a helpful guide, but it's critical before, during and after a storm to follow the instructions and warnings of emergency management officials in your area. Click here for a video demonstration and to read more about safety around power lines. Outage reporting Before the storm hits, customers should note how to report power outages. Customers who experience an outage during the storm can report it by: Visiting http://duke-energy.com on a desktop computer or mobile device. Texting OUT to 57801 (standard text and data charges may apply). Calling the automated outage-reporting system at 800-769-3766 for Duke Energy Carolinas customer. For storm or power restoration updates, follow Duke Energy on Twitter (@DukeEnergy) and Facebook (Duke Energy). In addition, United Way’s 2-1-1 is a free hotline that provides information to individuals seeking community resources like shelter, food and water, recovery support, and other basic needs, before, during and after disasters. The service is available in 180 languages 24/7 by simply dialing 2-1-1 or visiting 211.org (in life threatening situations people should call 9-1-1).
09.10.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a combined $835,646 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to the Asheville Fire Department in Buncombe County. The larger of the two grants, $802,918, comes in the eighth round of this year’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant awards which assist local fire departments to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities in order to respond to emergencies whenever they may occur. Local departments applied for the grants from the program, which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Asheville Assistant Fire Chief Chris Budzinski, the grant will fund nine new career firefighter positions. This will enable the department to staff every ladder truck with four positions to fully meet current standards. The second grant is $32,728 and comes in the ninth round of the 2017 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Grants may be used for equipment or vehicle acquisition or for regional, multi-agency requests. Chief Budzinski states that the AFG grant will purchase four decontamination washer and dryer sets to clean firefighting gear. “Asheville is the economic engine of western North Carolina and a national tourist destination. The city has experienced remarkable growth and with that comes the need to provide increased emergency service protection,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants, particularly the SAFER Grant, are a tremendous resource to help cities such as Asheville expand their emergency response capabilities with a reduced burden on the local taxpayers.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards SAFER and AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Asheville is one of three Tenth District departments to receive SAFER funding thus far during the 2017 cycle with a total of $1,276,115 in funds distributed among those departments and one of seven departments to receive AFG grant funding with a total of $738,509 allotted among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
09.05.2018	President Donald J. Trump, joined by legislators and Cabinet members, signs an Executive Order strengthening retirement security in America Friday, Aug. 31, 2018, at the Harris Conference Center in Charlotte, N.C. Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead. Washington - Last week, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) joined President Donald J. Trump in Charlotte as he issued an executive order that will help strengthen retirement security in America. The order will help will help the forty two million Americans working for small businesses find easier ways to save for retirement. President Donald J. Trump, joined by McHenry and other legislators and Cabinet members, addresses his remarks prior to signing an Executive Order strengthening retirement security in America Friday, Aug. 31, 2018, at the Harris Conference Center in Charlotte, N.C. Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead. Click here to read the executive order on strengthening retirement security in America. For more information on last week's executive order click here for a release from Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta. U.S. Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta address his remarks prior to President Trump signing an Executive Order strengthening retirement security in America Friday, Aug. 31, 2018, at the Harris Conference Center in Charlotte, N.C. Official White House Photo Shealah Craighead. Click here for a video, courtesy of the White House, of last week's events in Charlotte.
07.26.2018	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced his 2018 town hall meeting schedule. Over the next month, Congressman McHenry will host six town hall meetings throughout the Tenth District. At the town hall meetings, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in the U.S. Congress and what to expect in the coming months. He will also take questions directly from constituents on the issues of concern to them. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available at the town hall meetings to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies such as the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Internal Revenue Service. The full schedule for the 2018 town hall meetings is below: Buncombe County Wednesday, August 1st at 10am Riceville Volunteer Fire Department 2251 Riceville Road Asheville, NC 28805 Catawba County Wednesday, August 1st at 2pm Congressman Patrick McHenry's Hickory District Office 1990 Main Avenue, SE Hickory, NC 28602 Lincoln/Iredell County Thursday, August 2nd at 2PM East Lincoln Fire Department 406 South Pilot Knob Road Stanley, NC 28164 Gaston County Monday, August 6th at 6PM Gaston County Commissioners Chambers Gaston County Courthouse 325 Dr. M.L.K., Jr. Way Gastonia, NC 28052 Cleveland County Tuesday, August 7th at 2PM The Don Gibson Theater 318 South Washington Street Shelby, NC 28150 Polk/Rutherford County Tuesday, August 7th at 6PM Cool Springs Administrative Building Rutherford County School Board Chambers 382 West Main Street Forest City, NC 28043 The town hall meetings will be open to the general public. Members of the media that wish to cover the town hall meetings must RSVP by clicking here.
07.17.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on House passage of the bipartisan S. 488, JOBS and Investor Confidence Act of 2018: "Small businesses and entrepreneurs are America’s true job creators, especially in communities like those I represent in western North Carolina. But for too long, these businesses have been starved of capital preventing them from growing and creating good-paying jobs in small and mid-size communities nationwide," said Congressman McHenry. "The JOBS and Investor Confidence Act changes this by supporting innovative new forms of capital formation like investment crowdfunding, which—in the proper regulatory climate—can become a vital tool for entrepreneurs and small businesses," McHenry continued. "Today’s bipartisan passage of this legislation is another important step in the House’s ongoing work to support American small businesses and entrepreneurs." Included in the JOBS and Investor Confidence Act is H.R. 6380, Crowdfunding Amendments Act, which was introduced by McHenry. The Crowdfunding Amendments Act allows crowdfunding investors to pool their money together into a fund that is advised by a registered investment advisor.
06.27.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) delivered a speech on the House Floor to raise awareness for those impacted by the opioid crisis. Click here or on the image below to watch the speech. Last week, McHenry supported H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act as it passed the House. H.R. 6 is a combination of numerous House-approved bills aimed at combatting the opioid epidemic. Click here to learn more about H.R. 6, courtesy of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and read McHenry’s statement on House passage of H.R. 6 here.
06.22.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act: "The opioid crisis has devastated families and communities all across the country, and the Tenth District is no exception. Today, the House passed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which addresses all sides of this issue, from addiction prevention to ensuring communities and law enforcement have the resources they need to combat this crisis. This vote is an important step forward as we work to stop the opioid epidemic and help end the cycle of addiction impacting many here in western North Carolina." Click here to learn more about H.R. 6 and the other important work the House has done to combat the opioid crisis courtesy of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
06.21.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling that the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) system of using in-house judges to decide conflicts is unconstitutional: "Under the Obama Administration, the SEC’s administrative law judge proceedings were unfair, biased, and unconstitutional. Today’s Supreme Court decision recognizes that. The homecourt advantage created by the SEC’s judges radically tipped the scales of justice, controlling what evidence was admissible, what procedural due process rights were provided, and the size of penalties that were imposed. I am thankful that the Supreme Court sent a clear message to Washington bureaucrats that the agencies they run are subject to the same justice system as the American people." Click here to read the Supreme Court ruling on Lucia v. SEC.
06.08.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 3, Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act. This $15 billion rescissions package, which is the largest in U.S. history, will help to reduce the deficit by cutting unnecessary spending and returning unused funds back to the U.S. Treasury. "Last month, President Trump asked Congress to cut billions of dollars in expired and unnecessary programs to help curb government waste. Last night, we delivered as the House voted to fulfill President Trump’s request so taxpayers like those I represent in the Tenth District don’t see more of their hard earned money wasted by Washington bureaucrats."
06.07.2018	Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) delivered a speech on the House floor renewing his call for the release of the wrongfully imprisoned Pastor Andrew Brunson. Pastor Brunson, who is originally from Black Mountain, North Carolina, has been imprisoned in Turkey since October 7, 2016. On March 13, 2018, Pastor Brunson was issued an indictment filled with bogus charges relating to terrorism and espionage and, if convicted, the Pastor could face up to 35 years in a Turkish prison. Click here or on the image below to watch Wednesday's speech. In May, a bipartisan group of 154 Congressmen, led by McHenry, sent a letter to the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, urging the release of Pastor Brunson. You can read the letter sent to President Erdogan by clicking here.
06.06.2018	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced Davis Kennedy, Thomas Lawley, Ryan Matz, Brandon Sherrill, Stonewall Sisk, and Daniel Andreou from North Carolina's Tenth Congressional District have accepted appointments to our nation's military service academies for the Class of 2022. Each of these students applied for a nomination through Congressman McHenry's office and were interviewed by the Congressman's Military Advisory Committee. "Congratulations to these exceptional young men on this achievement. The men and women who attend our nation's service academies are among the best and brightest in our nation and these six young men are no exception," said Congressman McHenry. "I am confident they will be excellent representatives of western North Carolina while at the service academies and as they continue their service to our nation." Davis Kennedy of Shelby, NC is the son of Anne Kennedy and Scott Kennedy and graduated from Shelby High School in 2017. This past year Davis attended the University of South Carolina where he was a member of the Navy ROTC. He will be attending the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Thomas Lawley, III of Newton, NC is the son of Tammy and Thomas Lawley, Jr. and graduated from Davidson Day School in 2017. In May, Tommy also graduated from the Naval Academy Preparatory School in Newport, Rhode Island and will be attending the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis where he will play football. Brandon Sherrill of Lincolnton, NC is the son of Rosenetta Farley and John Sherrill, Jr. and graduated from Lincolnton High School in 2017. In May, Brandon also graduated from the Naval Academy Preparatory School in Newport, Rhode Island and will be attending the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Ryan Matz of Denver, NC is the son of Joanne and Kristian Matz and a graduate of East Lincoln High School. He will be attending the United States Military Academy at West Point where he will play football. Stonewall Sisk of Iron Station, NC is the son of Ann and Gregory Sisk and a graduate of the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics in Durham. Stone will be attending the United States Military Academy at West Point. Daniel Andreou of Cramerton, NC is the son of Catherine and Costa Andreou and a graduate of Charlotte Country Day School. Although, Daniel Andreou also received a nomination from Congressman McHenry to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis he has chosen to attend the United States Military Academy in West Point. He received this nomination from U.S. Senator Richard Burr. Last Tuesday, Congressman McHenry held a reception at his Hickory office for the Tenth District appointees where the appointees were recognized along with their parents and families. If you would like additional pictures from last Tuesday’s reception, please visit Congressman McHenry’s Facebook page.
06.04.2018	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced Katie Moua as the winner of the Tenth District's 2018 Congressional Art Competition. A panel of judge's from the Tenth District selected Katie's work, "Wired Eyes", as the winner of this year's competition. Katie, lives in Claremont and is a sophomore at Bunker Hill High School where she studies art under teacher Jana Farris. Last Tuesday, Congressman McHenry hosted a reception at his Hickory District Office recognizing Katie and her art work, "Wired Eyes." "Every year I am impressed by the talent of all of our Tenth District art students and 2018 was no exception," said McHenry. "Congratulations to Katie on being chosen as this year’s winner. I look forward to seeing her artwork in the U.S. Capitol representing the Tenth District and all of its talented students throughout the next year.” Katie's artwork, seen below, will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. alongside pieces from each of the Congressional districts across the country. By winning the Tenth District's competition, she will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. Katie also wins a free trip to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and have the opportunity to view her artwork on display. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. The Congressional Art Competition is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please click here.
05.30.2018	Tenth District constituents who have incurred damage from the recent rain event need to notify their County Emergency Management Office as quickly as possible. This is important for two reasons: first, the emergency management officials can best direct you to possible resources for assistance and second, your report will help the county collect the data North Carolina Emergency Management needs to determine if and when the Governor can submit a federal disaster declaration request. Additionally, emergency shelters are open in Buncombe, Polk, and Rutherford Counties. You can check shelter availability by clicking here or on the Red Cross Emergency App. You can download the App on your mobile phone via the mobile App store or by texting “GETEMERGENCY” to 90999. Tenth District constituents in affected counties need to pay close attention to weather advisories, travel warnings, and evacuation notices. Below is a list of helpful links that will provide additional information and assistance. Constituents can also reach out to Congressman McHenry’s Washington, Gastonia, and Hickory offices for assistance. Contact information for those offices is available here. For the latest information, follow @NCEmergency Management on Twitter and Facebook. Information is also available at ReadyNC.org and at the ReadyNC mobile app which can be downloaded for free. Links for information and assistance: FEMA Individual Assistance NCEM Disaster Recovery FEMA Guidance for Filing Flood Insurance Claims Red Cross Buncombe County Emergency Management Catawba County Emergency Management Cleveland County Emergency Management Gaston County Emergency Management Iredell County Emergency Management Lincoln County Emergency Management Polk County Emergency Management Rutherford County Emergency Management
05.22.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on passage of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act: “Since Dodd Frank was enacted we’ve seen the cost of borrowing skyrocket, one in five American banks have closed, and it has become harder for American families to access the financial products they need. Today, the House voted to rollback this failed law with passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. “This bill is a win for consumers, making it cheaper and easier for them to save for college or borrow so they can buy a home. It includes common-sense protections such as allowing Americans the ability to freeze their credit in the case of data breaches or identity theft. This bill is good for small businesses, removing needless regulations and empowering innovative new forms of capital formation like angel investing. “This bill is an important first step to undo Dodd Frank. I’m proud to have played an active role in drafting this bill and I look forward to seeing President Trump sign it into law soon.” Earlier today, Congressman McHenry delivered a speech on the House floor in support of S. 2155, which you can watch by clicking here or on the image below. McHenry also joined Varney & Co. on Fox Business to discuss his support for this important legislation to provide regulatory relief for community banks and give American families and small businesses access to the financial products they need. You can watch the interview by clicking here or on the image below. Later, McHenry discussed his support of this common-sense bipartisan legislation on Bloomberg TV. To watch the interview click here or on the image below. Included in S. 2155 is Congressman McHenry’s bill, H.R. 1219, the Supporting America’s Innovators Act of 2017 which helps encourage and boost investments in small businesses in western North Carolina and throughout the country. You can learn more about H.R. 1219 by clicking here.
05.17.2018	Last night, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of the VA MISSION Act: "Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to defend this country and protect our freedoms. But too often the VA has failed to provide these heroes the care they deserve. The passage of the bipartisan VA MISSION Act changes that, ensuring our nation’s heroes receive the high quality care they’ve earned. This bill includes important reforms and funds the Choice program, helping veterans access quality care no matter where they live. I’m proud to join with President Trump in support of this legislation, providing our veterans the best care our country has to offer."
05.07.2018	On Friday, a bipartisan group of 154 Representatives, led by Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) and Congressman David Price (D, NC-04), sent a letter denouncing the wrongful imprisonment of American Pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been held in Turkey for over eighteen months. The letter was sent to the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, ahead of Pastor Brunson's next appearance in Turkish court which will occur today, May 7th. Pastor Brunson, who is originally from Black Mountain, North Carolina, has been wrongfully imprisoned in Turkey since October 7, 2016. On March 13, 2018, Pastor Brunson was issued an indictment filled with bogus charges relating to terrorism and espionage and, if convicted, the Pastor could face up to 35 years in a Turkish prison. As the letter highlights, Pastor Brunson's supposed offenses are based on “anonymous accusations, flights of fantasy, and random character assassinations.” The signatories of this letter "hope that justice would be done and Pastor Brunson would be reunited with his family." However, should that not occur, the signatories conclude, “that other measures will be necessary to ensure that the Government of Turkey respects the right of law-abiding citizens…of the United States to travel to, reside in, and work in Turkey without fear of persecution.” The full text of the letter can be viewed below or by clicking here. May 4, 2018 His Excellency Recep Tayyip Erdogan President The Republic of Turkey Dear Mr. President, It has now been over a year and a half since Turkish authorities detained Pastor Andrew Brunson, a law-abiding American citizen resident in Turkey since 1993, for alleged involvement in terrorism. Pastor Brunson’s detention and formal arrest followed the Turkish government’s imposition of a State of Emergency after a violent coup attempt in July 2016 rightly opposed by Turks across the political spectrum. The United States has condemned the coup and respects the legitimate efforts of the Turkish government to ensure its perpetrators face justice and the Turkish nation is protected from any repetition of the coup attempt. The Congress supports the ongoing efforts to strengthen law enforcement cooperation between U.S. agencies and their Turkish counterparts, including with regard to investigating alleged participants in the coup plot. However, we are deeply disturbed that the Turkish government has gone beyond legitimate action against the coup plotters to undermine Turkey’s own rule of law and democratic traditions. Under the State of Emergency, tens of thousands of Turkey’s own citizens as well as some citizens of the United States and other countries have been arrested, dismissed from employment or otherwise seen their lives destroyed on vague charges and dubious evidence. These actions by the government of Turkey are inconsistent with the commitment to law and justice that have historically been hallmarks of Turkish democracy. That the Turkish government has consistently ignored bipartisan expressions of concern from the Congress has also been cause for concern. Nonetheless, we chose to respect the working of the Turkish judicial system and await a just outcome. On March 13, 2018, Turkish authorities issued an indictment alleging and purportedly detailing Pastor Brunson’s offenses. It is an absurd collection of anonymous accusations, flights of fantasy, and random character assassination. It is an insult not only to an unjustly imprisoned individual, but to the traditions of Turkish jurisprudence. That a Turkish court could accept such a document as the basis for prosecution removes any shred of doubt that Andrew Brunson, as well as other American citizens and Turkish employees of the U.S. Government detained under the State of Emergency, is being used as a political pawn by elements of the Turkish government bent on destroying the longstanding partnership between two great nations. Moreover, the suggestion in the indictment that the actions of Pastor Brunson, to explain his religious convictions to others, were somehow meant to undermine the Turkish state brings a new and deeply disturbing dimension to the case. It should trouble all Turks justly proud of Turkey’s centuries-old tradition of welcoming believers of all faiths. The United States Government, and millions of Americans deeply concerned by the Brunson case, have been patient, in the hope that justice would be done and Pastor Brunson would be reunited with his family. The signatories of this letter have concluded that other measures will be necessary to ensure that the Government of Turkey respects the right of law-abiding citizens and employees of the United States to travel to, reside in, and work in Turkey without fear of persecution. Sincerely,
04.18.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 4554, the 21st Century IRS Act, which includes McHenry’s bill H.R. 3860, the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act of 2017 : “For years the IRS—like our tax code—has been in need of a complete overhaul. With today’s passage of the 21st Century IRS Act, the House has taken a bipartisan step to achieve that goal. This bill includes important reforms to modernize the IRS, bringing it into the 21st century and enabling the agency to better serve the American people. Coupled with passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Tax Day may soon become a day Americans welcome instead of fear.” Earlier today, McHenry spoke on the House floor in favor of the 21st Century IRS Act. To watch today's speech click here or on the image below: Background: Included as Section 301 of H.R. 4554 is H.R 3860, the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act of 2017, a bipartisan, bicameral bill McHenry introduced with Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D, OR-03) in the House. A Senate companion to H.R. 3860, S. 1958 was introduced by Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID). H.R. 3860 requires the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to automate the Income Verification Express Services process by creating an Application Programming Interface (API) allowing small businesses and consumers to access accurate credit assessments more efficiently. For more information on this provision please click here.
04.17.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush: "Barbara Bush was an incredible American. Throughout her years in the public eye, she always carried herself with the utmost integrity. With a strong personality and an unforgettable sense of humor, she served as the rock for one of America's great families, keeping them together through success and adversity, happiness and sadness. "Giulia and I join with the rest of a grateful nation in remembering and celebrating the life of Mrs. Bush. Our prayers are with the entire Bush family as they mourn this loss."
03.22.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry released the following statement on yesterday's passage of H.R. 5247, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018: “Terminally ill patients deserve the right to try every possible treatment option to cure their illness. Yet bureaucratic hurdles prevent many patients from trying new and experimental treatments. With today’s passage of the bipartisan Right to Try Act of 2018, this has changed. I’m proud to join the Trump Administration in supporting this important legislation that can help improve the lives of countless Americans.” Background on H.R. 5247 provided courtesy of the House Energy and Commerce Committee: Create a new alternative pathway for patients who do not qualify for a clinical trial Establish a robust informed consent to access unapproved drugs Specify that any unapproved drug used in the new alternative pathway must have an active application and is not the subject of a clinical hold Include a sponsor and manufacturer notification to the FDA after they make an unapproved drug available to an eligible patient Guard patients from manufacturers purposefully misbranding or mislabeling drugs Provide liability protections for manufacturers, sponsors, physicians, clinical investigators, and hospitals that participate in the existing expanded access program and the new alternative pathway; unless there is reckless or willful misconduct, gross negligence, or an intentional tort Obligate sponsors and manufacturers to report adverse events to the FDA Provide certainty to manufacturers regarding how the FDA will use patient outcomes when evaluating new drug applications
03.22.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on passage of H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act: "President Trump ran on the commitment to rebuild our military, secure our southern border, and fight the opioid crisis ravaging our communities. With today’s passage of the Consolidated Appropriations Act we’ve taken steps to achieve these goals. This bill gives our troops the largest pay increase in a decade while also including funds that will provide our armed forces with the tools and resources they need to improve military readiness. It increases our border security by providing funding for over 100 miles of the President’s wall. Finally, it includes the largest investment to date to help to combat the opioid epidemic that has touched so many American families." Background on H.R. 1625 provided courtesy of the House Committee on Appropriations: The bill includes critical funding for: National Defense – After years of neglect, this bill starts rebuilding America’s Armed Forces by making the largest investment in 15 years. It provides $654.6 billion in both base and Global War on Terror/Overseas Contingency Operations funding – the biggest year-to-year increase since the beginning of the War on Terror. It fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for the troops, fulfills the requests made by Secretary Mattis and military leaders, and gives warfighters the resources they need to fight, win, and return home safety. Securing Our Homeland – The bill includes $47.8 billion for the Department of Homeland Security, an increase of $5.4 billion over the last fiscal year. These dollars will bolster border infrastructure, add more “boots on the ground,” increase detention space, and improve surveillance technology. The legislation includes $1.571 billion for physical barriers and associated technology along the Southwest border. This amount provides for more than 90 miles of “border wall system,” going beyond the Administration’s budget request for a total of 74 miles in fiscal year 2018. Rebuilding America’s Aging Infrastructure – Improving the nation’s infrastructure is critical to reliability, safety, and economic growth. The legislation includes more than $21 billion for infrastructure projects across the country, including transportation, energy, water, and cyber. Combatting the Opioid Crisis – This legislation includes nearly $4 billion in resources to combat the opioid crisis that President Trump has declared as a national emergency. It will invest billions in treatment, prevention, and law enforcement efforts to stop the spread of these dangerous drugs and help families and communities get the assistance they need. School Safety – To help protect children and to promote safe learning environments, the bill provides more than $2.3 billion in new funding to effective mental health, training, and school safety programs at the Departments of Justice, Education, and Health and Human Services.
03.14.2018	Washington - Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 4909, STOP School Violence Act of 2018: “Our children should never be scared when they walk into school each morning. The STOP School Violence Act makes our schools safer by providing resources to train students, teachers, and local law enforcement so they can help stop school violence before it happens. It also encourages state and local officials to share best practices for preventing school violence with federal law enforcement and their counterparts in other states. I am committed to working with President Trump to ensure our schools remain a safe environment where our kids can learn and grow.” Background on H.R. 4909 courtesy of the bill’s sponsor, Congressman John Rutherford (FL-04): The STOP School Violence Act reauthorizes and amends the bipartisan 2001 Secure Our Schools (P.L. 106-386) program through the Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Assistance, providing local law enforcement, school personnel and students with the tools they need to proactively prevent a threat. The legislation authorizes $50 million annually for state and local schools to make evidence-based investments in the development and operation of FBI & Secret Service-based school threat assessment teams to help schools to intake and triage threats before tragedy strikes; implement anonymous reporting systems for students in coordination with local law enforcement; administer training and technical assistance for students, school personnel and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene early to prevent students from hurting themselves and others; facilitate coordination between schools and local law enforcement; and provide significant improvement in school security.
03.08.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced submission deadlines for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Since the competition began in 1982, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event showcasing the incredible talent of our nation's young artists. “Every year, I am impressed by the submissions of the Tenth District's bright and talented art students,” said Congressman McHenry. "I am proud to continue the tradition by recognizing this year’s standout artists by again hosting the Congressional Art Competition." The "Grand Prize" winner of the Tenth District's Congressional Art Competition will have their artwork prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol beside the winning pieces from each Congressional district. The winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and have the opportunity to view their artwork on display. By winning the Tenth District's competition, the winner will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. Click here to learn about last year's winner, Shelby Yang of Claremont. All entries will be judged by a panel, and one winner will be selected. The deadline to submit the artwork is April 30, 2018. Artwork must be submitted to any of Congressman McHenry's district offices before the April 30 deadline. The district office locations have been posted below: Hickory District Office 1990 Main Ave. SE Hickory, NC 28602 M-F 8:30am-5:00pm Gastonia District Office Gaston County Administration Building 128 West Main Avenue, Suite 115 Gastonia, NC 28053 M-F 8:30am-5:00pm Black Mountain District Office 160 Midland Ave Black Mountain, NC 28711 Monday & Wednesday 12:00pm-5:00pm Once all artwork has been received, submissions will be posted on the Congressman's Facebook page and users can share their thoughts on the work by liking their favorites. The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from Southwest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For contest rules and information, please click here.
02.28.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on today's U.S. Capitol service honoring the life and legacy of Reverend Billy Graham, who resided in the Tenth District town of Montreat: "While a son of North Carolina, Reverend Billy Graham will forever be remembered as America’s Pastor. Having served our nation for decades, I can think of no more fitting honor than for Reverend Graham to return to Washington one final time to lie in honor in the Capitol’s Rotunda. I’m humbled to have played a role in organizing today’s historic event." Yesterday, McHenry delivered a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives to pay tribute to Reverend Graham honoring, his work spreading the Gospel around the world and remembering him as a good neighbor back home in western North Carolina. Click here or on the image below to watch a video of his speech. Earlier today, McHenry spoke with Bill Hemmer from Fox News's American Newsroom to discuss Reverend Graham lying in honor in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda and to reflect on the humbling experience of representing him in Congress. Watch today's interview by clicking here or on the image below. For additional information on the recognition bestowed on Reverend Graham today, click here for an explainer from Speaker Paul Ryan on lying in honor.
02.22.2018	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced that he will be introducing a House Concurrent Resolution authorizing the use of the U.S. Capitol Rotunda for Reverend Billy Graham to lie in honor. The House of Representatives is expected to approve the measure during tomorrow’s pro forma session. “In addition to spreading the gospel to millions around the world, Reverend Graham served as a spiritual adviser to countless American Presidents, and an inspiration to millions,” said McHenry. “In light of this work and his years of service to the United States, it is wholly befitting for our nation to honor Reverend Graham by according the honors of Laying in Honor in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda. As Reverend Graham’s Representative in Washington, I’m honored and humbled to introduce the resolution to do just that.” Introduction of the resolution follows this morning’s announcement from Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) that Reverend Graham will lay in honor in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, February 28th. That announcement can be found here.
02.21.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) has released the following statement on the passing of the Reverend Billy Graham, who resided in the Tenth District town of Montreat: "Giulia and I are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of one of North Carolina's finest sons, the Reverend Billy Graham. Since he rose to prominence with his famous eight-week Los Angeles Crusade in 1949, Reverend Graham has served as a guiding light for people all over the world. Reverend Graham has taken the gospel to every corner of the globe, preaching to nearly 215 million people in over 185 countries since first being ordained as a minister in 1939. Commonly referred to as 'America's Pastor', Reverend Graham has long served as a moral compass for the nation, serving as a spiritual adviser to every U.S. President since Eisenhower." "One of the finest moments of my career was having the opportunity to represent Reverend Graham when his Montreat home was placed in the 10th district. The personal kindness and hospitality Reverend Graham showed when inviting me into his home is something I will never forget. "Giulia and I extend our deepest condolences to Virginia, Anne, Ruth, Franklin, and Nelson on the passing of their father and to the entire family on the loss of a grandfather, great-grandfather, mentor, and friend. We are forever indebted to Reverend Graham and his death is a tremendous loss for our state, our nation, and our world. We find solace in his passing with the knowledge that Reverend Graham has gone peacefully to be reunited with his beloved wife of 63 years, Ruth, in the kingdom he preached about for so many years."
02.14.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 3299, the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017: "The Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act is a simple bill that can have an outsized impact on American families and small businesses. This legislation merely restores consistency to our nation’s banking laws after activist judges upended nearly 200 years of legal precedent. "The practical effect of this bipartisan bill is much more significant. Its passage marks an important step towards modernizing our financial system and ensuring financial inclusion for all Americans" Congressman McHenry spoke on the House floor earlier today in support of the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act. To watch his speech click here or on the image above. BACKGROUND: H.R. 3299, the Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act of 2017 reaffirms the longstanding legal precedent under federal banking laws that preempts a loan’s interest as valid when made. In 2016, the Supreme Court declined to hear the case Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC. In Madden, the Second Circuit held that the National Bank Act, which preempts state usury laws regulating the interest a national bank may charge on a loan, does not have a preemptive effect after the national bank has sold or otherwise assigned the loan to another party. This reading of the National Bank Act was unprecedented and has created uncertainty for fintech companies, financial institutions, and the credit markets.
02.09.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act: "In the last decade we’ve seen the growth of radical Islamic terrorism and the continued rise of anti-American regimes in Russia and North Korea. Yet—as the world has become an increasingly dangerous place—we’ve failed to properly provide for our military. With passage of this budget agreement, we’ve begun to change that. “General Mattis made clear the increased defense funding in this package is necessary to repair our military and ensure our troops have the resources they need. By passing this budget agreement we are standing with President Trump and fulfilling our shared commitment to strengthening our military and keeping Americans safe.” Background on the Bipartisan Budget Act courtesy of House Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY): This agreement will unwind the sequestration cuts that have hamstrung America’s armed forces and jeopardized our national security by funding the military at this year’s National Defense Authorization Act levels. It breaks the spending “parity” demanded for years by Democrats by giving defense a larger funding increase than non-defense discretionary spending. Compared to current law spending caps, the agreement increases defense discretionary funding by $80 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 and $85 billion in FY 2019 vs. an increase in non-defense domestic discretionary of $63 billion in FY 2018 and $68 billion in FY 2019. This agreement provides for America’s veterans by helping reduce the maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration. It also provides almost $90 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations for disaster relief efforts for communities crippled by hurricanes in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida and Texas. This agreement includes $6 billion over two years to bolster the ongoing fight against opioid addiction and substance abuse by funding grants, prevention programs, and law enforcement efforts in vulnerable communities across the country. The agreement includes a $20 billion new investment in America’s infrastructure—a bipartisan priority shared by the President and lawmakers in both parties. The agreement lifts the debt limit through March 1, 2019. It includes structural reforms to Medicare and cuts to Obamacare, and repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) from Obamacare. It includes an extension of funding for Community Health Centers. This agreement includes an extension of tax relief provisions that are supported by Republicans and Democrats. It includes $2 billion in funding over two years for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). It establishes two committees to address pension and budget/appropriations reform. Continuing Resolution & Disaster Supplemental: The agreement includes a Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds the government at current levels through March 23, 2018 in order for the Appropriations Committees to negotiate detailed appropriations and deliver full funding for the remainder of FY 2018, and begin the process for FY 2019. The legislation also contains almost $90 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to help states, communities, businesses, and individuals respond and recover from recent hurricanes, wildfires and other disasters. Within in this funding, $4.9 billion is provided to increase Medicaid caps for Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands for two years, along with program requirements. Tax & Health Care Policies: The agreement includes a one-year extension of critical tax provisions that help families, individuals and small businesses across the country. These provisions expired at the end of 2016. It includes an additional four years of authorization for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The measure also includes a package of bipartisan Medicare provisions, known as Medicare extenders, and funding for community health centers.
02.02.2018	Two days and three big examples of the benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. On Wednesday, Thermo Fisher Scientific announced additional investments benefiting its colleagues, customers, and communities because of the savings they have received through the historic tax reform package signed into law last December. Then on Thursday, Lowe’s Home Improvement and Duke Energy announced they would be passing tax cut savings to employees and customers through benefits, bonuses, and lower prices. Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Thermo Fisher Scientific will make investments totaling $50 million which includes giving 68,000 employees a one-time $500 bonus and investing an additional $16 million in R&D and STEM research. These bonuses and investments will directly benefit employees at Thermo Fisher’s facilities in Asheville, Charlotte, and the Research Triangle. Lowe's Home Improvement plans to use the savings it received from tax reform with one-time bonuses of up to $1,000 for its more than 260,000 hourly employees and to enhance benefits, including expanded maternity and paternal leave. The 24,000 Lowe's employees working in North Carolina will be among those who feel the positive impact of this announcement. Duke Energy has announced plans to pass its Tax Cuts and Jobs Act savings directly to its customers. The energy company will be helping North Carolina customers by reducing prices in the short term and using the tax cut savings to offset future rate increases. “Since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act became law in December, we’ve seen hundreds of companies announce plans to pass their tax savings along to American workers and consumers,” said Congressman Patrick McHenry. “These three announcements are just the latest examples of the significant benefits western North Carolinians will see thanks to this landmark legislation.” Thermo Fisher, Lowe's, and Duke Energy join the over 200 companies who are proof that tax reform is helping our economy grow and giving hardworking Americans the tax relief they deserve. Click here for a complete list—compiled by House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01)—of other businesses providing bonuses and making investments in their communities because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. To see the complete announcement for each company, click here for Thermo Fisher, click here for Lowe's Home Improvement, and click here for Duke Energy.
01.30.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 695, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act: “It is Congress’s duty to provide the U.S. military with the resources they need to keep Americans safe. Today, the House has once again voted to support our troops and help ensure the safety of all Americans by passing the Department of Defense Appropriations Act. “This appropriations package increases funding for the DOD, addresses the dangerous readiness gap that has developed in our military, and gives our fighting men and woman a well-deserved raise. Now it is time for the Senate to follow our lead and pass this important package.”
01.30.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the statement below following President Donald J. Trump's first State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Trump delivered a unifying message focused on the strength of the American people and the success of the American economy. The President laid out the accomplishments we’ve achieved with tax cuts for all Americans and the repeal of countless job-killing regulations. He outlined plans for the year ahead, detailing how we will combat the opioid crisis and focusing on how we can use savings from tax reform to invest in developing our workforce and helping communities that have been left behind. In the weeks ahead, I look forward to working with President Trump to achieve these shared goals on behalf of all Americans.” Joining Chief Deputy Whip McHenry at tonight's State of the Union as his invited guest was Representative Tim Moore (R-Cleveland County), Speaker of the North Carolina State House. Prior to President Trump's address, Speaker Moore joined Chief Deputy Whip McHenry for a tour of the U.S. Capitol and dinner in the office of House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23).
01.19.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on passage of H.R. 4712, Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: "Today—as tens of thousands of pro-life Americans march in Washington—the House again voted to protect the unborn. With passage of the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act we’ve ensured that any child born alive during an abortion is provided the life-saving procedures needed for them to survive." Note: Today, tens of thousands of pro-life Americans have gathered in Washington, D.C. for the 45th Annual March For Life. Complete details on this year's march can be found here.
01.18.2018	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 195, Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act: “The continuing resolution approved tonight provides a full six years of funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program used by countless American families. It delays Obamacare’s costly medical device and healthcare insurance taxes providing even more tax relief to the American people. Most importantly, it ensures our troops get paid. I’m hopeful the Senate will not allow partisan political games to get in the way of helping the vast majority of Americans.”
12.19.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today the House voted to fix our nation’s broken tax code with passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This vote fulfills our commitment to cut taxes on American families and provide American businesses with much-needed tax relief. “This bill gives a $2,000 tax cut to an average family of four making $73,000 annually. It helps grow the American economy, which means more and better jobs. Small businesses will benefit from lower rates, while larger companies will be more competitive globally. I’m proud to support the passage of this bill and look forward to seeing President Trump sign this massive tax cut in to law." NOTE: The Senate is expected to take up and pass the conference report on the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Tuesday evening.
11.16.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today the House has taken a crucial step towards fulfilling our commitment to provide the American people with the tax relief they need. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a vitally important bill that helps average families and small business throughout the country. “This bill helps families by simplifying the tax code and allowing them to keep more of their hard-earned money—nearly $2,400 for the typical middle class family in western North Carolina. It helps small businesses by lowering their rates making it easier for them to grow and create jobs. It helps American businesses by making them more competitive globally and enabling them to keep more jobs here in the United States. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the result of three years of hard work by the House. It is a conservative, pro-growth plan that will stimulate job creation and be a win for all Americans. I’m proud to support it’s passage and look forward to continuing our work with President Trump to get this bill signed into law.” This morning Congressman McHenry delivered a speech on the House floor in support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Click here or on the image below to watch: You can read more about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act here and learn about how it will positively impact North Carolina’s 10th District here.
11.14.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) releases the following statement on House passage of the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 2810 - National Defense Authorization Act: “Congress has the responsibility to support our nation’s troops and ensure they have the resources they need to defend our nation at a moment’s notice. Regrettably, the previous Administration failed to provide our fighting men and women with all of the tools they need to complete their mission “Today, the House agreed to a Conference Report that does just that. This legislation fully funds the pay raise our troops are entitled to under the law. It reforms the way the Pentagon does business by streamlining bureaucracy and embracing efficiency throughout our military. This legislation also mandates a complete audit of the Department of Defense to help ensure taxpayer dollars are not wasted. This is a strong bill that supports our men and women in uniform and I look forward to seeing President Trump sign it into law soon.” To learn additional information on the Conference Report accompanying H.R. 2810 visit the website of the House Armed Services Committee.
11.08.2017	Washington - Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) spoke on the House floor in honor of Montreat resident, Reverend Billy Graham who yesterday celebrated his 99th birthday. Watch the full speech by clicking here or on the image below: You can learn more about Reverend Graham's 99th birthday celebration and plans for his centennial year here courtesy of the Billy Graham Evangelical Association.
11.02.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on introduction of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, House Republicans bill to reform our nation's tax code: “Americans need a tax code that grows the middle-class, increases American competitiveness, and creates good-paying jobs. Today, House Republicans introduced a plan that will do that. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provides real middle class tax relief. “Our bill reduces rates on families allowing them to keep more of their hard-earned money. For average western North Carolina families, this means an extra $1,200 in their pockets each year. This is a pro-growth, job creating bill. I look forward to working with President Trump and my House colleagues to get this plan signed into law by the end of the year.” Also on Thursday, McHenry joined Fox Business' Varney & Co. to discuss how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help middle class families and small businesses in western North Carolina. Click here or on the link below to watch the full interview. Yesterday, McHenry joined CNBC's Power Lunch to discuss the House Republican tax reform plan. Click here to watch the full interview. Below you can find detailed information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act courtesy of the House Way ans Means Committee. For individuals and families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Eliminates special-interest deductions that increase rates and complicate Americans’ taxes – so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Takes action to support American families by: Establishing a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserves the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide important tax relief for low-income Americans working to build better lives for themselves. Streamlines higher education benefits to help families save for and better afford college tuition and other education expenses. Continues the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts so Americans can continue to save for their future. Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax so millions of individuals and families will no longer have to worry about calculating their taxes twice each year and pay the higher amount. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the exemption and repealing the Death Tax after six years. Family-owned farms and businesses will no longer have to worry about double or triple taxation from Washington when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20% – down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25% – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing the growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off the interest on loans that help these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. Retains the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Preserves the Research & Development Tax Credit – encouraging our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. Strengthens accountability rules for tax-exempt organizations to ensure the churches, charities, foundations, and other organizations receiving tax-exempt status are focused on helping people and communities in need. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Makes it easier and far less costly for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad.
10.26.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after President Trump's declaration of the opioid epidemic as a Nationwide Public Health Emergency: "The opioid epidemic has devastated communities throughout the United States, including here in western North Carolina. Congress has already taken important steps to address this crisis but more must be done. This afternoon, President Trump took another important step by declaring the opioid epidemic a Nationwide Public Health Emergency. I applaud the President for his leadership in combatting this epidemic. In the months ahead, I look forward to working with President Trump to curb the spread and use of these dangerous drugs."
10.19.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the retirement of Congressman Pat Tiberi (OH-12): "During his time in Congress, Pat Tiberi has proven himself to be a highly effective legislator, a persuasive vote counter, and a strong representative for the people of central Ohio. Personally, he’s served as a mentor and a trusted friend with whom I’ve connected during discussions of our shared Catholic faith. Pat has been a valuable member of both the Ways and Means Committee and our whip team and his service here in the House will be missed. Giulia and I wish Pat, Denice, and the entire Tiberi family the best as they move into this next stage of life."
10.12.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee introduced H.R. 4028, the Promoting Responsible Oversight of Transactions and Examinations of Credit Technology Act of 2017, or the PROTECT Act. Following the data breach at Equifax that exposed the personal data of over 140 million Americans, this bill would require the federal government to create uniform cybersecurity standards for credit bureaus and submit them to onsite examinations. The bill would also create a national framework for credit freezes so that victims of identity theft, active military personnel, people over 65 years of age, and children are protected. Finally, the bill would stop the credit bureaus from using Americans’ Social Security Numbers as a basis for identification by 2020. “The Equifax data breach has harmed my constituents in western North Carolina and Americans across the country," said McHenry. "It exposed a major shortcoming in our nation’s cybersecurity laws and Congress must act. The bill I’ve introduced today takes an important first step in providing meaningful reforms to help Americans who have been impacted by this breach. It is focused on prevention, protection, and prohibition. “It prevents future harm to all Americans by requiring the largest credit reporting agencies to be subjected to the same standards and supervision as the rest of the financial industry," McHenry continued. "It protects Americans by creating a national credit freeze that actually works. Finally, it prohibits the largest credit reporting agencies from continuing to rely upon the most sensitive of Americans’ personal information: our Social Security Numbers.” You can read more about the PROTECT Act in the Wall Street Journal by clicking here. Background: H.R. 4028, the Promoting Responsible Oversight of Transactions and Examinations of Credit Technology Act of 2017, or the PROTECT Act, amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to allow national security freezes for the files and credit records of protected consumers, and it creates a nationwide framework for credit freezes. Additionally, the bill establishes supervision and examination of large consumer reporting agencies under the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act. Finally, the bill prohibits the largest credit reporting agencies under 603(p) from using Social Security Numbers as a method of identification by 2020.
10.05.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.Con.Res 71, the FY 2018 Budget: “This morning the House took another important step towards reforming our nation’s broken tax code with passage of the FY18 budget resolution. This budget resolution increases funding for our national defense, balances in ten years, and includes almost $7 trillion in savings over the ten year window. “More importantly, this resolution includes reconciliation instructions that enable tax reform to move forward. President Trump and Congressional Republicans are committed to advancing a pro-growth tax reform plan that empowers America’s middle class and creates good-paying jobs. Today’s vote is an essential step in that process.”
10.03.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act or Micah’s Law: "The passage of Micah’s Law upholds our unyielding commitment to defending life, especially for pain capable children like Micah who are unable to protect themselves. The idea that abortions at 20 weeks can still occur in the United States when it has been scientifically proven the unborn child can feel pain is abhorrent. There is no greater gift than life and it must be protected at all costs." Background: H.R. 36, The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act will prohibit the abortion of unborn babies at 20 weeks or older based on the unborn child’s ability to feel pain. It is estimated H.R. 36 could save 12,000 to 18,000 babies annually. It is referred to as “Micah’s Law” after a baby named Micah who was born prematurely at the same age as children who would be protected under H.R. 36. Micah survived his premature birth, is now in kindergarten, and serves as living proof that unborn children at the 20 week mark should be given the opportunity to live.
09.28.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act of 2017. This bipartisan bill will require the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to automate the Income Verification Express Services process by creating an Application Programming Interface (API) allowing small businesses and consumers to access accurate credit assessments more efficiently. Joining McHenry as an original cosponsor of H.R. 3860 is Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D, OR-03), a senior member of the House Committee on Ways and Means. “Innovation in financial services has created more convenient and secure ways to meet the demands of American consumers," said Congressman McHenry. "For financial innovation to succeed, however, Washington must update its information technology infrastructure to keep up with the growth and creativity in the private sector. "Our federal government needs to do a better job in updating and securing its technology to make lending more accessible for all Americans," McHenry continued. "In light of the recent SEC and Equifax breaches, now is the time for Congress to take a leading role in creating a more safe and affordable process so that consumers are protected. This bill takes a small but important step in that direction by modernizing one of the most important processes in the financial system: income verification.” “Helping small businesses access capital is one of the best things we can do to support their development and grow the economy," said Senator Booker. "Our commonsense bill simplifies the loan process for small businesses and entrepreneurs by providing lenders quicker access to financial records and data, while safeguarding private information. This bill will cut red tape and unreasonably lengthy waiting periods, making the process more efficient in getting much-needed capital into the hands of small businesses.” Joining Senator Booker as an original cosponsor to the Senate companion legislation to H.R. 3860 is Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID). Background: As part of the loan and mortgage processes for consumers and small businesses, each applicant completes an IRS form called a “4506-T,” which gives the lender the right to access a summarized version of their tax transcript, which is used to confirm certain data points on their application. According to industry reports, this manual process at the IRS takes two to eight days, which creates needless delay for fintech companies and banks that rely on leveraging data and technology to make faster, informed decision for consumer and small business lending.
09.27.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the Republicans' unified framework for fixing our nation’s broken tax code: “Our tax code is broken. It hurts America’s families and small businesses and strangles economic growth. The unified framework released today changes this. It provides relief to middle-class American families, simplifying the tax filing process and reducing rates so they can keep more of their hard-earned money. Our plan will help spur the economy and create good-paying jobs by lessening the burden on our small businesses. Today’s announcement is an important first step in a long overdue process. In the weeks ahead, I look forward to working with my colleagues and President Trump on this important effort.” To learn more about the Republican framework to reform the U.S. tax code, visit fairandsimple.gop.
09.14.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3354, Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018: Today, the House passed a government funding package which will help grow our economy, provide for a strong national defense, and ensure the safety of the American people here at home. The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act supports our rural economies by undoing many of the job-killing regulations that defined the Obama-era. It provides our troops with the biggest pay raise they’ve seen in years while also reining in government waste by calling for a complete audit of the Pentagon, cutting funding to the EPA, and reducing funding for the IRS. Our appropriations package ensures security on our southern border by fully funding President Trump’s request for a wall along the southern border and defends the sanctity of life by stopping taxpayer dollars from being used to fund Planned Parenthood. It also increases resources for local law enforcement agencies and includes funding to help combat the opioid epidemic that has devastated so many American communities. Finally, passage of this package illustrates House Republicans’ commitment to governing, marking the first time in almost a decade that the House has passed all twelve annual appropriations bills.
09.12.2017	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $52,858 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Fairview Volunteer Fire Department in Buncombe County, and comes in the sixteenth round of the 2016 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Fairview Fire Chief Scott Jones, the grant funds will purchase new physical fitness equipment for all three of their fire stations. “Heart attacks are one of the leading causes of firefighter deaths and the fire service is placing a premium on fitness and readiness,” said Congressman McHenry. “Fairview has been the beneficiary of several AFG Grants and I applaud them on another successful grant to enhance the health and safety of their personnel.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash and Skyland Fire Department Assistant Chief Ryan Cole, both nationally recognized experts in their fields and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chiefs Cash and Cole began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Fairview is one of four 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2016 cycle with a total of $372,336 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Two of the four 10th District departments to receive funding are in Buncombe County. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
08.08.2017	Update: The rescheduled dates and times have been posted below in red. Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced his 2017 town hall meeting schedule. Over the next month, Congressman McHenry will host six town hall meetings throughout the Tenth District. At the town hall meetings, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in the U.S. Congress and what to expect in the coming months. He will also take questions directly from constituents on the issues of concern to them. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available at the town hall meetings to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies such as the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Internal Revenue Service. The full schedule for the 2017 town hall meetings is below: Buncombe County Tuesday, August 22nd at 2pm Land of Sky Shrine Club 39 Spring Cove Road Swannanoa, NC 28778 Polk/Rutherford County Monday, August 21st at 6pm The Foundation Performing Arts and Conference Center Isothermal Community College 286 ICC Loop Road Spindale, NC 28160 Lincoln/Iredell County Wednesday, August 23rd at 6pm Lincoln County Senior Center Gaston College – Lincoln Campus 514 South Academy Street Lincolnton, NC 28092 Catawba County Wednesday, August 16th at 2pm Congressman Patrick McHenry's Hickory District Office 1990 Main Avenue, SE Hickory, NC 28603 Cleveland County Wednesday, August 16th at 6pm Cleveland Community College Mildred Keeter Auditorium 137 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 Gaston County Thursday, August 17th at 6pm Gaston County Courthouse County Commissioners Chambers 325 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Way Gastonia, NC 28052 The town hall meetings will be open to the general public. Members of the media that wish to cover the town hall meetings must RSVP by clicking here.
07.28.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3219, Make America Secure Appropriations Act: “In this dangerous world, it is imperative Congress does all it can to secure our homeland while also providing our military with the resources they need to defend our freedoms abroad. Today, the House took decisive action to keep all Americans safe by passing the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. “This appropriations package supports our military, providing our soldiers with their largest pay raise in eight years and increasing funding for the DOD so our soldiers have the tools they need to keep us safe. This package cares for our returning heroes, providing the highest level of funding ever for the VA. Finally, it fulfills our shared commitment to secure the southern border by fully funding President Trump’s request for a border wall.” Click here to learn more about the Make America Secure Appropriations Act courtesy of the House Committee on Appropriations.
07.26.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3364 Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act: “Yesterday, the House took bipartisan action to hold rogue regimes in Russia, North Korea, and Iran accountable for their destabilizing and threatening actions towards the United States and our allies. The Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act is the result of a bipartisan compromise that takes aim at the most grave threats posed by these regimes, including the Iranian and North Korean missile programs and Russia’s continued use of cyberattacks worldwide. It is a well thought out sanctions package that will ensure American security without undermining our economic interests throughout the world.”
07.25.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passage of H.J. Res. 111, providing for Congressional disapproval of the CFPB's rule relating to "Arbitration Agreements": “Today, for the fifteenth time this year, the House has used the Congressional Review Act to undo misguided, eleventh-hour rulemaking by Obama-era bureaucrats. This time it was the Constitutionally suspect CFPB’s anti-arbitration rule, a deeply flawed regulation that is little more than a handout to trial lawyers and special interests. By undoing this rule, the House has acted to actually advance the CFPB’s stated goal: protecting American consumers.”
07.20.2017	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $582,417 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Newton Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the second round of this year’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant awards. SAFER Grants assist local fire departments by providing funding to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities enabling them to respond to emergencies whenever they may occur. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Newton Fire Chief Kevin Yoder explained that the grant will allow the department to hire six new full-time career firefighters. “This grant will enable us to add two positions to each of our three shifts,” said Chief Yoder. “From a readiness and manpower standpoint, this is crucial for a growing community.” This is the latest in a series of FEMA grants that Newton has received. The department received two Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) equipment grants as well as a Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) grant in recent years. “It is a real pleasure to once again recognize the Newton Fire Department for their outstanding work,” said Congressman McHenry. “The SAFER Grant is the hardest of the Fire Act grants to get but its impact on a community can be tremendous. I look forward to once again visiting with Chief Yoder and his department to congratulate them for this tremendous achievement.” "Congressman McHenry has been no stranger to the Newton Fire Department or to our community,” Chief Yoder continued. “We appreciate his support of the SAFER program and the fire service." Newton is the first Tenth District department to receive SAFER funding in the FY 2016 grant cycle. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds throughout the coming months.
07.19.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee joined with Congressman Gregory Meeks (D, NY-05) to introduce H.R. 3299, the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017. This bill restores consistency to our nation's lending laws to reflect the new realities of financial innovation following the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit's decision in the Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC case. “By codifying long-standing legal precedent with the valid-when-made doctrine, we ensure that low and middle-income Americans can access our financial markets," said Congressman McHenry. "But this bill does more than promote financial inclusion, it also increases stability in our capital markets which have been upended by the Second Circuit’s unprecedented interpretation of our banking laws.” “I have been encouraged by the innovative partnerships banks and fintech firms have forged to expand access to credit in under served urban and rural areas," said Congressman Meeks. "Since the financial crisis, nearly 5,000 brick and mortar branches shut their doors leaving many consumers without accessibility to affordable financial services. By partnering with fintech innovators, banks – including a number of those certified as Community Development Financial Institutions – have been able to achieve efficiencies in underwriting, allowing them to lower costs and reinvest in communities that stand to benefit the most. Such partnerships should be encouraged by policymakers and I am proud to work with Rep. McHenry to see that they are.” BACKGROUND: H.R. 3299, the Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act of 2017 reaffirms the longstanding legal precedent under federal banking laws that preempts a loan’s interest as valid when made. Last year, the Supreme Court declined to hear the case Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC. In Madden, the Second Circuit held that the National Bank Act, which preempts state usury laws regulating the interest a national bank may charge on a loan, does not have a preemptive effect after the national bank has sold or otherwise assigned the loan to another party. This reading of the National Bank Act was unprecedented and has created uncertainty for fintech companies, financial institutions, and the credit markets.
07.14.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA). “With the continued threats posed by Islamic extremists and dangerous nations like North Korea, we need a strong and agile U.S. military prepared to confront hostile actors and defend our nation at a moment’s notice. Unfortunately, under the previous Administration, the brave men and women who serve in our military did not receive all of the resources they needed to keep our country safe. “Today the House voted on a bill that fulfills our responsibility to provide for a strong national defense and ensure our nation’s troops have the tools they need to succeed. This FY18 NDAA increases funding for our military—including fully funding the pay raise our troops are entitled to under law—and reforms the way the Pentagon does business by streamlining bureaucracy and embracing efficiency throughout the military. The bill also mandates a complete audit of the Department of Defense to eliminate waste and ensure taxpayer dollars are used responsibly. This is a good bill that provides for a modern military equipped to keep Americans safe and defend our freedoms around the world.” Background: H.R. 2810 authorizes and prioritizes funding for the Department of Defense (DoD) and military activities and construction, and prescribes military personnel strengths for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill authorizes funding for base budget requirements of $631.5 billion. More information on H.R. 2810 is available here via the House Armed Services Committee.
07.13.2017	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $69,716 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Bessemer City Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the tenth round of the 2016 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments apply for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Bessemer City Manager James Inman, the grant funds will be used to purchase various vehicle extrication and rescue equipment such as hydraulic cutters, spreaders and stabilization equipment. “This is the latest grant Bessemer City has been successful in earning in the past few years,” said Congressman McHenry referring to a recent Department of Justice COPS Grant and a combination grant/loan through USDA Rural Development to fund municipal infrastructure improvements. “I enjoyed visiting with Mayor Becky Smith and Bessemer City leaders recently to celebrate these achievements and I look forward to returning soon.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash and Skyland Fire Department Assistant Chief Ryan Cole, both nationally recognized experts in their fields and former members of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry, Chief Cash, and Assistant Chief Cole began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Bessemer City is one of three 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2016 cycle with a total of $319,478 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
06.29.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law: “President Trump was elected on a pledge to protect our homeland and ensure security for all Americans. Today, the House passed two important bills that help fulfill the President’s commitment to making public security the top priority. “The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act begins a long overdue crackdown on sanctuary cities by withholding federal taxpayer funds for these cities that refuse to enforce our laws. Kate’s Law pays tribute to Kate Steinle who was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had re-entered the country after being deported. This new law will toughen punishments for illegal immigrants who re-enter, hopefully preventing future tragedies like what the Steinle family experienced.” You can learn additional information about both H.R. 3003 and H.R. 3004 by clicking here courtesy of the House Judiciary Committee.
06.28.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), along with original cosponsor Jodey Arrington (TX-19), introduced H.R. 3090, the No Free Rides Act. H.R. 3090 would prohibit illegal aliens who received Social Security Numbers through former President Barack Obama’s deferred prosecution of illegal immigrants from qualifying for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). Under President Obama’s executive actions, illegal immigrants who qualify for the program are eligible to receive Social Security Numbers. With Social Security Numbers these illegal immigrants could then qualify for the EITC if they met certain criteria. "President Trump ran on the promise of reducing illegal immigration and securing our borders. While significant gains have been achieved on both fronts, more must be done to ensure illegal immigrants who received Social Security Numbers from the previous Administration do not receive benefits intended for American families,” said Chief Deputy Whip McHenry. "The No Free Rides Act is an important step towards accomplishing this goal. It blocks all illegal immigrants from receiving the EITC, a benefit designed for American families who most need the assistance." “When middle and working class families in America are struggling to pay their bills and put food on the table, and our nation is running trillions of dollars in debt, it's outrageous that our federal government will reward those who enter our country illegally with thousands of dollars in benefits,” said Congressman Arrington. “This bill closes an Obama-era loophole that could cost us billions of dollars. It puts Americans first and helps restore Rule of Law.” Background: The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) reduces the payroll and income tax burdens of low and moderate income families via either lower rates or a tax refund. Historically, citizenship or legal status did not play a factor in determining eligibility because only individuals with a Social Security Number would be eligible to qualify for the EITC. However, President Obama’s November 2014 executive action on immigration allows illegal immigrants who qualify for deferred prosecution to receive Social Security Numbers and work permits. Further information on illegal immigrants potentially receiving money through the EITC can be found here.
06.13.2017	Washington - Last week, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) and Congressman Juan Vargas (D, CA-51) introduced H.R. 2856, the Combating BDS Act of 2017, which fights back against the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement that has been employed to delegitimize and isolate the state of Israel. In addition to McHenry and Vargas, the bill was introduced with a bipartisan group of six original cosponsors including Congressman Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-05). “The BDS movement is economic warfare against our most sacred ally,” said Chief Deputy Whip McHenry. “We have to do what is in our power to stop these hateful actions that attempt to undermine and weaken Israel. The Combating BDS Act gives our state and local governments the power to combat this by divesting from any group engaged in these wrong-headed actions.” "I am proud to join this bipartisan effort to support local and state governments combating any attempts to boycott, divest from, or sanction Israel," said Rep. Juan Vargas. "Congress must make it clear that the United States will not tolerate the international Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement that undermines our ally and threatens its security by passing the Combating BDS Act." “If you seek to harm Israel, a beacon of democracy and vital partner for the United States, then we will do everything in our power to stop you.” said Congressman Josh Gottheimer. “I am proud to introduce this legislation to help state and local governments financially combat this hateful movement. We must defend our ally Israel against biased attacks, and our bill does just that.” Background: The Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement is used by opponents of Israel to drive a wedge between Israel’s government, businesses, universities and people from its allies around the world through the boycotting of Israeli goods, cultural institutions, universities, and divesting from Israeli companies and endowments. It has been used as a weapon to wage economic warfare against Israel and to delegitimize the country. In recent years, there have been emerging efforts in state and local governments to enact measures to divest from entities that participate in the anti-Israel BDS movement. H.R. 2856 strengthens these state and local efforts by affirming, at the federal level, the legal authority of those governments to take actions to counter the BDS movement’s ongoing economic warfare against Israel. The bill clarifies that state or local governments have the legal authority to identify and divest public funds from entities engaged in the BDS movement when these designations are knowingly done and based on “credible information available to the public.” By clarifying this authority, H.R. 2856 will protect state and local governments from lawsuits alleging that they are unreasonably burdening or discriminating against interstate or foreign commerce. Additionally, by providing safe harbor for asset managers, H.R. 2856 gives states an offensive capability against any entity seeking to economically damage Israel. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) are leading a bipartisan group of 36 Senators who have introduced a companion bill, S. 170, the Combating BDS Act.
06.13.2017	Washington – Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017: “Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices, voluntarily putting their lives on the line to keep us safe and defend our freedoms. Through their service, they have earned access to the best care possible but unfortunately, the VA has too often failed them. “With today’s House passage of the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, we begin to change that. This bill makes it easier to fire underperforming VA employees while protecting whistleblowers who showed the courage to expose the VA’s shortcomings. This is an important, long overdue reform and I look forward to seeing President Trump sign it into law soon.” S. 1094, which addresses some of the bureaucratic inefficiencies that have plagued the Department of Veterans Affairs, passed the Senate on June 6, 2017 by a voice vote. After passing the House by a vote of 368 to 55 it now moves to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. Background: S. 1094, The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 creates a new efficient process to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee, while protecting employees’ due process rights and providing them with the right to appeal the action. It also creates additional protection for whistleblowers by barring the VA from removing employees with an open whistleblower complaint or case. In March, the House passed a similar legislation, H.R. 1259, the VA Accountability First Act of 2017.
06.08.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House Republican Steering Committee recommended Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04) to serve as the next Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee: “Congratulations to my good friend Trey Gowdy on his selection as the next Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Trey is an intelligent, reform-minded conservative who possesses the utmost honor and integrity. I’m confident he will be a principled but fair leader of the Committee as it continues its important work.” NOTE: This recommendation will be presented to the full House Republican Conference for official ratification.
06.08.2017	(click on the image above to see McHenry's speech in support of the CHOICE Act) Washington - Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act: “Families and small businesses are the foundation of small, rural communities like those I represent in western North Carolina. Yet, over the last seven years, the Dodd-Frank induced regulatory onslaught has made their lives harder and more expensive. Today, the House began work to undo the damage done by Dodd-Frank with passage of the Financial CHOICE Act. “Since Dodd-Frank was signed into law, American families have lost access to basic services like free checking and mortgage lending. Saving for life’s important events like buying a first house or sending your child off to college has never been harder. For small businesses, the story hasn’t been much better. Small business loans—which previously made up half of the loan value on bank balance sheets—are down to 20 percent while American counties with less than 100,000 people are losing more jobs than they create. “The Financial CHOICE Act will begin to change this. It removes onerous Washington mandates that have made it too expensive for many American families to access the most basic of financial products. It addresses the plight of small business by embracing innovation and encouraging the use of new forms of capital formation that will help small businesses grow and create jobs, ultimately stimulating economic growth in America’s rural and urban communities. “These are important reforms that will help our economy grow and, more importantly, make life easier for American families. I’m proud to have worked closely with Chairman Hensarling and my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee to draft this bill and I’m hopeful it will become law soon.” On Wednesday, Chief Deputy Whip McHenry spoke on the House floor in support of the Financial CHOICE Act. Video of those remarks can be accessed by clicking here or by clicking on the image above.
06.02.2017	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced Megan Ann Gavel and Zachery Joseph Lorch from North Carolina's Tenth Congressional District have accepted appointments to our nation's military service academies for the Class of 2021. Each of these students applied for a nomination through Congressman McHenry's office and were interviewed by the Congressman's Military Advisory Committee. "I would like to congratulate Megan and Zachery on this tremendous achievement. The young men and women who attend our nation's service academies are among the best and brightest in our nation," said Congressman McHenry. "I know both Megan and Zachery will be excellent representatives of western North Carolina at the service academies they have chosen and I commend them for their commitment to serving our nation." Megan Ann Gavel of Denver, NC is the daughter of Kirk and Lisa Gavel and graduated from Lincoln Charter School in Denver. She will be attending the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Zachery Joseph Lorch of Iron Station, NC is the son of Eric and Susan Lorch and a graduate of Woodlawn School in Mooresville. He will be attending the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. On Tuesday, Congressman McHenry held a reception at his Hickory office for the Tenth District appointees where the appointees were recognized along with their parents and families. Zachery Lorch was, regrettably, unable to attend due to a prior commitment.
06.01.2017	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced Shelby Yang as the winner of the Tenth District's 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Shelby’s work, "Luminous Soul", was selected as the winner by a panel of judges from across the Tenth District. Shelby, who lives in Claremont, is a junior at Bunker Hill High School where she studies art under teacher Jana Farris. On Tuesday, Congressman McHenry hosted a reception recognizing Shelby at his Hickory District Office. Joining Shelby for the reception were her parents, Lee and Charlie. “First, I’d like to thank each of the Tenth District students who submitted pieces for this year's competition,” said Congressman McHenry. “The level of participation from Tenth District art students has grown annually and 2017’s competition was no different.” “Congratulations to Shelby on being chosen as this year’s winner,” McHenry continued. “I look forward to seeing her artwork represent the Tenth District throughout the next year.” Shelby’s artwork, seen below, will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. alongside pieces from each of the Congressional districts across the country. By winning the Tenth District's competition, she will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. The Congressional Art Competition is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please click here.
05.11.2017	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of Hickory Mayor Rudy Wright: "Giulia and I are shocked and saddened to learn of Mayor Wright's sudden passing. Mayor Wright was synonymous with Hickory, displaying his love for the city during the entirety of his nearly two decades of service as mayor. His tenure was marked by significant economic transformation in our area, throughout which Mayor Wright always remained the city's biggest advocate and booster. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Donna and the entire Wright family as they mourn this loss."
05.04.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act: “Seven years ago, Obamacare was sold to the American people as a plan that would reduce healthcare costs and improve the quality of care for all Americans. In the years since, western North Carolinians have seen the opposite with plans cancelled, costs skyrocketing, and choice virtually nonexistent. “Since it became law, I committed to repealing and replacing this broken law and today’s House passage of the American Health Care Act is the first step in that process. The AHCA removes many of Obamacare’s most disastrous policies including the government mandate that all Americans buy health insurance, the employer mandate that has hurt job creation and small business growth nationwide, and the law’s myriad taxes which have drastically restrained economic growth. “But the AHCA is about more than just repealing Obamacare, it is about replacing it with a healthcare system that actually works. Our plan does that by maintaining popular Obamacare provisions including protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent’s health insurance until the age of 26. It also expands health savings accounts and the use of refundable tax credits. "The AHCA makes the most significant changes to Medicaid in a generation, achieving the entitlement reform President Reagan first called for in the 1970s. These changes remove the authority from Washington bureaucrats and empower each state to tailor the program to meet the needs of their individual citizens. “Today’s vote on the AHCA is the first step in our three phase process to undo the damage of Obamacare and repair our nation’s healthcare system. This is the beginning and more work must be done. I’m proud to have worked closely with President Trump and his Administration to pass this law and look forward to continuing our efforts to create a healthcare system that actually works in the days and weeks ahead."
05.03.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed legislation funding the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year: “As we continue the fight against radical Islamic terrorists in the Middle East and face the growing threat from North Korea, it is imperative our Armed Forces have the resources they need to keep us safe. Today, the House passed a government funding bill which does that. This bill provides the largest military pay raise in six years, reverses Obama-era personnel cuts, and funds new warships, aircraft, and weapons systems. "Additionally, this bill upholds many of President Trump's core commitments by increasing border security funding and curtailing the authority of un-elected Washington bureaucrats at the IRS and EPA. “Finally the bill passed today includes funding for important western North Carolina priorities including an additional $650 million to confront the opioid epidemic, increased funding for the Blue Ridge Heritage Trail and wild-land firefighting, and it maintains the Hyde Amendment protections which prevent any federal money from going to fund abortions.”
05.02.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1180, the Working Families Flexibility Act: “Over the past few decades, economic challenges have led to rapid changes in the American workforce. Yet—as more American families become dual income households with both parents working—our nation’s laws have not been updated to reflect this new reality. “Today, the House took action to change that with passage of the Working Families Flexibility Act. This legislation updates federal standards as it relates to comp time, ensuring private sector workers are treated the same as their public sector counterparts. It is an important step in our efforts to make life easier for hard-working moms and dads throughout the United States.” Background on the Working Families Flexibility Act (courtesy of the Education and the Workforce Committee): • Allows employers to offer employees a choice between cash wages and comp time for overtime hours worked. Employees who want to receive cash wages would continue to do so. No employee can be forced to take comp time instead of receiving cash wages. • Protects employees by requiring the employer and the employee to complete a written agreement to use comp time, entered into knowingly and voluntarily by the employee. Where the employee is represented by a union, the agreement to take comp time must be part of the collective bargaining agreement negotiated between the union and the employer. • Retains all existing employee protections in current law, including the 40-hour work week and how overtime compensation is accrued. The bill adds additional safeguards for workers to ensure the choice and use of comp time are truly voluntary. • Allows employees to accrue up to 160 hours of comp time each year. An employer would be required to pay cash wages at the overtime rate of time-and-a-half for any unused time at the end of the year. Workers are free to ‘cash out’ their accrued comp time whenever they choose to do so.
04.06.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after his bill, H.R. 1219, the Supporting America's Innovators Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 417 to 3: "Almost five years to the day after the JOBS Act became law, it is fitting that the House is again coming together in a bipartisan fashion to pass a bill that will help small businesses and startups access much-needed capital. "The Supporting America's Innovators Act is a common sense bill that will remove needless and outdated regulations replacing them with a regulatory framework that will encourage the growth of innovative forms of capital formation, which help businesses grow and create jobs." You can see McHenry's floor speech in support of H.R. 1219 by clicking here, or on the image above. H.R. 1219 now moves to the Senate where it awaits further consideration. A Senate version of H.R. 1219, S. 444 authored by Senators Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Dean Heller (R-NV), unanimously passed the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs in early March. H.R. 1219, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2017 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 250 people for qualifying venture capital funds. The bill would eliminate a significant barrier facing small businesses and startups, instead incentivizing venture capital funds to grow their investments in rural-state entrepreneurs, helping local economies grow and thrive. Yesterday, McHenry joined with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) to host a round table discussion celebrating the 5th anniversary of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. They were joined at the event by investor Steve Case, venture capitalist Kate Mitchell, and other Members of Congress to talk about the JOBS Act's success and how it can be improved. You can read more about yesterday's anniversary event here.
03.09.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) spoke this week with CNBC's Squawk Box and CNN's Wolf Blitzer to discuss the first part of House Republicans' three-phase plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, the American Health Care Act. Click on the images or links below to see video from Chief Deputy Whip McHenry's appearances: CNBC's Squawk Box CNN's Wolf Additionally, on Tuesday afternoon, Chief Deputy Whip McHenry joined with Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01) and the rest of the House Republican Deputy Whip team for a visit to the White House where they met with President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and other senior members of the White House staff to discuss the House Republican plan to repeal Obamacare. (photo courtesy of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer)
03.09.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, spoke in support of and voted for his bill H.R. 1219, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2017. The bill passed out of the committee by a vote of 54 to 2. H.R. 1219 now awaits a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives. You can see the full video of McHenry's statement from today's markup in support of H.R. 1219 by clicking here, or on the image below. "Over the past five years I've worked tirelessly to update our federal regulatory framework so it works for small businesses and startups," said McHenry. "Today, we took a huge step in those efforts as the Supporting America's Innovators Act passed out of both the House Financial Services and Senate Banking Committees. With bipartisan support in both chambers, I'm confident this bill will soon become law, allowing angel investing to reach its true potential." H.R. 1219, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2017 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 250 people for qualifying venture capital funds. The bill would eliminate a significant barrier facing small businesses and startups, instead incentivizing venture capital funds to grow their investments in rural-state entrepreneurs, helping local economies grow and thrive. Earlier today, H.R. 1219's Senate companion legislation, S. 444, unanimously passed the the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. The Senate companion, which was introduced by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D, ND) and Senator Dean Heller (R, NV), now heads to the full Senate for a vote. Following committee passage of S. 444, Senators Heitkamp and Heller released the following statements. “By making sure rural startups and small businesses have better access to investments from venture capital funds, we can help create new jobs and strengthen our hometown economies,”said Heitkamp. “Today, committees in both the House and Senate agreed. By passing our bipartisan, bicameral bill, it will help sharpen the focus on exciting new startup and small business investment opportunities that exist here in the heartland and get rid of a barrier to economic growth. We introduced our bill just last week, and it’s already gained tremendous momentum – and I’ll keep working to build on that excitement for bipartisan reforms that grow and invigorate our economy.” “This bipartisan piece of legislation allows for more investors to enter into venture capital-type funds. That means small businesses will now have more access to capital to grow and create jobs. It also allows for more individual investors to participate in ventures with small businesses. I’d like to thank Senator Heitkamp for her leadership on this legislation,” said Heller.
03.07.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced submission deadlines for the 2017 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. “The Tenth District is home to a number of bright and talented art students,” said Congressman McHenry. "Once again this year, I'm proud to help recognize these talented artists by hosting the Congressional Art Competition." The winning artwork from each congressional district will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The “Grand Prize” winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries will be judged by a panel, and one winner will be selected. Artwork must be submitted electronically to Joe Bost of Congressman McHenry's Gastonia office. The deadline to submit the artwork is May 5, 2017. Once all artwork has been received, submissions will be posted on the Congressman's Facebook page and users can share their thoughts on the work by liking their favorites. The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from Southwest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please click here.
03.06.2017	Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) joined with U.S. Senators Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Dean Heller (R-NV) to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to help encourage and boost investments in small businesses and startups in western North Carolina and throughout the country. H.R. 1219, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2017 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 205 people for qualifying venture capital funds. The bill would eliminate a significant barrier facing small businesses and startups, instead incentivizing venture capital funds to grow their investments in rural-state entrepreneurs, helping local economies grow and thrive. Often, would-be venture capitalists are discouraged from establishing funds in rural areas where smaller-dollar investors are more common, for fear of violating the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) limit of 100 accredited investors before a fund is required to spend the time and money registering with the agency. While this may not be an issue for some venture capital funds in high-net worth areas of the country – whose high-dollar investors make this ceiling difficult to reach – it can deter venture capital funds who would otherwise seek investments in states like North Carolina where local small businesses and startups often identify initial seed funding as their primary hurdle to getting off the ground. The Supporting America's Innovators Act would address this problem. “Small businesses drive our economy and create jobs, but have suffered the most in recent years. With small business lending down, we need to pursue policy that encourages greater innovation in capital formation and allows American to invest in each other. The Supporting America’s Innovators Act does that and I’m proud to join with a bipartisan, bicameral group to introduce this important bill,” said Congressman McHenry. “Too often, federal rules are written without rural America in mind, causing local small businesses and startups to lose out – but my bipartisan bill with Senator Heller seeks to change that,” said Senator Heitkamp. “Rural-state entrepreneurs shouldn’t be precluded from investment opportunities in their startups or small businesses, but when the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission limits accredited investors to 100 before registration with the agency is required – which doesn’t take long in rural areas where small-dollar investments are more common – that’s exactly what’s happening, and it’s time to level the playing field. By removing roadblocks to venture capital investments, we can help grow opportunities rural-state small businesses and startups need to thrive.” “Growing businesses need capital investments in order to expand, invest, and hire new employees. This bipartisan legislation updates outdated limits on investments, allowing for Nevada’s job creators to access critical capital that they can use to grow. Nevadans are tired of Washington limiting innovation and holding back our economy, and this proposal is another way to curb excessive government interference while supporting entrepreneurship,” said Senator Heller.
02.28.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in reaction to President Donald Trump's address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, President Trump laid out a clear and unifying vision for our country, a vision focused on creating good-paying jobs, lifting up the middle class, and keeping Americans safe and secure. In his first 40 days, we’ve already seen progress towards these goals with executive actions to cut regulations and secure our southern border. “With his speech tonight, President Trump outlined the next steps in our work: describing details on his plans to repeal and replace Obamacare and reform our broken tax code. In the coming days and weeks, I look forward to working with him to achieve these shared goals and improve the lives of all Americans.”
02.16.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement upon Senate confirmation of Congressman Mick Mulvaney (SC-05) as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB): “Congratulations to my good friend Mick Mulvaney on his confirmation as the Director of OMB. Mick is just the person we need at OMB: smart, principled, and brutally honest. It is long past time the federal government seriously addressed the challenges facing our federal budget and Mick is the right person to lead those efforts. While he will be missed in the House, I join with the rest of my colleagues in wishing Mick the best as he moves into his new role.”
02.03.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed executive orders relating to the Dodd-Frank Act and the Department of Labor's Fiduciary Rule: “Dodd-Frank’s regulations have driven up costs and made credit less available for families and small businesses throughout western North Carolina. Over the past six years, the House Financial Services Committee has worked tirelessly to replace this broken law with a system that actually brings down costs and promotes economic growth all while maintaining strong protections for American consumers. “With today’s orders from President Trump, it’s encouraging to see we finally have an ally in these efforts. Coupled with the executive order delaying the DOL’s costly fiduciary rule, these two actions illustrate Congress and the Trump Administration’s strong commitment to ensuring long-term financial security for American families and small businesses.”
02.01.2017	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 782, the Family Care Savings Act. This legislation raises the cap on dependent care flexible spending accounts from $5,000 to $10,000 and indexes the cap amount to inflation. Joining as an original cosponsor of the legislation is Congresswoman Grace Meng (D, NY-06). "In recent years, we've seen the cost of everyday goods and services rise dramatically and yet the vast majority of American families have seen their wages stagnate," said Congressman McHenry. "These new budget realities have posed unique challenges which the Family Care Savings Act aims to address. By increasing the cap on dependent care flexible spending accounts, this bipartisan legislation can help ease the financial burden on families saving for vital child and dependent care services.” BACKGROUND: The dependent care FSA was originally created as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and is designed to help American families plan and budget by using pretax dollars to pay for expenses related to the care of children, disabled spouses, or elderly parents. The current cap of $5,000 was originally set in 1986 and applies to children under the age of 13, anyone who is physically or mentally unable to care for themselves, and any adult whose care is predominantly paid for by another person. Minimum and maximum contribution amounts to dependent care FSAs are set by employers. Flexible spending accounts (FSA) are a savings vehicle established as part of employer-sponsored health insurance plans. They allow employees to save a share of their earnings for qualifying expenses which typically include medical or dependent care. The money is pre-taxed and deducted directly from employee's paychecks.
01.25.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) introduced H.R. 675, the Empowering Parents to Invest in Choice (EPIC) Act. Introduced during National School Choice Week, this legislation enables parents to save for their children's education in tax-free savings accounts including the popular 529 savings accounts. Additionally, this legislation would increase the contribution limits to Coverdell accounts. “Ensuring a good educational foundation for your children is among each parent’s greatest concerns in life,” said Congressman McHenry. “Yet today, rising costs have made it increasingly difficult for parents to achieve this goal. “With introduction of the EPIC Act, I hope to change that,” McHenry continued. “By allowing parents to save tax-free via 529 accounts, this legislation provides children the opportunity to attend the school of their choice, while also increasing access to important educational resources like books, tutors, or special needs services. A strong education is vital for children’s success in life, and this bill gives parents an important tool to invest in their development.” BACKGROUND ON H.R. 675: H.R. 675 allows parents to use 529 saving accounts for certain K-12 expenses, including: academic tutoring, special needs services, tuition, and fees for schools and books. It also increases the limit on contributions to Coverdell accounts from $2,000 to $12,000. 529 plans are tax-advantaged investment trusts currently used to pay for higher-education expenses. Withdrawals from these savings plans are tax-free if they are used to pay for qualified higher education expenses. Payments to 529 accounts must be made in cash or check using after-tax dollars. A Coverdell account is a tax-advantaged investment account that can be used to pay for higher-education expenses as well as elementary and secondary school expenses. Currently, these accounts are capped at $2,000 per year.
01.24.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act: “This Friday, many western North Carolinians will travel to Washington to join with hundreds of thousands of their fellow Americans solemnly marching against the tragedy of abortion. Our House majority is committed to standing with them in defense of life and today we voted to do that with passage of HR 7. “Combined with President Trump’s executive order Monday reaffirming President Reagan’s Mexico City policy, passage of HR 7 will ensure federal tax dollars are never used to fund abortions either at home or abroad. These important steps reaffirm our commitment to standing in defense of those who cannot defend themselves.”
01.20.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the swearing-in of President Donald J. Trump: “Congratulations to the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. Now's the time for action. Over the next four years, I look forward to working with President Trump to repair our nation’s broken healthcare system, rewrite our tax code, and create a regulatory climate that allows small businesses to grow and prosper. Together, we can improve the lives of all American families."
01.13.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S. Con. Res. 3, the Obamacare repeal resolution: “Obamacare was sold as a plan that would reduce costs and improve the quality of healthcare for all Americans. Here in western North Carolina it has done the opposite: canceling popular plans, driving up costs, and leaving my constituents worse off. “Today, the House made good on our commitment and passed a resolution that begins the process of repealing Obamacare. Now the hard work begins. Over the coming days and weeks, I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass bills that actually reduce costs and improve healthcare for all Americans.”
01.09.2017	Last week, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 350, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016 or "RPM Act" which permanently blocks attempts by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate modified motor vehicles used for racing. The bill was introduced with a bipartisan group of 44 original cosponsors. For decades, automotive enthusiasts have modified street vehicles into race cars used exclusively at closed race tracks. In early 2016, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would make it illegal for this practice to continue via the Clean Air Act even though Congress never intended for race cars to be subject to the Clean Air Act. While the proposed EPA regulation was withdrawn in April of 2016, the RPM Act would make permanent that race cars are exempt from EPA regulation via the Clean Air Act. "Automobile racing plays an important role in our state, both as a significant part of our local economy and also as a pastime for many North Carolinians," said Congressman McHenry. "Last year I was proud to lead the fight against the misguided EPA regulation targeting racing, but our work is not done. In the coming months, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the new Administration to ensure the RPM Act becomes law." BACKGROUND: The Clean Air Act authorizes the EPA to regulate motor vehicles but these regulations have never applied to race cars. In 1990, Congress affirmed this exemption when it authorized the EPA to regulate “non-road vehicles” and explicitly excluded any “vehicle used solely for competition” from the non-road definition. Despite the clear intent of Congress, the EPA's previously proposed rule attempts to amend the Clean Air Act. H.R. 350 simply confirms that it would not be considered tampering to modify these vehicles for exclusive track use. Converting a motor vehicle into a race car is a significant part of American automotive heritage with the practice having played a large role in the foundation of NASCAR. Additionally, the specialty automotive industry employs over 1 million Americans. Companies that manufacture, distribute, and sell products that improve race vehicle performance are a large and growing part of our economy.
01.06.2017	Last night, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017: “Over the last eight years, the Obama Administration has led a regulatory onslaught. With a cumulative economic cost of nearly $2 trillion, these unilateral actions have killed jobs and driven up the prices for everyday goods and services. “Tonight, the House took an important step to slow these regulations with passage of the REINS Act—a bill that requires any regulation with an economic impact over $100 million be submitted to Congress for approval. I’m proud to support this simple, common sense measure bringing accountability to the regulatory process.”
01.06.2017	Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to pay tribute to former Cleveland County Commissioner Ronnie Hawkins, who passed away after a long battle with illness on December 8th, 2016. You can access video of Congressman McHenry's remarks by clicking here or on the image below.
01.05.2017	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 11, objecting to the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 2334: “The United Nations' treatment of Israel is dangerous and objectionable. As our sacred ally and the only true democracy in the entire Middle East, Israel should be recognized for their commitment to democratic principles and commended for all they do to maintain peace. Instead they are targeted by another one-sided, anti-Israel resolution at the Security Council. Unlike the outgoing Administration, I’m proud to join with a bipartisan majority in the House to stand with Israel and fight back against these misguided attacks.”
12.05.2016	This evening, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and co-leader of House Republican's Innovation Initiative, applauded the passage of H.R. 6427, the Creating Financial Prosperity for Businesses and Investors Act. Included in H.R. 6427 were two bills introduced by Congressman McHenry: H.R. 4854 the Supporting America's Innovators Act and H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act. “Small businesses and entrepreneurs play a vitally important role in the American economy, especially in communities like those I represent in western North Carolina," said Congressman McHenry. "Yet today, the combination of a sluggish economy and misguided Washington regulations have led to these communities losing more jobs than they create." “This evening, the House voted on a bipartisan legislative package that can begin to change that,"Congressman McHenry continued. "The Creating Financial Prosperity for Businesses and Investors Act includes two bills I authored that will make it easier for small businesses and entrepreneurs to utilize innovative forms of capital formation to grow their ideas. While there is more work to be done to improve the small business climate in America, today’s vote is a step in the right direction.” Earlier today, Congressman McHenry spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 6427. Video of those remarks can be accessed by clicking here or on the image above. H.R. 6427 is a package of six bills that passed the House earlier this year. The two bills introduced by Congressman McHenry, H.R. 4854 and H.R. 4855, originally passed the on July 5th. You can read more about those votes by clicking here. H.R. 4854, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2016 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 to by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 250 persons for qualifying venture capital funds. H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act amends Title III of the JOBS Act by raising the dollar amount limit and clarifying certain requirements under the Exchange Act 12(g) requirements, and permit single purpose funds to participate in the sale and offer of crowdfunding securities.
12.02.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report accompanying S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: “We live in a dangerous world with multiple ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and regimes hostile to our American ideals leading countries in both Europe and Asia. In the face of these threats, it is our military men and women who keep our nation safe. Today, the House passed the annual National Defense Authorization Act ensuring they have the resources they need to get the job done. “This bipartisan bill boosts base funding, closes the readiness gap, and maintains the prohibition on transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to American soil. Ultimately, our armed forces are only as strong as the men and women who serve and our bill makes sure they are rewarded by providing the largest troop pay increase in six years. We are blessed to have the best military in the world and I’m proud to support this NDAA to maintain that strength.” For additional information on the FY2017 NDAA courtesy of the House Armed Services Committee click here.
11.30.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House passed the 21st Century Cures Act: “America has long been a world leader in medical innovation but for Americans suffering from a disease, medical innovation and breakthroughs are not coming fast enough. The 21st Century Cures Act changes that. Our bill includes increased funding for medical research and development, removes barriers that block greater medical innovation, and also reforms our nation’s mental health system. “Passage of the Cures Act is a bipartisan effort, the conclusion of three years of hard work aimed at improving the lives of Americans afflicted by these horrific diseases. While there is still work to be done, today’s vote provides hope more cures are within reach.” Further information about H.R. 34 can be found here courtesy of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Additionally, you can click here to see a video detailing the three years of work that went into passing the 21st Century Cures Act.
11.22.2016	Last month, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) visited the East Lincoln Speedway in Stanley to talk about his bill to combat EPA overreach into auto racing, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports (RPM) Act of 2016. During his visit, Congressman McHenry had the opportunity to drive a late model race car on East Lincoln’s dirt track. After completing a few laps, Congressman McHenry spoke with SPEED SPORT about the RPM Act, its progress in the House, and his experience on track. Click here or on the image below to watch McHenry's interview. H.R. 4715, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016 or “RPM Act” was introduced by McHenry in March as a response to attempts by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate modified motor vehicles used for racing. At the time, the EPA had proposed a rule under the Clean Air Act that would have made it illegal for automotive enthusiasts to use modified street vehicles—like the late model car McHenry drove today—as race cars even though Congress never intended for race cars to be subject to the Clean Air Act. In response to the introduction of the RPM Act, the EPA on April 15th withdrew its proposed regulation. Despite the EPA decision to withdraw the proposed rule, McHenry continues to advocate for Congressional action on the RPM Act to ensure this misguided regulation is stopped for good.
11.18.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) is continuing to work with local businesses and government officials to provide support to those affected by the more than 20 active wildfires burning in western North Carolina, including the Party Rock fire near Lake Lure. "My prayers are with the firefighters working around the clock to bring these fires under control," said Congressman McHenry. "They face a difficult job in challenging conditions and we are so thankful for their hard work. "In the coming days and weeks, I will continue to work with local leaders on the ground to ensure they have the resources they need to bring these fires under control," McHenry continued. "I'd like to thank everyone here in western North Carolina who has pitched in and would encourage everyone to help out if they are able." Over the last week, Congressman McHenry’s staff made calls to help hasten FEMA’s Fire Management Assistance Grant Declaration, which was formally granted on November 11. Last week, a member of the Congressman’s staff was in attendance at Governor McCrory’s incident command briefing on the wildfires. Additionally, he has remained in close contact with Lake Lure Mayor Bob Keith and Rutherford County Commission Chairman Bryan King to ensure that support is provided to the people of Western North Carolina impacted by these fires. In addition to those efforts, McHenry has been working closely with food and beverage distributors throughout the Tenth District to provide supplies to those who have been displaced or otherwise impacted by the fires. Among those contributing are Choice USA Beverage in Gastonia, NC who provided a truckload of water and snacks and Merchants Distributors (MDI)/Alex Lee, Inc. in Hickory, NC which is working with the Red Cross to provide food and other supplies. Then yesterday, McHenry's District Director Brett Keeter delivered a car load of water and other supplies to Mayor Keith in Lake Lure. As the fires continue, additional supplies and assistance are greatly appreciated. To find out what supplies are needed, please click here. If you would like to assist as a volunteer, information on how to sign up can be found here.
11.16.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced today that his Hickory office will be hosting, Jake Simpson, a current United States Naval Academy Midshipman from North Carolina on Tuesday, November 22nd. MIDN Simpson will be on hand at Congressman McHenry's Hickory office from 3 PM to 4:30 PM to answer questions about the Naval Academy and the service academy experience from Tenth District students interested in attending the academies. MIDN Simpson will be able to give prospective students a look at life at the Naval Academy and the other academies. This is an informal meeting and is not mandatory for any students wishing to receive a nomination from Congressman McHenry. It is rather a chance for prospective academy candidates to ask questions of someone who was in their shoes recently. Congressman McHenry's Hickory office is located at the North Carolina Center for Engineering Technology located at 1990 Main Avenue, SE. Students interested in attending can RSVP by clicking here or contacting Nancy Meek at 828-327-6100.
10.14.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Chief Deputy Whip, released the following statement on the passing of Donna Ballenger, the widow of Congressman Cass Ballenger who previously represented North Carolina's Tenth Congressional District: "I am saddened to learn of the passing of Mrs. Donna Ballenger, the widow of my predecessor and friend, Congressman Cass Ballenger. Donna led a life committed to public service. Whether it was assisting poor and oppressed people in Central and South America or improving childcare and medical services at home in Catawba County, Donna dedicated her life to helping those in need. Like her husband, Cass, Donna had a quick wit and a gift for motivating people to get the job done. Giulia and I extend our thoughts and prayers to the entire Ballenger family at this difficult time."
10.13.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Chief Deputy Whip, has set up a page on his website for constituents to request tickets for the 2017 Presidential Inauguration which will be held on Friday, January 20th, 2017. That page can be accessed by clicking here. Tickets to the inauguration can only be obtained through congressional offices, and the page will provide an easy to use system for those interested in attending the inauguration. The office will reward the tickets through a lottery which constituents can enter until December 16th, 2016. NOTE- Tickets are available for residents of North Carolina's Tenth Congressional District only. "The Presidential Inauguration is a vital aspect of our democracy as we celebrate the peaceful transition of power," said Congressman McHenry. "I strongly encourage Tenth District residents interested in attending this historic, quadrennial event to sign up for tickets through my website." Constituents who are interested in attending but lack internet access can request inauguration tickets by calling Congressman McHenry's Washington, DC office at 202-225-2576. Further information on the 2017 Presidential Inauguration is available here.
10.12.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced today that he will be hosting a Government Contracting and Exporting Workshop for local companies interested in selling to federal, state, and local government agencies on Wednesday, November 2nd. The workshop will be co-hosted by the Small Business and Technology Development Center (SBTDC) and will be led by instructors Noah Robins and Georges Neuenschwander, both of the SBTDC. Congressman McHenry will be in attendance for portions of the event and will be delivering remarks. The workshop can be especially useful for small businesses interested in expanding their customer base through hospitality related government contracting and exporting. Full details on the event are below: WHO: Congressman Patrick McHenry and the SBTDC WHAT: Government Contracting and Exporting Workshop WHEN: Wednesday, November 2nd from 9 AM to 12 PM WHERE: Cochrane Science Building, Room CSB 117 Gaston College, Lincoln Campus 511 South Aspen Street Lincolnton, NC 28092 Those interested in attending, can register at this link. If you are unable to register online, you can RSVP by calling Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 828-327-6100 or 800-477-2576.
10.07.2016	President Barack Obama signed S. 1698, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act into law. S. 1698 assists victims of state-sponsored eugenics programs by exempting all payments received from state eugenics compensation programs from being considered as income when determining eligibility for federal benefits. In July of 2015, Congressman McHenry introduced H.R. 2949 which is the identical, House companion legislation to S. 1698. "This is an important day for our fellow North Carolinians who were victimized by our state's eugenics program," said Congressman McHenry. "While we can never fully compensate for all their suffering, S. 1698 becoming law ensures they can now accept the compensation they deserve without fear of losing access to the social safety net. This law is the product of over fifteen months of bipartisan and bicameral work with my North Carolina colleagues and I'm proud to see it signed into law today." S. 1698, which was introduced by Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, passed the Senate by unanimous consent on November 30, 2015. It passed the House on September 27, 2016 by a voice vote. Congressman McHenry spoke on the House floor in support of passage. Video of those remarks can be found here. BACKGROUND ON H.R. 2949: During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelmingly poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits. H.R. 2949's companion legislation in the Senate, S. 1698, was introduced by North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr.
09.27.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) applauded House passage of S. 1698, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. S. 1698 is the Senate companion to H.R. 2949 which Congressman McHenry introduced in July of 2015. Click here or on the image above to see Congressman McHenry's floor speech from earlier today in support of S. 1698. "North Carolina's eugenics program is a sad part of the history of our great state," said Congressman McHenry. "While it is impossible to fully compensate those victimized at the hands of the state, this bill helps ensure these individuals are not again penalized. I'd like to thank my Senators, Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, and my House colleague G.K. Butterfield for working with me over the past 14 months to ensure this bill--which helps our constituents throughout North Carolina--becomes law." S. 1698, which originally passed the Senate by unanimous consent on November 30, 2015, passed the House of Representatives today via a voice vote. It now heads to President Obama's desk. BACKGROUND ON H.R. 2949: During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelmingly poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits. H.R. 2949's companion legislation in the Senate, S. 1698, was introduced by North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr.
09.22.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 6118, the Financial Services Innovation Act of 2016. The bill was introduced as part of the Innovation Initiative which McHenry jointly launched with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23) earlier this year. "For generations, America has been the world's leader in innovation, spanning a variety of fields from transportation to medicine to software," said McHenry. "One area we're falling behind, is the financial services industry. The bill I introduced today changes that." "The Financial Services Innovation Act represents a mindset shift in the way we address financial regulation," McHenry continues. "Rather than the command-and-control structure of the past, my bill establishes an evolved regulatory framework that encourages financial innovation, all while maintaining our regulators' commitment to the safety of consumers and our financial markets." "Ultimately this bill serves the American people. New financial technologies already make it easier to pay friends, save for college, or access credit needed to start and grow a business. Continued innovation will only further that progress, making it easier and cheaper for all Americans to access our financial system." BACKGROUND: H.R. 6118 establishes a federal regulatory framework that allows financial services companies and entrepreneurs the flexibility they need to go to market sooner with innovative, new financial technology products. The bill requires twelve different federal regulators to have a mandate to foster innovation in financial services through the creation of Financial Services Innovation Offices (FSIOs) within their agencies. Companies may apply for an “enforceable compliance agreement” with the FSIOs that, if accepted, will allow them to provide an innovative product or service under an alternative compliance plan, which waives or modifies regulation that is out-of-date or unduly burdensome. McHenry will be formally unveiling H.R. 6118 during a speech at the Electronic Transactions Associations' FinTech Policy Forum at 4:05 PM this afternoon. More details on that event are available here. In July, McHenry introduced two other fintech bills, H.R. 5724 the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act and H.R. 5725 the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act. You can learn more about those bills here.
09.19.2016	Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) received the biennial Guardian of Small Business Award from The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, in recognition of his outstanding support of America’s small business owners during the 114th Congress. “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. McHenry is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” "Small businesses are America's true job creators and remain vital economic engines in small and rural communities like those I represent in western North Carolina," said Congressman McHenry. "I always have their interests foremost when voting in Washington and I'm honored to receive this award from NFIB as recognition of my strong record supporting small businesses." The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Congressman McHenry received a 100 voting record during the 114th Congress. “NFIB is honored to present Rep. McHenry with this award,” Duggan continued.
09.14.2016	Earlier today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to pay tribute to fallen Shelby Police Officer Tim Brackeen who died Monday from injuries sustained int he line of duty over the weekend. Video of McHenry's remarks can be accessed by clicking here or on the image below.
09.12.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the Shelby Police Department announced the death of Officer Tim Brackeen, who was shot in the line of duty over the weekend: "I am devastated to learn of Officer Tim Brackeen's death. His tragic passing in the line of duty highlights the grave dangers our men and women in blue face each day they put on their uniforms and keep us safe. Giulia and I send our prayers and sympathies to Officer Brackeen's family and the entire Shelby Police Department as they mourn the loss of a beloved husband, father, son, and fellow officer."
09.08.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $91,886 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the City of Asheville Fire Department in Buncombe County, and comes in the fifth round of this year’s Fire Prevention & Safety Program (FP&S) awards which support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. The primary goal is to target high-risk populations and mitigate high incidences of death and injury. Examples of the types of projects supported by FP&S include fire prevention and public safety education campaigns, media campaigns, and arson prevention and awareness programs. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Asheville Deputy Fire Chief Chris Budzinski explained that the grant will fund several items including a smoke/carbon monoxide alarm campaign called “Get Alarmed Asheville!,” stovetop fire extinguishers, address numbering kits, smoke alarm installation tool kits, and printed materials, all to enhance household safety for Asheville residences. The grant will also have an educational component, funding the purchase of a portable children’s fire education house and a digital fire extinguisher training system with smoke generator. “The Asheville Fire Department serves the largest city in the Tenth District and one of the south’s best tourist destinations,” said Congressman McHenry. “The leadership of AFD has put together an innovative grant that will help to inform citizens of all ages about fire safety with the end goal of saving lives and protecting the treasures of this beautiful area of North Carolina.” Asheville is the first Tenth District fire department to receive FP&S funding in the FY 2015 cycle.
09.08.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $156,952 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lowell Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the ninth round of this year’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant awards which assist local fire departments to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities to help them better respond to emergencies whenever they may occur. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Lowell Fire Chief Scott Moore explained that the grant will fund several initiatives aimed at recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. Included in these initiatives are: a per call reimbursement for volunteers, training rebates for expenses to attend classes, rewards for certifications obtained, awards for outstanding service, physicals and immunizations for new recruits, and a complete set of new turnout gear for new recruits. This is Lowell’s second FEMA grant of the FY 2015 cycle. Earlier this summer, the department received an Assistance to Firefighters equipment grant. “It is a real pleasure to once again recognize the Lowell Fire Department for their outstanding work,” said Congressman McHenry. “The SAFER Grant is the hardest of the Fire Act grants to get but it’s impact on a community can be tremendous. I look forward to once again visiting with Chief Moore and his department to congratulate them on both grants they have received this cycle.” Chief Moore stated, "In a day and age when it is harder and harder to recruit volunteers to the fire service, this grant will be a tremendous asset to our department in ensuring we have ready and well-trained firefighters today and for years to come. We thank Congressman McHenry for his support of the SAFER program and all he does for the fire service." Lowell is one of two Tenth District departments to receive funding in the ninth round and they are the first Tenth District department to receive SAFER funding in the FY 2015 grant cycle. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds throughout the coming months.
09.01.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a combined $277,447 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to the Claremont Fire Department and the City of Newton Fire Department in Catawba County, and come in the twelfth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Claremont’s grant is for $23,810. The department will use the grant to replace older turnout gear and other personal protective equipment. Newton’s grant totals $253,637. According to Newton Fire Chief Kevin Yoder, the grant will be used to purchase 45 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) air packs to upgrade the department’s stock of breathing apparatus. Congressman McHenry visited the Newton Fire Department last year to see an SCBA refilling station purchased with the department’s last AFG grant. “Claremont and Newton Fire Departments serve different areas of Catawba County and are both home to dedicated firefighters,” said Congressman McHenry. “It has been my pleasure to have visited both departments in recent years. These AFG grants will serve the needs not only of these departments, but of their communities for years to come.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Claremont and Newton are two of five 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2015 cycle with a total of $573,521 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds throughout the coming months.
08.30.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $58,887 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lowell Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the tenth round of the 2015 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Lowell Fire Chief Scott Moore, the grant funds will be used to purchase forestry equipment to combat brush fires. The department’s current brush fire equipment is over twenty years old and will be retired. “The Lowell Fire Department has been very successful in recent years with the AFG Program,” said Congressman McHenry referring to Lowell’s grants in 2013 and 2014. “I enjoyed visiting with Chief Moore and his department a few years ago and look forward to returning to recognize this significant accomplishment on their part.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Lowell is one of five 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2015 cycle with a total of $573,521 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds throughout the coming months. ###
08.12.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced that he will be joining with the entire North Carolina Congressional delegation to co-host the 2016 North Carolina Business and Economic Development Summit. The summit will be on Monday, September 12th and Tuesday, September 13th with all events occurring in Washington, D.C. "Small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy here in western North Carolina," said Congressman McHenry. "Our North Carolina Congressional delegation is always working to advance public policies that help these businesses grow and create good-paying jobs. The Business and Economic Development Summit provides local businesses an excellent opportunity to hear about these efforts and interact directly with their representatives in Washington. I strongly encourage all Tenth District businesses to attend." The North Carolina Business and Economic Development Summit is an annual event and takes place on the campus of the U.S. Capitol. The 2016 schedule is still being finalized but attendees can expect to hear from guest speakers including members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation. In addition to Congressman McHenry, the other hosts of the event are Representatives G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Renee Ellmers (NC-02), Walter Jones (NC-03), David Price (NC-04), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Mark Walker (NC-06), David Rouzer (NC-07), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Mark Meadows (NC-11), Alma Adams (NC-12), George Holding (NC-13), and U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis. Businesses interested in attending can find additional information here. Those businesses wishing to register for the 2016 Summit can do so here.
08.11.2016	Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) visited the Tryon International Equestrian Center to highlight his support for their effort to host the 2018 World Equestrian Games (WEG). The WEG, is the premier, non-Olympic equestrian event and is hosted every four years between Summer Olympics. The event is administered by the Federation Equestre Internationale (FEI). "I've had the pleasure of visiting the Tryon Equestrian Center throughout its construction and the progress made is truly impressive," said Congressman McHenry. "Coupled with our area's natural beauty and welcoming residents, I cannot think of a better place for the FEI to stage the 2018 World Equestrian Games. I've been proud to make Tryon's case and I will continue my efforts to bring this international event to western North Carolina." During yesterday's visit, Congressman McHenry met with Tryon Equestrian Partners managing partner Mark Bellissimo and COO Sharon Decker. The Congressman received an overview of progress and later toured the facility. The 2018 competition was originally scheduled to be held in Bromont, Quebec, Canada but they were forced to drop their bid and on July 22nd, the FEI announced they will be looking for a new location. Tryon Equestrian Partners, owners of the Tryon Equestrian Center have offered up their facility in Mill Spring as an alternative. Since the bid process reopened, Congressman McHenry has been actively engaged in the effort to bring the 2018 competition to Polk County. North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory and South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley have also been supportive of Tryon's efforts. Additionally, the United States Equestrian Federation has communicated their support of Tryon's bid to the FEI.
07.29.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) today announced his 2016 town hall meeting schedule. Over the next two weeks, Congressman McHenry will host a town hall meeting in each of the Tenth District's seven counties. At the town hall meetings, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in the U.S. Congress and what to expect in the coming months. He will also take questions directly from constituents on the issues of concern to them. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available at the town hall meetings to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies such as the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Internal Revenue Service. The full schedule for the 2016 town hall meetings is below: Rutherford County Monday, August 1st at 6 PM The Foundation Performing Arts and Conference Center Isothermal Community College 286 ICC Loop Road Spindale, NC 28160 Lincoln County Tuesday, August 2nd at 6 PM City Council Chambers Lincolnton City Hall 114 W. Sycamore Street Lincolnton, NC 28092 Cleveland County Wednesday, August 3rd at 6 PM Mildred Keeter Auditorium Cleveland Community College 137 S. Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 Catawba County Thursday, August 4th at 6 PM North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies 1990 Main Avenue SE Hickory, NC 28602 Buncombe County Tuesday, August 9th at 6 PM Riceville Volunteer Fire Department 2251 Riceville Road Asheville, NC 28805 Polk County Wednesday, August 10th at 6 PM Polk County Commissioners Chambers Womack Building 40 Courthouse Street Columbus, NC 28722 Gaston County Thursday, August 11th at 6 PM Gaston County Commissioners Chambers Gaston County Courthouse 325 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Way #1004 Gastonia, NC 28052
07.13.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) spoke on the House floor to recognize Danny Hearn, the President of the Catawba County Chamber of Commerce who will be retiring at the end of September after twelve years of service to Catawba County's business community. Click here or on the image below to see video of the Congressman's remarks.
07.13.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the Conscience Protection Act of 2016: “No American should be forced to choose between following their conscience or following the law. Yet—on the issue of abortion—that is exactly what the Obama Administration is forcing medical professionals to do. The Conscience Protection Act changes that by reaffirming long-standing federal policy which allows doctors and hospitals who oppose abortion to live out the tenets of their faith.” BACKGROUND: The Conscience Protection Act of 2016 reaffirms the protections found in the Weldon amendment. Next, the bill opens the courts to discriminated individuals and entities to obtain necessary legal relief. Finally, the bill clarifies that nothing in the Act prevents providers from voluntarily electing to participate in abortion or makes changes to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act. Read more about this legislation here.
07.12.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) today spoke on the House floor to pay respects to Ellenboro Alderman Mike Rhyne who passed away last month at the age of 69. Click here or on the image below for full video of the Congressman's remarks.
07.12.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, yesterday introduced two bills: H.R. 5724, the Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act of 2016 and H.R. 5725, the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act of 2016. These bills restore consistency in our lending laws to reflect the new realities of financial innovation, and fix the problems with the IRS’s manual income verification process so that small businesses and consumers can receive more accurate credit assessments faster. “Innovation in financial services has created more convenient and secure ways to meet the demands of American consumers," said McHenry. "For these to succeed, however, Washington must rethink its own laws and regulations to keep up with the growth and creativity in the private sector." "These two bills are important first steps in our efforts to harness technology to make lending more accessible for all Americans," McHenry continued. "Now is the time for Congress to take a leading role in supporting the expansion of safe and affordable credit by embracing innovation and making our lending laws more consistent.” Yesterday, McHenry spoke with the Wall Street Journal about both bills. You can read that story here. Both bills are part of the Innovation Initiative which was jointly launched by Congressman McHenry and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23). BACKGROUND: H.R. 5724, the Protecting Consumers’ Access to Credit Act of 2016 reaffirms the longstanding legal precedent under the National Bank Act and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act that federal law preempts a loan’s interest as valid when made. The Supreme Court recently declined to hear the case Madden v Midland. In Madden, the Second Circuit held that the National Bank Act, which preempts state usury laws regulating the interest a national bank may charge on a loan, does not have a preemptive effect after the national bank has sold or otherwise assigned the loan to another party. This reading of the National Bank Act was unprecedented and has created uncertainty for fintech companies, banks, and the credit markets. H.R. 5725, the IRS Data Verification Modernization Act of 2016 requires the IRS to automate the Income Verification Express Services process by creating an Application Programming Interface (API), which would reduce paperwork and the waiting period burdens on borrowers. As part of the loan and mortgage processes for consumers and small businesses, each applicant completes an IRS form called a “4506-T,” which gives the lender the right to access a summarized version of their tax transcript, which is used to confirm certain data points on their application. According to industry reports, this manual process at the IRS takes 2-8 days, which creates needless delay for fintech companies and banks that rely on leveraging data and technology to make faster, informed decision for consumer and small business lending.
07.07.2016	On Friday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) hosted a workshop for local Tenth District law enforcement agencies focusing on the heroin epidemic that has struck communities in western North Carolina and across the nation. The workshop--which was attended by 20 Tenth District law enforcement agencies--was led by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and focused on law enforcement strategies to help combat this epidemic. "The heroin and opioid epidemic has destroyed lives, families, and it threatens our western North Carolina communities," said Congressman McHenry. "This epidemic must be confronted from every angle: awareness of the dangers posed by opioids, preventing access to them, and rehabilitating those suffering from addiction." "Ultimately our law enforcement agencies are the first line of defense in the fight against this epidemic," Congressman McHenry continued. "The workshop provided these agencies with the information and resources they need to lead this important fight. I thank them for attending and for the hard work they do each and every day to keep us safe." At the workshop, Congressman McHenry announced that his office has launched a comprehensive addiction resources page on his website, McHenry.House.Gov. The page includes information on treatment, helplines, and a complete list of drug collection units in the Tenth District. That page can be accessed by clicking here. Friday's workshop was held at the Gaston County Administration Building in downtown Gastonia. Congressman McHenry and Jennifer Kline, a Tenth District resident who lost her brother to opioid addiction, also spoke at the workshop. Click here or on the image below for Time Warner Cable News - Charlotte coverage on the workshop. Additionally you can read about the workshop here courtesy of the Lincoln Times-News. The workshop was attended by 20 Tenth District law enforcement agencies. A full list of the agencies in attendance can be found below: Gaston County Sheriff's Office Gaston County Police Department Lincoln County Sheriff's Office Cramerton Police Department Mount Holly Police Department Conover Police Department Catawba County Sheriff's Office Polk County Sheriff's Office Cleveland County Sheriff's Office Gastonia Police Department Newton Police Department Maiden Police Department Shelby Police Department Lincolnton Police Department Asheville Police Department Buncombe County Anti-Crime Task Force Buncombe County Sheriff's Office Stanley Police Department Hickory Police Department Belmont Police Department Additional photos from Friday's workshop can be found on Congressman McHenry's Facebook page. If you would like to use these photos for stories, please contact Jeff Butler.
07.06.2016	Last night, the House passed Congressman Patrick McHenry's (R, NC-10) eugenics compensation legislation, H.R. 2949 the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act, as part of a larger bill, H.R. 5210, the Patient Access to Durable Medical Equipment (PADME) Act. H.R. 5210 passed the House by a voice vote. “North Carolina’s eugenics program is a sad part of the history of our great state,” said Congressman McHenry. “While we can never fully compensate the victims for the pain they suffered at the hands of the state, this bipartisan bill will at least ensure they are not further penalized for accepting compensation payments they deserve.” H.R. 2949 was included with H.R. 5210 when it passed the House. H.R. 5210 was introduced by Congressman Tom Price (R, GA-06). You can learn more about that bill here. BACKGROUND ON H.R. 2949: During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelming poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits. H.R. 2949's companion legislation in the Senate, S. 1698, which was introduced by North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr passed that chamber by unanimous consent on November 30, 2015. You can read more about its passage here.
07.06.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act by a vote of 422-2: “Mental illness effects hundreds of thousands of Americans and their families including many in western North Carolina. It is a serious medical crisis that for too long has been ignored, leading to premature deaths and unnecessary tragedies. “This afternoon the House took a major step forward by passing the most comprehensive mental health reform bill in years. This legislation makes significant reforms to our nation’s mental health system including increasing the number of psychiatric hospital beds available to treat patients, increasing mental healthcare in small and rural communities, and utilizing innovation to improve the care provided to patients.”
07.05.2016	This evening, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and co-leader of House Republican's Innovation Initiative, had two bills addressing capital formation for small businesses pass the House with wide, bipartisan support. H.R. 4854, the Supporting America's Innovators Act passed the House by a vote of 388 - 9, while H.R. 4855 the Fix Crowdfunding Act passed the House by a vote of 394 - 4. Both bills are part of the Innovation Initiative which was jointly launched by Congressman McHenry and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23). The bills now head to the Senate where they await action. “Small businesses and entrepreneurs are America’s true job creators, especially in communities like those I represent in western North Carolina," said Congressman McHenry. "But today, they face a capital crisis. Small business lending from traditional banks is way down and America’s smallest communities are losing more jobs than they create." “Today, the House passed two bills with strong bipartisan support that begin to confront this crisis," Congressman McHenry continued. "Angel investing and investment crowdfunding are both innovative new forms of capital formation that—in the proper regulatory climate—can become vital tools for entrepreneurs and small businesses. My two bills help to ensure investment crowdfunding and angel investing reach their true potential.” H.R. 4854, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2016 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 to by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 250 persons for qualifying venture capital funds. Congressman McHenry's floor speech in support of H.R. 4854 can be accessed by clicking here or on the image below. The text of H.R. 4854 is available here. H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act amends Title III of the JOBS Act by raising the dollar amount limit and clarifying certain requirements under the Exchange Act 12(g) requirements, and permit single purpose funds to participate in the sale and offer of crowdfunding securities. Congressman McHenry's floor speech in support of H.R. 4855 can be accessed by clicking here or on the image below. The text of H.R. 4855 is available here.
06.23.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling in U.S. v. Texas: “Today’s decision is a victory for our Constitution and the rule of law. Moreover, it marks another stinging defeat for President Obama’s seven year legacy of executive overreach and ‘going it alone’ by ignoring Congress’s role as a co-equal branch of our government. “While today’s decision is a victory, this fight is not over. I find it deeply troubling that half the court would support the President’s lawless executive amnesty, further highlighting the urgent need for a conservative jurist to replace the late Antonin Scalia on our nation’s highest court.”
06.16.2016	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and co-leader of House Republican's Innovation Initiative, had two bills addressing capital formation pass out of the Committee in a bipartisan manner. H.R. 4854, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2016 passed the committee 57 to 2 while H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act passed the Committee 57 to 2. Both bills are part of the Innovation Initiative which was jointly launched by Congressman McHenry and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23). The bills now await action on the House floor. "Today, small businesses--particularly those in rural America--face immense challenges raising capital as traditional lenders have greatly reduced small business lending," said Congressman McHenry. "To confront this challenge, we must harness technology and encourage innovative forms of capital formation to fill the void. Crowdfunding and angel investing are two great examples. I'm encouraged to see both of my bills clear the committee in a bipartisan fashion and am hopeful they will both receive a vote on the House floor soon." H.R. 4854, the Supporting America's Innovators Act of 2016 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 to by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 250 persons for qualifying venture capital funds. You can view McHenry's testimony in support of H.R. 4854 by clicking here. Full text of the bill is available here. H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act amends Title III of the JOBS Act by raising the dollar amount limit and clarifying certain requirements under the Exchange Act 12(g) requirements, and permit single purpose funds to participate in the sale and offer of crowdfunding securities. You can view McHenry's testimony in support of H.R. 4855 by clicking here. Full text of the bill is available here.
06.15.2016	Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) joined with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R, WI-01) and other leaders of the House Republican Conference in rolling out the third plank of House Republican's A Better Way agenda, this one focused on the economy. The plan unveiled yesterday outlines how the economy can be improved by reducing excessive regulations, fostering innovative forms of capital formation, and promoting financial independence for all Americans. The plan was launched during a press conference on the West Lawn of the Capitol Complex. Full video of the press conference can be accessed by clicking here or on the image below. Congressman McHenry's remarks began at the 11:40 mark of the video. The plan unveiled Tuesday is the third plank of A Better Way, a bold agenda to tackle some of our country’s biggest challenges. Last week, Republicans unveiled initiatives aimed at lifting people out of poverty and keeping the American people safe. Our plan—available now at better.gop—is comprised of at least 101 ideas, including: Fewer and smarter regulations. Cut down on needless regulations and make the rules we do need more efficient and effective. More affordable and reliable energy. Connect our energy boom to consumers, responsibly produce more of our own resources, and end needless delays that hold up jobs and projects. More financial independence and no more bailouts. Reward people who work hard and do the right thing, and put an end to Wall Street bailouts. More choices for workers and students. Make it easier for people to excel in schools and workplaces, and rip up the red tape that gets in their way. Real Internet innovation. Establish clear and consumer-friendly rules that prevent the FCC from making up regulations as it goes along. A crack down on lawsuit abuse. Keep trial lawyers in check, and improve protections for consumers and small businesses. These ideas were developed by the Task Force on Reducing Regulatory Burdens, which includes: Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Oversight & Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH), and Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA). About A Better Way A Better Way is a bold policy agenda to address some of the country’s biggest challenges. It takes our timeless principles—liberty, free enterprise, consent of the governed—and applies them to the problems of our time. Developed with input from around the country, it starts the debate now on what we can achieve in 2017 and beyond. It is our vision for a Confident America, at home and abroad. Now we are taking these ideas to the people, so you have a clear choice about the direction of the country. To learn more, visit better.gop.
06.13.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on the terrorist attack on the Orlando, Florida nightclub which occurred early Sunday morning: “I join with the rest of the nation in being shocked and disgusted by the heinous attack in Orlando. My prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of Orlando as they mourn this tragedy. Additionally, I commend the law enforcement and first responders whose quick response saved lives. “In the coming days, we must continue to learn more about the monster who perpetrated this attack, his motives, and his ties to ISIS and radical Islam. This weekend’s attack shows once again these terrorists will stop at nothing to harm America, our people, and the freedoms we hold dear. “The American people have always rallied together in the face of tragedy. This time will be no different.”
06.10.2016	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced eight young men and women from North Carolina's Tenth Congressional District have accepted appointments to our nation's military service academies for the Class of 2020. Each of these students applied for a nomination through Congressman McHenry's office and were interviewed by the Congressman's Military Advisory Committee. "The young men and women who attend our nation's service academies are the best our country has to offer and once again this year, the Tenth District will be well represented at the academies," said Congressman McHenry. "I would like to congratulate each of these eight students on this tremendous achievement. Over the last few months, I've had the opportunity to meet with and talk to each of these students. I'm confident they will be excellent representatives for western North Carolina at the academies and later as leaders of our military." The eight students accepting appointments from Congressman McHenry will be attending either the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Below is a list of all eight students, the names of their parents, the academy they will be attending, their hometowns, and the Tenth District high schools from which they graduated. United States Military Academy at West Point: Daniel Mulcahy of Stanley; graduate of East Lincoln High School, son of Daniel and Teresa Mulcahy United States Naval Academy at Annapolis: Jake Clary of Lincolnton; graduate of West Lincoln High School, son of Brian and Amy Clary Thomas Garbee of Asheville; graduate of Christ School, son of Henry and Sarah Garbee Jamie Honeycutt, Jr. of Stanley; homeschooled, son of Mike and Martha Honeycutt Dillon Lewis of Mt. Holly; graduate of East Gaston High School, son of Melanie and Jeff Abernathy Pia Mackie of Asheville; graduate of Asheville High School, daughter of Tom and Liesbeth Mackie United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs: Hayes Cloninger of Gastonia; graduate of Forestview High School, son of Michael and Brooks Cloninger Stephen Moore of Cramerton; graduate of Stuart W. Cramer High School, son of Michael and Judith Moore Last week, Congressman McHenry held a reception at his Hickory office for each of the Tenth District appointees where the appointees were recognized along with their parents and families. Photos from that ceremony can be found on Congressman McHenry's Facebook page or by clicking here.
06.09.2016	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) spoke on the House floor to pay tribute to Captain Bradley Long, a fallen firefighter from the Tenth District. Video of Congressman McHenry's speech can be accessed by clicking here or on the image below: Bradley Long was a Captain in the Newton Fire Department. He also served as a volunteer with Sherrills Ford-Terrell Fire and Rescue. Captain Long died Monday while attempting to retrieve the body of a drowned swimmer. You can read more about Captain Long here via the Charlotte Observer and here via the Hickory Daily Record.
05.24.2016	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $128,096 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The Fairview Volunteer Fire Department in Buncombe County received the grant which comes in the third round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments apply for the grants through a program administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Fairview Fire Chief Scott Jones indicated that the grant funds will be used to purchase an exhaust ventilation system for one of the department’s substations. Fire engines put out a large amount of exhaust and repeated exposure to those fumes can cause health problems over time. The exhaust removal system eliminates noxious vehicle fumes before they can be released into the vehicle bays and ultimately the rest of the fire station. The grant will also fund the purchase of twenty-five sets of new turnout gear, three thermal imaging cameras and a personnel accountability system for incident command situations. “Our department will be able to make tremendous strides in firefighter safety due to this grant,” said Chief Jones. “All of this gear and equipment will better protect our firefighters as they do their jobs. We appreciate all that Congressman McHenry does to assist the fire service.” “The Fairview VFD’s personnel are true professionals,” stated Congressman McHenry. “This is the second consecutive year they have received an AFG grant which is a testimony not only to the persuasiveness of their grant narratives, but--more importantly--to the dedication of the entire department." A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for Tenth District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, Tenth District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Fairview is both the second Tenth District department and the second Buncombe County department to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2015 cycle bringing the total awarded to Tenth District departments to $237,187. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
05.18.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017: “In our dangerous world where Islamic extremists control broad swathes of the Middle East and hostile regimes like North Korea and Russia threaten global security, America needs a strong military prepared to defend our nation and its assets abroad at a moment’s notice. Yet in recent years our forces have developed a readiness gap that threatens our security and must be addressed. “This evening the House did that with passage of the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. Our bill increases funding to the military by $18 billion above President Obama’s budget request, reforms our outdated acquisition system, and—most importantly—gives our troops a much deserved pay raise. Regrettably, President Obama has threatened to veto this bipartisan measure in an effort to extract more funding for his domestic priorities. I sincerely hope he will reconsider this ill-advised threat and support this bill ensuring that America’s fighting men and women have the resources they need to defend our nation at home and abroad.” BACKGROUND (from the House Republican Conference): H.R. 4909 authorizes and prioritizes funding for the Department of Defense (DoD) and military activities and construction, and prescribes military personnel strengths for Fiscal Year 2017. The bill authorizes $543.4 billion in base funding, an additional $23.1 billion in the Overseas Contingency Operations fund (OCO) for base requirements, and an additional $35.7 billion in the OCO fund to cover contingency operations through April 2017. When factoring in $8.3 billion for mandatory defense spending, a total of $610.5 billion is authorized to be appropriated, which is equal to the President’s overall budget request. Further information is available here and here via the House Armed Services Committee
05.16.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee released the following statement marking today's launch of investment crowdfunding portals: “Five years after I first introduced legislation to legalize investment crowdfunding, today’s opening of portals is a long-overdue but historic step in our efforts to democratize finance and capital formation for all. Today marks a milestone in our efforts to realize the true promise of crowdfunding: allowing the American people to invest in small businesses and innovative ideas they believe in. “But there is still more work to be done. The SEC’s nearly 700-page rule is overly complex and burdensome creating a credibility crisis for investment crowdfunding. If we actually want to see investment crowdfunding realize its full potential, Congress must act. As part of House Republican’s Innovation Initiative, I’ve introduced the Fix Crowdfunding Act which will fix the issue’s posed by the SEC’s rule by allowing investment crowdfunding to achieve its ultimate goal of helping small businesses across the country grow and succeed.” BACKGROUND: Earlier this year, Chief Deputy Whip McHenry introduced H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act. Further information on that legislation can be found here. Financial Times - May 16, 'US crowdfunding launch faces fight over rules' The long-delayed introduction of crowdfunding in the US takes effect on Monday, amid warnings that the new market will be choked by regulation and an attempt by Republican lawmakers to relax the rules. A law change more than four years ago to open up investment in private companies beyond wealthy “accredited” investors was heralded as a breakthrough to allow anyone to back the next generation of tech start-ups. But a protracted review by the Securities and Exchange Commission delayed the new market, as regulators struggled with how to prevent fraud and money-laundering. “The SEC has really created a credibility crisis for crowdfunding,” said Patrick McHenry, the Republican vice-chairman of the House financial services committee, in an interview with the Financial Times. “It’s as if regulators don’t have trust and confidence that this marketplace can work. It seems like they have no trust that we can successfully invest in each other.” READ MORE
05.12.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $109,091 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The Skyland Fire Department in Buncombe County received the grant which comes in the second round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG).The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country.Local departments applied for the grants through a program administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Skyland Fire Chief Dennis Presley indicated that the grant funds would be used to replace the department’s entire stock of turnout gear (between 40-50 sets total).“This grant will be a tremendous help in protecting our firefighters by replacing our turnout gear,” said Chief Presley. “Our current gear it at the end of its useful life and this grant will allow us to replace it with gear that meets all of the latest protection standards.” “It has been my pleasure on two occasions to have visited the Skyland Fire Department,” said Congressman McHenry. “Chief Presley and his team do a great job protecting the lives and property in such a large response area.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process.Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for.The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee.Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Skyland is the first Tenth District department to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2015 cycle.A total of $1,153,914 in AFG funds was awarded to Tenth District departments in the 2014 cycle. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
05.04.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced Lily Reed and Zong Shia Yang as the winners of the Tenth District's 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Lily's work, "Donkey in Lights", was selected as the winner by a panel of judges from across the Tenth District. She is a junior at Gastonia's Gaston Day School where she studies art under teacher Holt Harris. Lily's artwork, seen below, will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. alongside pieces from each of the Congressional districts across the country. By winning the Tenth District's competition, she will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. Again this year, Congressman McHenry's office held a "People's Choice Competition" as part of the Art Competition. The winner of that contest was Zong Shia Yang's work "1976" which can be seen below. Zong is a senior at Maiden High School in Catawba County where she studies art under teacher Cheri Paysour. The "People's Choice Competition" winner was determined by which art work received the most "Likes" on Congressman McHenry's Facebook page. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. This year’s theme was An Artistic Discovery. “I would like to first thank each of the 39 Tenth District students who submitted pieces for this year's competition. The level of interest from Tenth District art students has grown every year but the number of submissions this year surpassed all previous records. Congratulations to Lily and Zong on being chosen as 2016's winners," said Congressman McHenry. The Congressional Art Competition is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please click here.
04.19.2016	Earlier today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) recognized Bobbie Cavnar, the 2016 North Carolina Teacher of the Year during a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Cavnar teaches British literature at South Point High School located in Belmont, NC. Click here or on the image below to see full video of Congressman McHenry's speech: Read more on 2016 North Carolina Teacher of the Year Bobbie Cavnar in the Gaston Gazette and the Charlotte Observer.
04.15.2016	Recently, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee introduced two bills: H.R. 4854, the Supporting America’s Innovators Act of 2016 and H.R. 4855, the Fix Crowdfunding Act. These bills update our securities laws to allow for more Americans to invest in startups, and fix the problems with the SEC’s finalized rule of Title III of the JOBS Act for investment crowdfunding. “America’s economic growth is predicated on entrepreneurs accessing capital, building their businesses, and creating jobs. In the 21st century economy, that's accomplished by harnessing new technology to create networks of people throughout the country who want to see small businesses grow and succeed," said Congressman McHenry. "But as today's entrepreneurs are all too aware, old laws and muddled regulations impede their ability to utilize these new, innovative types of financing. These two bills are small but important steps which will enable capital to get off the sidelines and invested in America’s startups and small businesses. It’s long past time we get Washington out of the way and allow Americans to invest in each other.” On Thursday, Congressman McHenry joined a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee's Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises where he questioned the assembled witnesses about these two bills. Full video of that exchange is available here or can be accessed by clicking the image below: BACKGROUND: The Supporting America’s Innovators Act of 2016 amends an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 to by increasing the investor limitation from 100 to 500 persons for qualifying venture capital funds. Full text is available here. The Fix Crowdfunding Act amends Title III of the JOBS Act by raising the dollar amount limit and clarifying certain requirements and exclusions for crowdfunding portals, including: exempt crowdfunding securities from the Exchange Act 12(g) requirements; define the reasonability requirements for disqualifying issuers; clarify portal liability; allow issuers to “test the waters” to assess investor interest; and permit single purpose funds to participate in the sale and offer of crowdfunding securities. Full text is available here.
04.15.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), who introduced the RPM Act to combat EPA overreach into amateur racing, released the following statement after the EPA withdrew its proposed regulation of amateur racers: “The EPA’s attempt to regulate amateur racers is misguided and unnecessary. Not only is racing a beloved pastime for countless Americans, it also employs millions including many here in western North Carolina. While it's positive to see the EPA react to my legislation, the need for Congressional action on the RPM Act remains. Passing the RPM Act into law is the only way to ensure this ill-advised, job-killing regulation is stopped for good.” BACKGROUND: On March 8th Congressman McHenry joined with Congressman Richard Hudson (R, NC-08) to introduce H.R. 4715 the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016 or "RPM Act" which blocks attempts by the EPA to regulate modified motor vehicles used for racing. On March 15th, Congressman McHenry joined a hearing of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology to discuss the need for the RPM Act. Video of his testimony can be found here. Coverage of the RPM Act's introduction can be found below: The Charlotte Observer - March 9, 'Proposed EPA car-engine rule upsets NASCAR-country congressman Four North Carolina lawmakers in Congress want federal officials to hit the brakes on an anti-pollution regulatory effort that some fear would prevent amateur race-car drivers from modifying motor vehicles’ engines. READ MORE Washington Examiner - March 8, 'New bill would kick EPA out of America's racetracks A small group of House lawmakers has introduced legislation that would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from writing rules to regulate race cars, a move the agency threatened last week. READ MORE WLOS News 13 - March 9, 'Proposed bill could protect race cars from EPA regulation North Carolina congressman Patrick McHenry has proposed a bill that, if passed, could redefine the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s emissions control regulation rules for cars used primarily on race tracks. READ MORE Lincoln Times-News - March 14, 'McHenry drafts legislation against EPA motorsports regulation Two North Carolina congressmen introduced legislation on Monday that would block the Environmental Protection Agency’s ability to regulate modified motor vehicles. READ MORE
03.30.2016	Recently, Congressman Patrick McHenry donated six desks from his former Hickory District office to Asheville's Western Carolina Rescue Ministries. "Western Carolina Rescue Ministry has been serving the underprivileged in our area for 35 years now," said Congressman McHenry. "Reverend Woods and his staff do amazing work helping those facing poverty, homelessness, and addiction throughout western North Carolina. I'm hopeful this donation will help advance those efforts." "The furniture donation has been a blessing to the rescue mission, it came at the exact time we needed it," said Western Carolina Rescue Ministries CEO and Executive Director Reverend Micheal Woods. "We just completed the renovations for our new women’s and children shelter. We needed desk for the office of the overnight women’s supervisor and the security desk. This donations saved us thousands of dollars. Thank You so much. Helping those that are most in need." Western Carolina Rescue Ministry opened in March of 1981 to serve men, women, and children facing poverty, homelessness, or addiction. Their mission is to meet people in crisis and care for them with dignity while restoring them to healthy and productive lives. The General Services Administration allows for items that are no longer needed in an office but are still in good shape, to be transferred out of federal inventory and donated to qualifying non-profit agencies.
03.29.2016	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry joined with Belmont Abbey College to announce the creation of the Capitol and Carolina Internship. This new internship program aims to provide Belmont Abbey students with the opportunity to intern in both McHenry's Washington, DC and Gastonia offices. The internship program will begin this summer. Congressman McHenry will join with Belmont Abbey President Dr. William K. Thierfelder to formally launch the internship this Wednesday, March 30th at 9 AM. The event will be open to the media and will take place at the Alumni House on Belmont Abbey's campus located at 100 Belmont Mt. Holly Road in Belmont. “Having spent time as a Congressional intern, I know first-hand how the experience can shape one’s interest in public policy and service to our nation," said Congressman McHenry. "The opportunity to extend this same experience to current and future students at my alma mater is a truly great honor. I’d like to thank Dr. Thierfelder, Dr. Williams, and everyone at the Abbey for making it possible.” “There’s always a key local/national dynamic in Congress as representatives attend to both the needs of their district and the issues facing the country. By combining service in DC and here in the district, this program lets our Abbey students experience that dynamic first-hand in a truly unique way,” said Dr. David Williams, Belmont Abbey College Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty. “They’ll have both the academic knowledge and the lived experience of public service to learn from. We’re very grateful to Congressman McHenry for the opportunity!” Congressman McHenry and Belmont Abbey College will award the Capitol & Carolina internship to one student each year. The selected student will first intern in McHenry's Washington, DC office during the summer term. The selected student will then intern in McHenry's Gastonia office for the fall term. McHenry’s office will provide a stipend to help defray the cost of living in Washington, DC for the duration of the internship, and Belmont Abbey will waive tuition charges for the internship. Interested students will complete an application and essay which will then be reviewed by a panel made up of Belmont Abbey staff and a representative from McHenry's office.
03.24.2016	Last week, The U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Congressman Patrick McHenry with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of Congressman McHenry's support for pro-jobs, pro-growth policies in the first session of the 114th Congress. This marks the 28th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. "For the last seven years, America's businesses have faced a regulatory onslaught from Washington bureaucrats," said Congressman McHenry. "I have made it my duty to fight back against this overreach and stand with American businesses that employ so many in my district. I'm honored to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of these efforts." “We are pleased to recognize Congressman McHenry for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the first session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 14 Senate votes and 20 House votes, including votes lifting the crude oil export ban, supporting the first long-term transportation law in a decade, and votes to make permanent tax provisions that would have regularly expired. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
03.22.2016	Recently, Congressman Patrick McHenry donated office furnishings from his former Hickory District office to the Greater Hickory Cooperative Christian Ministry (GHCCM). The items donated include multiple desks, sofas, conference chairs, a conference table, a monitor, and lamps. "Greater Hickory Cooperative Christian Ministry does important work serving the underprivileged in Hickory and throughout Catawba County," said Congressman McHenry. "I have no doubt these donations will be put to good use by CHCCM helping to further advance their mission of assisting those in need here in western North Carolina." "Greater Hickory Cooperative Christian Ministry is so grateful for the beautiful pieces of furniture donated by Congressman McHenry and his office," said GHCCM Executive Director Barbara Rush Early. "Staff and clients alike appreciate the generous donation. GHCCM used some of the pieces to furnish our SOARR (Services, Outreach, Advocacy, Resources and Referral) Center which is available to our clients to access needed social services on-site. Thank you Congressman McHenry for your hard work, consideration and dedication to our ministry and our community." The mission of the Greater Hickory Cooperative Christian Ministry is to offer hope, help, and healing to those in most need through service, advocacy, and community support. The General Services Administration allows for items that are no longer needed in an office but are still in good shape, to be transferred out of federal inventory and donated to qualifying non-profit agencies.
03.17.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H. Res. 639 authorizing House Speaker Paul Ryan (R, WI-01) to file an amicus brief on behalf of the House in the Supreme Court case United States vs. Texas, which addresses the President's executive actions on immigration: “While I remain vehemently opposed to the President’s executive amnesty, today’s vote is not about immigration policy but rather about reasserting Congress’ powers as defined by Article I of the Constitution. Throughout his presidency, President Obama has displayed a blatant disregard for the separation of powers and has willfully ignored Congress’ role as a co-equal branch of our government. Today’s vote ensures Congress will have a voice in this hugely important case.”
03.15.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) today testified about the RPM Act, his recently introduced legislation combating EPA overreach into motorsports, before the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology's Oversight Subcommittee. Full video of his testimony at the hearing entitled 'Racing to Regulate: EPA's Latest Overreach on Amateur Drivers' can be found here or by clicking the image below. On March 8th, Chief Deputy Whip McHenry joined with Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-08) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) in introducing H.R. 4715, the RPM Act. You can learn more about the bill here. Further coverage of the bill's introduction can be found below. The Charlotte Observer - March 9, 'Proposed EPA car-engine rule upsets NASCAR-country congressman Four North Carolina lawmakers in Congress want federal officials to hit the brakes on an anti-pollution regulatory effort that some fear would prevent amateur race-car drivers from modifying motor vehicles’ engines. READ MORE Washington Examiner - March 8, 'New bill would kick EPA out of America's racetracks A small group of House lawmakers has introduced legislation that would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from writing rules to regulate race cars, a move the agency threatened last week. READ MORE WLOS News 13 - March 9, 'Proposed bill could protect race cars from EPA regulation North Carolina congressman Patrick McHenry has proposed a bill that, if passed, could redefine the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s emissions control regulation rules for cars used primarily on race tracks. READ MORE Lincoln Times-News - March 14, 'McHenry drafts legislation against EPA motorsports regulation Two North Carolina congressmen introduced legislation on Monday that would block the Environmental Protection Agency’s ability to regulate modified motor vehicles. READ MORE
03.08.2016	Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 4715, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016 or "RPM Act" which blocks attempts by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate modified motor vehicles used for racing. Joining McHenry as an original cosponsor of the RPM Act is Congressman Richard Hudson (R, NC-08). For decades, automotive enthusiasts have modified street vehicles into race cars used exclusively at closed race tracks. Recently, the EPA has issued a proposed rule that would make it illegal for this practice to continue via the Clean Air Act. However, Congress never intended for race cars to be subject to the Clean Air Act. The RPM Act would simply confirm that race cars are exempt from EPA regulation via the Clean Air Act. "The EPA has placed onerous regulations on nearly every aspect of our economy--from energy production to agriculture--and now they are coming after Americans' hobbies. For years my constituents have been free to modify vehicles for competitive use on closed tracks without government interference. The RPM Act will ensure that continues by blocking this EPA overreach allowing motorsports enthusiasts in North Carolina and across the country to continue this time-honored tradition," said Congressman McHenry. “Regulations that waste our money, time and resources are bad for jobs, but the EPA is going one step further to restrict our personal freedom. Even if I didn’t represent Charlotte Motor Speedway and a whole lot of racing enthusiasts, I would be outraged by this ridiculous government overreach. This legislation is a critical step to protect the way of life for many and ensure the future of racing. We’re not just going to sound the alarm on this – we’re going to stop it," said Congressman Hudson. “The EPA’s new interpretation of the Clean Air Act would essentially rewrite the law and 46 years of policy and practice,” said Chris Kersting, President and CEO of the Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA). “Without congressional intervention, the racing community and racing parts manufacturers would be operating outside of that new law and could be targeted for enforcement. SEMA thanks Representatives McHenry, Cuellar and Hudson for introducing this bill." BACKGROUND: The Clean Air Act authorizes the EPA to regulate motor vehicles but these regulations have never applied to race cars. In 1990, Congress affirmed this exemption when it authorized the EPA to regulate “nonroad vehicles” and explicitly excluded any “vehicle used solely for competition” from the nonroad definition. Despite the clear intent of Congress, the EPA's proposed rule attempts to amend the Clean Air Act. H.R. 4715 simply confirms that it would not be considered tampering to modify these vehicles for exclusive track use. Converting a motor vehicle into a racecar is a significant part of American automotive heritage with the practice having played a large role in the foundation of NASCAR. Additionally, the specialty automotive industry employs over 1 million Americans. Companies that manufacture, distribute, and sell products that improve race vehicle performance are a large and growing part of our economy.
03.06.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan: "Giulia and I are saddened to learn of Mrs. Reagan's passing. She was a lady of true grace and dignity who served as a towering presence during her time as First Lady. The only comfort of her passing is the knowledge she is now reunited with her beloved husband. Our prayers are with the Reagan family as they mourn their loss."
02.23.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after President Obama announced plans to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay: “Time and again Congress has passed—and President Obama has signed into law—legislation blocking the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to American soil. Yet today President Obama announced a nearly half a billion dollar plan to bring these hardened terrorists to our shores. “Fortunately for the American people—particularly those in the communities mentioned in the proposal—this plan is in violation of federal law and bipartisan majorities in Congress will work to stop it. Rather than attempting to fulfill a campaign promise which will make us less safe, President Obama should be focused on real national security threats like ISIS’ expansion into Africa and North Korea’s continued efforts to obtain a nuclear weapon.”
02.13.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after learning of the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: "I am shocked and saddened to learn of Justice Scalia's passing. One of the greatest legal minds in our nation's history, Justice Scalia will be remembered for his steadfast defense of the Constitution and exceptional wit. He was a true patriot who will be deeply missed. Giulia and I send our prayers to Maureen and their nine children as they mourn their tremendous loss."
02.10.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, questioned Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen on whether the Fed has legal authority to pursue negative interest rates. In her response, Chair Yellen acknowledged the Federal Reserve has not yet established if it is legal to pursue negative rates. Click here or on the image below to see full video of the exchange:
02.09.2016	Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry donated office furnishings from his former Hickory District office to the The Shelter of Gaston County. The items donated--which include two wingback chairs, a bookcase, and an end table--have been a part of the Congressman's Hickory office since his election and were passed down to the Congressman by his predecessor, Congressman Cass Ballenger. "As my Hickory office relocated, we found ourselves with excess furniture and I'm happy to see it put to good use," said Congressman McHenry. "The Shelter of Gaston County does tremendous work on behalf of victims of domestic violence in our area and I'm hopeful this donation will be helpful as they continue their important work in the future." "The Shelter Staff and I are honored to accept these historic pieces of furniture," said Cathy Cloninger, the Coordinator of the Shelter of Gaston County. "They stand as a representation of services to our community by our elected officials. We appreciate Congressman McHenry, our local organizations, and the citizens of Gaston County for their continuous support." The mission of The Shelter of Gaston County is to empower victims of domestic violence by providing emergency shelter, advocacy, and support on their journey to an abuse free life; and to lead the community in raising awareness of domestic violence and its devastating consequences. The shelter is operated by the Gaston County government. The General Services Administration allows for items that are no longer needed in an office but are still in good shape, to be transferred out of federal inventory and donated to qualifying non-profit or local government agencies. The wingback chairs donated by Congressman McHenry were first used by Congressman Jim Broyhill who represented the 10th District in Congress from 1969-1986.
02.05.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry applauded House passage of H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2015 which ends Operation Choke Point. While serving as the Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in 2014, Congressman McHenry led efforts to bring Obama Administration officials before Congress to answer as to why legal businesses were being targeted. “Operation Choke Point was a thinly-veiled effort by the Obama Administration to target legal businesses—such as retailers of firearms and ammunition—with which they philosophically disagree. Yesterday, the House voted to bring this illegal program to an end," said Congressman McHenry. “Having chaired the first Congressional hearing that examined Operation Choke Point, today is an important day. With passage of H.R. 766, never again will Washington bureaucrats possess the power to manipulate the banking system and threaten the livelihood of legal businesses they don’t like.” Operation Choke Point was an effort led by the Department of Justice (DOJ) along with the FDIC, Federal Reserve, and OCC which targeted financing for so-called 'high-risk' industries. Based on Congressional reports and documents produced by the DOJ it is clear Operation Choke Point led to banks terminating relationships with a wide variety of legal merchants including pawn shops and gun and ammunition merchants. On July 15, 2014 Congressman McHenry chaired a hearing of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee entitled "The Department of Justice's 'Operation Choke Point'" which examined Choke Point. Testifying at the hearing were representatives from the DOJ, Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC. Additional information on the hearing is available here. H.R. 766 includes reforms to bring greater transparency to federal oversight of banks. It prevents federal regulators from abusing executive power by preventing legitimate businesses from using depository institutions. It additionally requires federal regulators provide justification in writing of any request to terminate a customer account except in instances of threats to national security.
02.04.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry was recently presented with an award from the American Conservative Union (ACU) recognizing his conservative voting record in 2014. Congressman McHenry, who enjoys a lifetime conservative rating of 95.2% from the ACU, was presented with the Conservative Achievement Award in his Washington office by ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. "I'm honored to again this year receive the ACU's Conservative Achievement Award," said Congressman McHenry. "As a lifelong believer in the conservative principles of small government and individual rights, I've worked tirelessly during my time in Congress to advance these causes and my voting record reflects that." Matt Schlapp, Chairman of the ACU said,“I have known Congressman McHenry for many years, personally and professionally, and he is a solid conservative leader in the House of Representatives, as reflected by his lifetime ACU rating of over 95%. This year was no different as we again presented him with our Conservative Achievement Award recognizing his continued work to reduce the size and scope of our government." For almost five decades ACU has published what is known as the “gold standard” for congressional ratings. The ACU Conservative Achievement Award is given to Members of Congress who receive at least an 80% ACU rating during the last year. McHenry scored an 88% in 2014, but has an ACU lifetime average of 95.2%, the second highest rating for any member of North Carolina's Congressional delegation. The average ACU rating for all U.S. Representatives in the 113th Congress was 44.6%. In addition to the congressional ratings, ACU is the host of the annual CPAC conference, which last year was the 3rd most widely covered media event (following the Super Bowl and the State of the Union Address).
02.02.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee joined with Washington, DC-based incubator 1776 to host a roundtable discussion between Members of Congress and fintech entrepreneurs. The discussion focused on regulatory challenges facing the fintech industry and what policy makers in Congress can do to reduce these barriers. "Today's event provided my colleagues and I the unique opportunity to hear directly from fintech entrepreneurs about the challenges they face," said Congressman McHenry. "The companies we heard from today are revolutionizing the way we donate to charities, save for college, and shop for mortgages but Washington regulations are getting in their way. Thank you to 1776 for facilitating this constructive discussion about what can be done to reduce these barriers." The fintech companies that joined today's discussion are all member institutions at 1776. Fintech or financial technology companies use software to provide financial services which--in the past--would have been provided by traditional financial institutions like banks or credit unions. Among the companies that joined today's discussion were the founders of payments platform GoodWorld which seeks to make donating to charities as simple as a tweet or Facebook post that includes '#donate,' online mortgage marketplace Myolo, and two companies--Leaf College Savings and MPOWER--which are revolutionizing the way families and students save for college. Also participating were executives from Beyonic & GradFin. Joining Congressman McHenry for today's roundtable were Congressman Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15), Congresswoman Mimi Walters (CA-45), and Congressman Kevin Yoder (KS-03).
02.02.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House vote to override President Obama's veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 which repealed Obamacare and cut federal funding to Planned Parenthood: “In January, Congressional Republicans sent an important message to the American people when we sent a full repeal of Obamacare and defunding of Planned Parenthood to President Obama’s desk. We showed that—with a new President—it is possible to ditch this broken law and with it all of the disastrous policies which have driven up costs and reduced the quality of healthcare for so many Americans. At the same time, we can save taxpayers the half a billion dollars currently being sent to Planned Parenthood. “While today’s veto override vote failed, it is important to remember what can be accomplished once President Obama leaves office. I remain fully committed to repealing Obamacare and defunding Planned Parenthood and their heinous acts. Congress has now demonstrated each of these can be achieved in a year’s time.”
02.02.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act: “When advocating for the Iranian nuclear agreement, President Obama committed to maintaining all non-nuclear sanctions on the Iranian regime. In the months since, this has proven to be untrue and there remains no law that prevents the Administration from further lifting sanctions. “The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act changes that. With passage of this bill, the Obama Administration is blocked from offering sanctions relief to any Iranian banks or other entities that conduct business with terrorist organizations including the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), Hamas, and Hezbollah. “In light of the regime’s recent missile tests and the capture and detention of ten US Sailors, it is imperative President Obama sign this bill into law and show the Iranian regime that their continued hostile acts will not be tolerated.”
01.29.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced submission deadlines for the 2016 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. The winning artwork from each congressional district will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The “Grand Prize” winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries will be judged by a panel, and one winner will be selected. Artwork be submitted electronically to Joe Bost of Congressman McHenry's Gastonia office. The deadline to submit the artwork is April 15, 2016. Once all artwork has been received, submissions will be posted on the Congressman's Facebook page and users can share their thoughts on the work by liking their favorites. “Over the last few years interest in the Congressional Art Competition has boomed in the 10th District,” said Congressman McHenry. "We've seen record entries and impressive works from students throughout the district. I'm hopeful this year will be more of the same." The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit mchenry.house.gov.
01.22.2016	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that his Hickory district office is moving to a new location. The new Hickory district office will be located at 1990 Main Avenue, SE, Hickory, NC 28602 in the same building as the NC Center for Engineering Technologies and the NC Small Business and Technology Development Center. The new office will open Wednesday, January 27th and maintain the same hours as the previous location, 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM. "This move allows my district staff to continue serving the needs of Tenth District constituents," said Congressman McHenry. "Coupled with my offices in Gastonia and Black Mountain, Tenth District residents are well served should they have issues with or questions for the federal government." Tenth District constituents can visit the Hickory office for assistant with casework issues relating to federal agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security, and the Internal Revenue Service. The Congressman's district staff is also available to assist with federal grant applications, assistance with obtaining passports, and information on nominations to service academies. The new location will maintain the same phone (828-327-6100) and fax numbers (828-327-8311) as the previous location. Additionally, the mailing address will remain the same as before, P.O. Box 1830, Hickory, NC 28603. Because of the move, the Hickory office will be closed on Monday, January 25th and Tuesday, January 26th. Constituents needing assistance should contact Congressman McHenry's Gastonia office at 704-833-0096.
01.12.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's final State of the Union address: “The speech we heard tonight was not the speech the American people were looking for. Today, we awoke to news of a terrorist attack in Turkey targeting German tourists and ended the day with news of U.S. sailors taken into custody by Iran. What the American people want is a plan to defeat the threat posed by radical Islamic terror and confront the bellicose actions of rogue regimes like Iran and North Korea. Instead, we heard a victory lap. “The American people want leadership, not rhetoric. It is no wonder 70% of Americans believe our nation is headed in the wrong direction. After seven years, it is clear our nation is in need of new ideas and new leadership. Throughout his final year in office, House Republicans will paint a clear contrast to the failed policies of President Obama. We will outline a governing vision aimed at empowering the American people and highlighting American exceptionalism at home and abroad.”
01.06.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House concurred with the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act which sends a full repeal of Obamacare to President Obama's desk: “This evening the House upheld our commitment to the American people and sent a full repeal of Obamacare to President Obama’s desk. This law has not worked. For my constituents in Western North Carolina it has meant higher costs, less access, and inferior care. It is time we start over. “This reconciliation bill fully repeals Obamacare, saving taxpayers over $500 billion. It cuts all federal funding to Planned Parenthood, ensuring our tax dollars never again fund their horrific acts. Most importantly, it provides an opportunity to start over so we can provide the American people real healthcare reform that lowers costs and improves care. “Now President Obama must decide, he can continue to defend this disastrous law or he can provide the American people relief they have sought from this failing policy.”
01.05.2016	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after President Barack Obama's announcement of new executive actions to limit the sale of firearms: “This morning we’ve once again seen a President more committed to flouting the Constitution and expanding his executive powers than seriously addressing our nation’s problems. The executive actions President Obama announced today would do nothing to address the recent tragedies we’ve experienced and instead are more likely to target law-abiding Americans exercising their Constitutionally protected rights. “Rather than infringing on the Second Amendment and legislating by executive fiat, this Administration should instead focus on actually enforcing the laws currently on the books to prevent violent criminals from obtaining firearms, and seriously address the root cause of many of these tragedies: mental illness.”
12.18.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House passed the consolidated appropriations bill by a vote of 316 to 113: “Today, the House passed a bipartisan government funding bill which will help grow our economy and keep Americans safe. The bill passed today repeals the 1970s-era oil export ban, allowing us to fully realize the potential of our booming domestic energy industry. It reins in out of control federal bureaucrats at the IRS and EPA by freezing funding and staffing levels. “This bill keeps us safe from threats both domestically and abroad. It reverses the sequester’s draconian cuts to our military and strengthens the Visa Waiver Program, requiring any individual who has travelled to terrorist hot spots be properly screened before coming to the US. “Additionally it includes no new funding for Obamacare, prevents a taxpayer bailout of the law’s risk corridor program, and ensures no taxpayer funding for abortion. While not perfect, this bill keeps our government funded and allows Congress to return to regular order in the new year.”
12.18.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on passage of the consolidated appropriations bill and, more specifically, Title VII which terminates the Making Home Affordable Initiative effective December 31, 2016: “For more than four years, I have been front and center in trying to help homeowners and protect the American taxpayer by ending President Obama’s wasteful and failed mortgage modification program. I am pleased to say that day has finally arrived. “With passage of today's consolidated appropriations bill, Congress has finally ended the Home Affordable Mortgage Program (HAMP), which harmed the very people it was intended to help: those who were struggling to keep their homes after the financial crisis. While I would prefer the money saved by eliminating the program be put towards reducing our deficit, I am grateful that we have finally acknowledged HAMP for what it is: a failed government program that hurt those in need.” BACKGROUND: On February 28, 2011 Chief Deputy Whip McHenry introduced H.R. 839, the HAMP Termination Act of 2011, to end the HAMP program. On March 29th of that year, H.R. 839 passed the House on a bipartisan vote of 252-170-1.
12.17.2015	Washington-- Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act: “Americans have long sought clarity and certainty when it comes to our tax code and today the House provided just that with passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act. This bill is a victory for both families and small businesses. It provides families with greater tax savings by making permanent important individual deductions while also enabling businesses to grow by incentivizing them to reinvest in new equipment. “Additionally our bill includes a two year moratorium on Obamacare’s job-killing medical device tax and protects Americans from IRS abuse. Most importantly, this bill sets the stage for what our tax code truly needs: a comprehensive rewrite that simplifies the code and lowers rates across the board.” BACKGROUND- The PATH Act includes a number of provisions to lower the tax burden on individuals and small businesses. Included in the legislation are: Corporate Provisions • Research and development (R&D) credit – Allows a company to deduct from their tax liability the amount of their R&D expenditures. • Section 179 - Allows businesses to deduct the full purchase price of qualifying equipment and/or software purchased or financed during the tax year. • Employer wage credit for employees on active duty - Employers receive a tax credit of 20% on wages paid, up to $20,000 for a maximum credit of $4,000, for the time the employee is on active duty. Individual Provisions • Deduction for teacher classroom expenses – Allows a teacher to deduct from their income tax liability any classroom supplies they personally furnished. • 100% Exclusion on gains from the sale of small business stock – Money earned from the sale of small business stocks is exempted from federal income taxes Charitable Donations • Food inventory deduction – Allows individuals to deduct the cost of food purchased and donated to food banks. • IRA charitable rollover - Allows you to deduct charitable donations from your IRA Program Integrity Requirements The bill includes reforms to ensure the integrity of the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, and the American Opportunity Credit. These reforms would prohibit an individual from making retroactive claims for any of these credits for any year in which the individual, or, in the case of the CTC, the child, did not have a social security number for the purposes of the EITC, or an IRS taxpayer identification number for the purposes of the CTC or AOC. These reforms are intended to ensure that no illegal immigrant can utilize these credits. Tax Administration Provisions The bill includes a number of provisions intended to better protect taxpayers from abuse and ensure IRS employees are acting in compliance with the law and in the best interest of the taxpayers. Medical Device Tax Moratorium Section 174 would impose a two-year moratorium (through calendar year 2017) of the Obamacare 2.3% medical device excise tax.
12.16.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the Federal Reserve's decision to raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2006: “Today’s decision by the Federal Reserve serves as an important reminder that the ‘how’ and ‘why’ are as important as ‘when’ the Fed decides to raise rates. Year after year, the Federal Reserve and the Obama Administration have over-promised and under delivered in terms of cutting the debt, strengthening the economy, and promoting jobs. Meanwhile, Dodd-Frank has created a new framework under which it is now harder for firms to mitigate risk and provide liquidity to the stressed capital markets. While I appreciate the Fed’s return to a more normalized rate, I fear that the Fed is far too worried about when to raise rates, rather than addressing the failed policies that got us here."
12.10.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to recognize two Gaston County institutions celebrating milestone anniversaries this year. McHenry first recognized Belmont's Holy Angels of North Carolina which is celebrating its 60th anniversary this year. McHenry then recognized Gastonia's Tony's Ice Cream which is celebrating their 100th anniversary this year. Complete video of Congressman McHenry's remarks can be accessed here or by clicking the image below.
12.09.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed S. 1698, The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act, by unanimous consent during their business meeting this morning: “Today’s news is a positive development in our continued efforts to right the wrongs committed during this shameful period of our state’s history. We can never fully repay the victims of this horrific program but our legislation at least ensures they are not victimized again. I’d like to thank Chairman Chaffetz and members of the Oversight Committee for their swift action on my bill. I look forward to seeing this important legislation come to the House floor early next year.” On July 8th, Congressman McHenry along with Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D, NC-01) introduced the House companion legislation to S. 1698, H.R. 2949 also titled The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. The legislation passed the Senate by unanimous consent on November 30th. Following approval by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform the legislation now moves on to be considered by the full House. Further Background: During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelming poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits.
12.08.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015: “Last week’s attack in California was yet another tragic illustration of the grave threat posed by radical Islamic terror and the urgent need for action to protect our homeland. Today, the House continued that effort by passing H.R. 158 which addresses glaring vulnerabilities in our Visa Waiver Program (VWP). “The VWP is a well-intentioned program, designed to support our tourism industry by allowing visitors from our closest allies abroad to travel here more easily. However—like many government programs—it includes loopholes and vulnerabilities that radical jihadists could seek to exploit in order to attack our homeland. Our bipartisan bill makes sensible reforms to address these vulnerabilities such as requiring those who have traveled to terrorist hot spots to obtain visas and allowing the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security to alter the list of participating countries and those that require greater scrutiny. “Today’s legislation is but a first step and House Republicans remain fully committed to doing all in our power to confront the threat of ISIL and ensure all Americans can live without fear for their safety.”
11.19.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015: “Throughout our history, no country has done more to assist the innocent bystanders to foreign conflicts than the United States. However—as evidenced by the horrific attacks in Paris—the grave danger posed by ISIL and Islamic extremism require a reevaluation of our strategy. “With passage of the SAFE Act, the House has taken an important step towards ensuring all refugees brought to the United States are properly vetted and certified by not just law enforcement but also our intelligence community. It is a common sense step to protect our homeland and provide safety to all Americans. “In spite of the SAFE Act’s bipartisan support, President Obama has threatened a veto. This is regrettable but not surprising from a leader who has consistently shown he would rather disparage political opponents than present a realistic strategy to defeat ISIL and the global threat posed by radical Islam.”
11.17.2015	This afternoon, the ten Republican members of North Carolina's U.S. House of Representatives delegation released the following statement in response to Friday's terrorist attacks in Paris and Governor Pat McCrory's request that the Obama Administration cease sending Syrian refugees to North Carolina. The joint statement was issued by Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (NC-2), Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3), Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (NC-5), Congressman Mark Walker (NC-6), Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7), Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-8), Congressman Robert Pittenger (NC-9), Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Congressman Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Congressman George Holding (NC-13). “Last Friday we were horrified to watch the terrorist attacks unfold in Paris. To see innocent lives taken by a group of radical Islamic terrorists was sickening and our prayers go out to all those impacted by this unspeakable tragedy. “In the days since, we have been deeply troubled to learn one of the terrorists who committed this atrocity may have come to Europe posing as a Syrian refugee. With the massive influx of Syrian refugees to Europe, this was always a threat and, regrettably, now it’s been realized. “Given this development we have serious concerns about the ongoing resettlement of Syrian refugees to the communities we represent across North Carolina. As a delegation, we join with Governor McCrory in calling for the Obama Administration to immediately cease sending Syrian refugees to our state. We believe this is a common sense step and applaud Governor McCrory for his leadership on the issue. “The Paris attacks highlighted that ISIL is not contained and still poses a grave threat to Western Democracies. Blocking the flow of Syrian refugees until we can better understand and address security risks they may pose is a necessary step to protect our state and homeland.”
11.06.2015	Washington-- Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after President Obama's announcement that he would reject the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Today’s announcement from President Obama is disappointing but not particularly surprising. Throughout his second term, we have seen President Obama cater to his liberal base at the expense of the American people. Rejection of the Keystone pipeline is simply the latest example. Rather than grant approval for a job-creating project that John Kerry’s State Department has declared environmentally safe, President Obama has decided instead to appease the radical environmentalists on the left. It is my sincere hope this project can be revived in 2017 when—hopefully—we will have a President who understands the concerns of the vast majority of Americans: reducing energy prices and creating jobs.”
11.05.2015	Washington--Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015: “This week marked the beginning of a new era in the People’s House, one in which every member has the chance to have their voice heard. Today, after consideration of 126 amendments and three days of debate, we see the first product: passage of a robust, fiscally responsible highway bill that will improve our nation’s infrastructure and reform the federal programs that provide for it. “Many of the bridges and roads in Western North Carolina are in desperate need of repair, with recent studies showing 20% of our highways in poor condition. Our bill cuts red tape that has slowed these restorations and empowers those who know the problems best—the individual states and local governments instead of Washington bureaucrats. Safe and efficient transportation ultimately allows the costs for goods and services to remain low, while enabling businesses to remain competitive. This legislation will have a positive impact on the lives of all Americans who use our nation’s roads and bridges every day.” NOTE- Below is a list of reforms included in the House-passed, six-year highway bill. Also included in the bill via amendment was H.R. 1839, the RAISE Act which was introduced by Congressman McHenry and initially passed the House on October 6th. Full details on the RAISE Act are available here. Promotes private investment in our surface transportation system Streamlines the bureaucratic process to complete transportation projects. Expedites the environmental review and permitting process and increases coordination between federal, state, and local agencies. Eliminates duplicative regulatory processes and offices within the Department of Transportation. Provides more flexibility and decision-making to states and local governments to allow them to better address their priorities and needs Block grants the Surface Transportation Program (STP) to provide flexibility for states and local governments. Increases STP funding for local governments from 50% to 55% during the life of the reauthorization. The Surface Transportation Program (STP) provides flexible funding that may be used by States and localities for projects to preserve and improve the conditions and performance on any Federal-aid highway, bridge and tunnel projects on any public road, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, and transit capital projects, including intercity bus terminals. Provides flexibility to states to target driver safety grants on their pressing safety needs Accelerates implementation of safety regulations for buses and trucks and prioritizes grants for programs that train veterans. Strengthens safety for transport of hazardous materials and emergency preparedness and response.
11.04.2015	Washington-- Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Howard Coble: "Giulia and I are saddened to learn our dear friend Howard Coble has passed away. Howard was the embodiment of what a Congressman should be: a dedicated public servant who was deeply committed to serving his constituents in North Carolina's 6th District. "Personally, Howard was a dear friend, invaluable mentor, and someone you could always count on for a laugh. I was honored to call him my Dean and Howard embraced that responsibility, serving as a leader to all who have had the honor of representing our great state in Washington. "As we mourn Howard’s passing, Giulia and I send our thoughts and prayers to the people of North Carolina’s 6th District, Howard’s family, and all of Howard’s former staffers who saw firsthand each day what an honorable and decent gentleman he was. My Dean, you will be missed." Last November, Congressman McHenry joined other members of North Carolina's Congressional delegation in celebrating Congressman Coble's service on the House floor. Video of Congressman McHenry's remarks can be found here.
10.29.2015	Washington - Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on the election of Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan: “Paul Ryan has long been one of the leading voices within our Conference. As Chair of the Budget Committee he highlighted the urgent need to address our nation’s exploding debt and displayed the political courage to actually tackle the problem. His budget agreements outlined a path to reforming the entitlement programs that serve as the principal drivers of our debt and outlined a path to balance within ten years. “As Ways and Means Chair, Paul continued to be a champion of entitlement reform and began laying the ground work for fixing our nation’s broken tax code. Throughout his career he has served as leading messenger within our Conference, promoting our conservative message against the disastrous liberal policies that have defined the Obama years and harmed so many Americans. “Paul will bring a different perspective to the Speaker’s Chair. He will be our youngest Speaker in nearly 150 years and one of the few with school-aged children. In this regard he uniquely represents our Conference—one increasingly made up of working moms and dads—but also the vast majority of American families. His service is proof you can be both committed to your family and also a leader for our nation. “The recent months have been challenging for all House Republicans but today marks a new beginning. I’m confident Paul has what it takes to unite and lead our Conference, reform the way the People’s House operates, and present a clear, conservative governing vision we will all be proud to support.”
10.28.2015	Washington - Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “Today’s agreement is not perfect but represents meaningful progress in a divided government. It includes important reforms to our nation’s entitlement programs including the first structural reform to Social Security since President Reagan was in office—a change that maintains the solvency of the Social Security Disability program while also attacking the fraud and abuse plaguing the program. It also protects our seniors from an increase in their Medicare Part B premiums and protects American workers by repealing Obamacare’s costly auto-enrollment mandate. “Additionally, this agreement provides vital funding increases for our troops and national security. Most importantly, all of this is accomplished without raising taxes. “With passage of this agreement we’ve also instituted greater certainty within our appropriations process. The authorized spending levels allow the House a return to regular order, ensuring each of our twelve appropriations bills come to the House floor where all 435 members will have the opportunity to amend them as they see fit.”
10.23.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom and Reconciliation Act of 2015: “When the American people returned Republicans to power in Congress, we committed to doing everything within our power to dismantle President Obama’s disastrous healthcare law. Today’s vote continues that effort. “This vital legislation targets Obamacare’s egregious and excessive mandates which have harmed Western North Carolinians the most. With passage of this reconciliation bill we fully repeal the law’s individual and employer mandates, we stop the job-killing medical device tax, and end a number of the law’s other mandates. Additionally, our bill redirects funding away from Planned Parenthood and instead devotes it to community health centers like those serving my constituents in the 10th District. “Now this legislation moves to the Senate. It is my sincere hope our colleagues on the other side of the Capitol will act quickly to pass this bill and send it to President Obama’s desk. Then it will be up to President Obama to decide whether he wants to continue to defend his broken law or instead offer the American people the much-needed relief they deserve.” Further information on H.R. 3762 can be found here courtesy of the House Committee on the Budget.
10.06.2015	This evening, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the House passed his legislation, H.R. 1839 the Reforming Access for Investments in Startup Enterprises Act of 2015 or RAISE Act: "While secondary markets have the potential to serve as an excellent source of capital for our nation's entrepreneurs and investors, the lack of liquidity in these markets has limited their impact. The RAISE Act changes that. By making these small, technical fixes my bill will open up our secondary markets, allowing them to be used as a valuable tool for small and emerging companies." Congressman McHenry first introduced the RAISE Act on April 17th at which time it was referred to the House Financial Services Committee. On July 29th, the RAISE Act was unanimously passed out of the Committee by a vote of 58-0. It cleared the full House this evening by a vote of 404 to 0. Earlier this afternoon, Congressman McHenry spoke in support of the RAISE Act on the House floor. Video of his speech can be found here. BACKGROUND: The RAISE Act of 2015 amends the Securities Act of 1933 to include Section 4(a)(7) with the existing Rule 4(a)(1 ½) legal framework for transactions involving the secondary markets. Rule 4(a)(1 ½) was developed from case law by creating a federal exemption for the resale of restricted securities in a private placement. Currently, a holder of securities issued in a private placement may resell the securities on a public trading market, after a holding period, pursuant to Rule 144. However, there is not a similar codified law for private resale of restricted securities. Accordingly, this bill codifies a clear and established legal framework for these transactions to facilitate private company capital formation.
09.25.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the resignation of House Speaker John Boehner (R, OH-08): “John has served the people’s House with great honor and distinction for over two decades, including the last five years in the often thankless role as Speaker. During this time he has shown tremendous leadership holding the line against the Obama Administration’s destructive policies while also achieving meaningful, conservative reforms to our spending and entitlement programs. John has been a tremendous servant to this institution, Ohio’s 8th District, and the American people and he will be sorely missed. I wish John and Debbie the best in this next phase of their life.”
09.18.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act and H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Act: “Over the past nine weeks the American public have again learned the truth about Planned Parenthood. Videos depicting the group’s callous disregard for human life are disgusting, horrific but, sadly, not surprising. This group—which devotes 94% of its pregnancy services to abortions—must be completely defunded now. “Today the House took action to do just that with passage of Congresswoman Black’s bill cutting all federal funding to Planned Parenthood and redirecting those funds to community health centers. Additionally the House acted on legislation ensuring that any baby who survives an attempted abortion is provided the life-saving care they need to survive. “Coupled with legislation from May which stops abortions after 20 weeks, today’s action in the House highlights our unyielding commitment to defending life. There is no greater gift in the world and it must be protected at all costs.”
09.11.2015	Washington - Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after today's House of Representatives votes on President Obama's nuclear deal with Iran: “Today, I joined with a bipartisan majority in the House to vote against President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran and also to block his Administration from lifting the—to this point successful—economic sanctions on the Iranian regime. “In mid-July when the nuclear deal with Iran was first agreed to, I expressed serious reservations. I was shocked we would provide immediate sanctions relief to the Iranian regime and—in return—receive no concrete guarantees of third-party inspections or access to alleged nuclear sites. In the time since, the deal only looks worse. We have learned about secret side deals and seen continued bellicose rhetoric from Iranian leaders who would rather destroy our nation than work constructively with it. “Throughout August I heard from numerous Western North Carolinians opposed to this deal and fearful of what it means for our safety. I traveled to Israel and heard directly from citizens there of the grave threats they will face if this deal is approved. Each conversation—from Hickory to Jerusalem—left me no doubt this deal must be stopped. Yesterday, President Obama called this deal ‘a victory for diplomacy, American security, and the safety and security of the world.’ Mr. President—this couldn’t be further from the truth.” NOTE: Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip McHenry spoke against the deal on the floor of the House. Video of those remarks can be found here. Additionally, McHenry joined with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23) in writing an op-ed for National Review on their recent trip to Israel and how it shaped their opposition to the nuclear deal. That op-ed can be viewed here.
09.10.2015	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a combined $330,957 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to the Fallston Volunteer Fire Department and the Oak Grove Volunteer Fire Department in Cleveland County, and come in the sixteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Fallston’s grant was for $152,385. The department will use the grant to purchase various fire suppression equipment and to replace older, outdated equipment. Oak Grove’s grant was for $178,575. According to Oak Grove Fire Chief Perry Davis, the grant will purchase 25 air packs and an equal number of spare cylinders to upgrade the department’s stock of breathing apparatus. “Fallston and Oak Grove Volunteer Fire Departments serve different areas of Cleveland County and are both home to excellent fire service volunteers,” said Congressman McHenry. "These AFG grants will serve the needs of these departments and their communities for years to come.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for Tenth District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, Tenth District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Fallston and Oak Grove are two of eight Tenth District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $1,153,944 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds through the coming months.
09.10.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $42,858 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Fairview Volunteer Fire Department in Buncombe County, and comes in the sixteenth round of the 2014 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Fairview Fire Chief Scott Jones, the grant funds will be used to purchase an exhaust ventilation system for the fire station. Fire engines put out a large amount of exhaust and repeated exposure to those fumes can cause health problems over time. The exhaust removal system totally eliminates noxious vehicle fumes before they can be released into the vehicle bays and ultimately the rest of the fire station. The grant will also purchase an air compressor to refill the air packs used by firefighters. “I want to congratulate Chief Jones and his department on writing this successful grant,” commented Congressman McHenry. “I enjoyed visiting the Fairview VFD shortly after Buncombe County became part of the Tenth District a few years ago and I look forward to returning.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for Tenth District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, Tenth District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Fairview is one of eight Tenth District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $1,153,944 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds through the coming months.
09.10.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $179,048 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Mountain View Volunteer Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the sixteenth round of the 2014 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According Mountain View Fire Chief Tony Holsclaw, the grant funds will replace 22 of the department’s old air packs as well as an air compressor used for refilling firefighters air packs. “I want to congratulate Chief Holsclaw and his department on writing a successful grant,” commented Congressman McHenry. “Keeping up-to-date breathing apparatus is crucial to protecting our district’s fire service and this grant will serve the Mountain View VFD for years to come.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for Tenth District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, Tenth District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Fairview is one of eight Tenth District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $1,153,944 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in weekly rounds through the coming months.
08.07.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced today his offices in Hickory and Gastonia will be assisting 10th District veterans in an effort to obtain military service awards which were granted to but never received by local veterans and local veterans’ survivors. Due to problems in oversight, it has been estimated that hundreds, and possibly, thousands of service medals and awards were never granted to those entitled to these awards recognizing their service. “Countless American men and women fought bravely in defense of our nation, but regrettably, did not receive the decorations in recognition of their service,” said Congressman McHenry. “I look forward to working with my staff, the Department of Defense (DOD), and the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) to ensure that every 10th District veteran receives the medals and awards they rightfully earned." Local veterans who were eligible but did not receive their awards, and also for those veterans who would like replacement medals if their medals were lost, stolen or destroyed, should contact Congressman McHenry's offices in Hickory or Gastonia. If a veteran lives in Buncombe, Gaston or Polk Counties, they should contact Joe Bost at 704-833-0096. For those veterans living in Catawba, Cleveland, Lincoln or Rutherford Counties, they should contact Joanna Rowe at 828-327-6100. These awards will be presented by Congressman McHenry in a ceremony on Wednesday, November 11th, 2015. Complete details on that ceremony will be released closer to the date. Any veteran who served during wartime and would like to participate must fill out a Form 180 and a signed Privacy Release allowing Congressman McHenry to make the inquiry on the veteran’s behalf. Forms are available at both the Gastonia and Hickory offices. The forms must be returned to either Congressman McHenry's Gastonia or Hickory Office no later than 5 PM on Friday, August 28th, 2015. NOTE: Congressman McHenry's office can assist veterans with lost or stolen medals at anytime. The 08/28/15 deadline is simply for those who wish to participate in the 11/11/15 ceremony or receive their medals by that date.
08.01.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) will be holding seven town hall meetings for constituents across the 10th Congressional District throughout the month of August. At each Town Hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what can be expected in the coming months. Town Hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues about which they are concerned and ask Congressman McHenry questions on pending legislation and other issues before the House of Representatives. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Internal Revenue Service. A full schedule of the seven town hall meetings including contact information for each venue is below: ​​Buncombe County Tuesday, August 4th at 6 PM AC Reynolds High School 1 Rocket Drive Asheville, NC 28803 ​​Gaston County Wednesday, August 5th at 6 PM Gaston County Courthouse - Commissioners Chambers 325 North Marietta Street Gastonia, NC 28052 ​​Lincoln County Thursday, August 6th at 10 AM North Lincoln High School 2737 Lee Lawing Road Lincolnton, NC 28092 ​​Polk County Monday, August 17th at 6 PM Polk County Commissioners Chambers 40 Courthouse Street Columbus, NC 28722 ​​Rutherford County Tuesday, August 18th at 6 PM Rutherford County School Board Chambers - Cool Springs Board Room 382 West Main Street Forest City, NC 28043 ​​Cleveland County Wednesday, August 19th at 6 PM Cleveland Community College - Keeter Auditorium 137 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 ​​Catawba County Tuesday, August 25th at 2 PM Conover Station 409 4th Street SE Conover, NC 28613
07.21.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of President Obama signing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act into law: “Five years ago today, President Obama and Congressional Democrats celebrated Dodd-Frank as the cure to all that ailed our financial system. In the President’s own words, Dodd-Frank would ensure that never again do the American people foot the bill for bailing out the financial industry. “Five years later, we have seen the exact opposite. Dodd-Frank’s myriad—and still incomplete—regulations have led to the closure of community banks and credit unions, the elimination of vital financial services like free checking accounts, and—most troublingly—has codified federal bailouts into law. “Dodd-Frank’s greatest accomplishment has been further bloating and empowering our federal bureaucracy. From the Financial Stability Oversight Council to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, unaccountable Washington bureaucrats now have vast powers to declare which financial institutions are secure and which products are acceptable. “Dodd-Frank was premised on the notion that deregulation caused our financial crisis. Now—five years later—it is the law’s overregulation that threatens another. Through all of this, it is the American consumer—who cannot access a mortgage or basic banking services—that bears the true brunt of this law’s failures.” NOTE: Chief Deputy Whip McHenry wrote about the law's negative impact on North Carolina consumers in an op-ed for The Charlotte Observer which published Sunday. That op-ed can be found here.
07.14.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after this morning's announcement by the Obama Administration of a nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic of Iran: "Today's announcement, coming after weeks of extended and missed deadlines, leaves me deeply concerned that the effort to find a deal has led this Administration to a bad one. The announced details thus far include no guarantee of access to sensitive sites for third-party inspectors, shreds the rigorous sanctions regime that has worked so well in recent years, and only increases the chances that Iran will possess nuclear weapons in the future. "President Obama's claims that no deal will lead to war lacks basis in reality and looks instead to be fear mongering aimed at engendering popular support for a bad deal. This Iranian regime contributed directly to the deaths of countless American soldiers on the battlefields of Iraq, directly supports Hezbollah and the Assad regime in Syria, and continues to be fully committed to the downfall of our sacred ally Israel. To provide them sanctions relief with no meaningful, long-term constraints on their nuclear program is extremely dangerous to our allies in the Middle East and world peace more broadly. It is my belief that Congress must disapprove of this deal."
07.10.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $171,429 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Broad River Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department in Buncombe County, and comes in the ninth round of the 2014 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Broad River Fire Chief Brent Hayner, the grant funds will be used to purchase a multi-use light rescue truck. The vehicle can also be used for brush fires and various other responses. “Vehicle acquisition is the hardest and most competitive category within the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program,” Congressman McHenry stated. “Following the recent Weed Lane Fire in Black Mountain, it is imperative our local departments have the tools they need to protect our community. I commend Chief Hayner and his department for writing a compelling grant and for providing first rate protection to a large portion of the Tenth District in Buncombe County.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Broad River is one of four 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $601,081 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
07.10.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $61,606 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lowell Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the ninth round of the 2014 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According Lowell Fire Chief Scott Moore, the grant funds will be used to purchase new protective turnout gear for the department’s personnel. “This is the second consecutive year that Lowell has received an AFG Grant,” said Congressman McHenry referring to Lowell’s FY 2013 AFG grant that funded new air packs. “It was a pleasure to visit Chief Moore and his department last year to congratulate them on last year’s grant. I hope to return in the near future.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Lowell is one of four 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $601,081 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
07.10.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $39,226 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The City of Newton Fire Department in Catawba County received the grant that comes in the ninth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Newton Fire Chief Kevin Yoder indicated that the grant funds would be used to purchase a new compressor and refilling station for self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) air packs. It was by sheer coincidence that Congressman McHenry was just given a tour of Newton’s new fire station last week by Chief Yoder and Newton mayor Anne Steadman. “The City of Newton has made a tremendous investment in the safety of its citizens with its new fire station,” said Congressman McHenry. “It was a real pleasure to see and I know this grant will continue Chief Yoder’s mission to provide the citizens of Newton with a top notch fire service.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Newton is one of four 10th District departments to receive AFG funding thus far during the 2014 cycle with a total of $601,081 in AFG funds having been awarded among those departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
07.08.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D, NC-01) introduced H.R. 2949, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. This legislation would block all payments received from a state eugenics compensation program from being considered as income when determining eligibility for federal benefits. During the early decades of the 20th century, over 30 states implemented eugenics or compulsory sterilization laws which led to the mandated sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens. Those sterilized were overwhelming poor and were often unaware they were being victimized. At the time, North Carolina was known to have one of the most aggressive sterilization programs, with only two states having been known to sterilize more of their citizens. In 2013, North Carolina passed legislation becoming the first state to compensate victims of forced sterilization. This legislation set aside $10 million in the state budget to compensate victims of the state's eugenics program. As of the beginning of 2015, more than 200 victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each in compensation. H.R. 2949 was introduced to further assist victims of these programs by ensuring the payments victims receive do not count towards their eligibility for, or amount of, any benefits they receive from the Federal government. This includes Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), unemployment, Supplemental Security Income, and any other Federal benefits. "North Carolina's eugenics program is a vestige of a dark period in our state's history which unfortunately still impacts our citizens today," said Congressman McHenry. "While we could never fully repay these victims for the trauma they suffered, this legislation ensures they are not further victimized for accepting the compensation they deserve. I would like to thank Congressman Butterfield and Senator Tillis for their efforts supporting this legislation and I look forward to seeing it pass the House in the near future." “Between 1929 and 1976 more than 7,000 people in North Carolina were sterilized in one of the nation’s most aggressive eugenic programs," said Congressman Butterfield. "By the 1960s, African Americans accounted for nearly two thirds of sterilizations in that state, though they only comprised one quarter of the population. Sadly we cannot undue the wrongs of our past. Through this bill we hope to prevent additional hardship to eugenics victims by ensuring their eligibility for other federal benefit programs.” On June 25th, Senator Thomas Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) introduced the Senate companion to H.R. 2949, S. 1698. The complete text of H.R. 2949 can be found here.
07.06.2015	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $328,820 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the City of Conover Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the eighth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant funds will be used to purchase forty new airpacks and twenty-five new sets of turnout gear. “The Conover Fire Department, under Chief Mark Hinson’s leadership, has been a leader in the fire service,” commented Congressman McHenry. “This is just the latest of many AFG grants they have received over the past few years and speaks to the department’s professionalism and dedicated service.” Chief Hinson thanked the Congressman for his support of the fire service, “The Congressman has been a champion of fire departments in his district. He has visited our department and we look forward to having him back again soon.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Conover is the first Tenth District fire department to receive AFG funding as a part of the FY 2014 grant cycle. In FY 2013, five grants were awarded in the Tenth District totaling $2,202,916 including a regional grant that benefited every department in Catawba County. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
06.25.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on today's Supreme Court decision in the case of King vs. Burwell: “Obamacare has driven up costs, reduced choice, and harmed small businesses throughout the country. This year alone, North Carolinians are facing premium increases of as much as 25 percent because of President Obama's federal takeover of our healthcare system. It is bad policy and it must be fully repealed. “Today’s decision is unfortunate, but it does not change my strong belief this law is broken. Real healthcare reform should reduce costs, expand choices, and put important healthcare decisions in the hands of consumers, not government bureaucrats. “Through the final 18 months of the Obama Administration, Congressional Republicans will continue to keep the pressure on Obamacare. This law is fundamentally broken and no court decision can change that. Rest assured, I remain fully committed to a full repeal and replacement of Obamacare; I’m hopeful this can be accomplished with a change in the White House come 2017.”
06.18.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “Today the House once again acted to increase transparency and Congressional oversight by passing Trade Promotion Authority. Passage of TPA is vital for our nation as we enter into negotiations on the Trans Pacific Partnership and other trade deals, instituting a framework off which our negotiators will work. More importantly, TPA mandates trade agreements be considered in the light of day—requiring Congress and the American people have an opportunity to fully review any agreement before it receives an up or down vote. “Opponents of TPA have falsely claimed it is a secret agreement that increases President Obama’s power. This is not true. In fact TPA is just the opposite—instead establishing the most stringent oversight requirements of any trade promotion legislation Congress has passed. Anything less would have never earned my vote. “I would like to commend Chairman Ryan for his tremendous leadership on this issue. Throughout this process House Republicans have attempted to work with our Democratic colleagues to get this done but they instead chose to play political games—weakening our nation’s standing abroad and killing a program they cared deeply about as a consequence. “As this legislation heads back to the Senate, I strongly encourage our colleagues across the Capitol to get this done. While TPA is important for our economy and national security—above all—it is about ensuring Congress and the American people a say in this critical process.”
06.18.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after the Shelby Police Department arrested the suspected perpetrator of last night's shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “Last night’s shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina is a horrific and senseless tragedy, made worse that it occurred in a house of worship. It is with great relief we learn the perpetrator of this heinous crime has been brought into custody in Cleveland County. I would like to commend Chief Jeff Ledford and the Shelby Police Department for their professional and quick work taking this monster off our streets. We must also say thanks to the member of the public who spotted the suspect and reported his whereabouts to authorities. “Now that the suspect has been captured, we can begin the mourning process. Giulia and I join the rest of the country in sending our deepest condolences and prayers to the victims and families impacted by this unspeakable tragedy.”
06.11.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2016: “The United States is blessed with the finest military in the world, a group comprised of brave men and women committed to serving and protecting our nation from evolving threats across the globe. To complete that job, we must ensure they have the resources needed to protect our homeland and way of life. H.R. 2685 does exactly that—providing increased funding for military operations and readiness while also allocating funds for important quality-of-life programs for our troops and their families. “With Russia’s aggressive actions in Eastern Europe, instability spreading across the Middle East, and China expanding their influence in Asia, now is not the time to play political games with funding for our national defense. Regrettably, that is exactly what Harry Reid and his Senate Democratic colleagues have chosen to do as they threaten to filibuster this vital legislation in an attempt to increase spending on our bloated federal bureaucracy. It is my sincere hope that Senate Democrats consider our troops, their families, and the dangerous world in which we live and drop these reckless threats.”
06.01.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina (BCBSNC) announced rate hikes of nearly 26% for individual healthcare plans available under the Affordable Care Act: “Today’s announcement is further evidence that in North Carolina, the basic premise of Obamacare—that healthcare would become affordable—is a lie. The Affordable Care Act has been anything but, driving healthcare costs for Western North Carolina families higher each year since enactment. Simply put, this law does not work. It is time we start over—this time with real reform that empowers patients, encourages competition and drives down costs for all.”
05.27.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced five young men and women from North Carolina's 10th Congressional District have accepted appointments to our nation's military service academies for the Class of 2019. Each of these students applied for a nomination through Congressman McHenry's office and were interviewed by the Congressman and his Military Advisory Committee. "I would like to congratulate all five students who have accepted appointments for the class of 2019," Congressman McHenry said. "The young men and women who attend our nation's service academies are among the finest our country has to offer. I am very proud to announce their appointments knowing these five will be excellent representatives of the 10th District at the service academies and later as they continue as officers serving our nation in their respective branches." The five students accepting appointments from Congressman McHenry will be attending either the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; or the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Below is a list of all five students, the academy they will be attending, their hometowns, and the 10th District high schools from which they graduated or will shortly graduate. United States Military Academy at West Point Nathaniel Meade of Hickory, NC; attends Fred T. Foard High School United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Tyler Mispley of Stanley, NC; graduate of East Lincoln High School Anabella Motley of Asheville, NC; attends T.C. Roberson High School Krysta Przestrzelski of Swannanoa, NC; attends Charles D. Owen High School United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Zoe Barnette of Kings Mountain, NC; attends Kings Mountain High School The United States Department of Defense and the United States Department of Transportation operate five service academies across the country. Men and women between the ages of 17 and 23 are eligible for nominations to four of the five service academies. Nominations can come from the President, Vice President, or a Member of Congress and those accepting an appointment must serve at least 5 years active duty following completion of their studies. Those interested in being considered for a future nomination by Congressman McHenry should visit the service academy nomination page on his website here.
04.30.2015	Washington - Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the joint 10-year Congressional balanced budget resolution: “This evening the new Republican majority took another important step in our efforts to get Congress working again by passing the first joint ten-year balanced budget resolution in nearly fifteen years. The joint resolution reflects the Conservative principles of our Conference¬ fully repealing Obamacare, strengthening our national defense, and achieving balance, all without raising taxes. "Additionally it puts our nation on a more sustainable path forward by cutting over $5 trillion in spending and boosting the economy by more than $400 billion. Most importantly, passage of this joint resolution sets the framework for the appropriations process, illustrating Congress can actually work together and get things done for the American people.”
04.29.2015	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) announced Evette Terhon Hernandez and Meghan Pressley as the winners of the 10th District's 2015 Congressional Art Contest. Evette's piece, "Little Patriot", was selected as the winner by a panel of judges from the 10th District. She is a junior at Maiden High School in Catawba County and studies art under teacher Elizabeth Taylor. Evette's artwork, seen below, will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. alongside pieces from each of the Congressional districts across the country. She will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. This year, for the second consecutive year, McHenry's office held a "People's Choice Competition" as part of the Art Contest. The winner of that competition was Meghan Pressley's piece "American Passtime" which can be seen below. Meghan is a sophomore at Gastonia's Gaston Day School where she studies art under teacher Holt Harris. The "People's Choice Competition" winner was determined by which piece received the most "Likes" on Congressman McHenry's Facebook page. The Congressional Art Contest began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. This year’s theme was An Artistic Discovery. “I would like to thank each of the 23 students who submitted artwork for this year's competition. The 10th District competition has seen a tremendous boost in participation the last couple years and 2015's competition was no different. Congratulations to both Evette and Meghan on being recognized for their excellent and patriotic pieces,” said Congressman McHenry. The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit my website.
04.22.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 1928, the Empowering Parents to Invest in Choice (EPIC) Act. This legislation enables parents to save for their children's education in tax-free savings accounts including the popular 529 savings accounts. Additionally this legislation would increase the contribution limits to Coverdell accounts. "A good education beginning at an early age is a vital foundation for the success of our children," said Congressman McHenry. "Unfortunately rising costs have left these needed resources out of reach for many families. The EPIC Act would change that. By allowing parents to save tax-free via 529 accounts, this bill would allow children to attend the school of their choice and increase access to important resources like tutors, books, and special needs services. Our children's educations are so important for their success in life and this legislation empowers parents to invest in the tools their children need to thrive." H.R. 1928 allows parents to use 529 saving accounts for certain K-12 expenses, including academic tutoring, special needs services, tuition and fees for schools, and books. It also increases the limit on contributions to Coverdell accounts from $2,000 to $15,000. 529 plans are tax-advantaged investment trusts currently used to pay for higher-education expenses. Withdrawals from these savings plans are tax-free if they are used to pay for qualified higher education expenses. Payments to 529 accounts must be made in cash or check using after-tax dollars. A Coverdell account is a tax-advantaged investment account that can be used to pay for higher-education expenses as well as elementary and secondary school expenses. Currently, these accounts are capped at $2,000.
04.17.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee introduced H.R. 1839 the Reforming Access for Investments in Startup Enterprises Act of 2015 or RAISE Act. The legislation simply codifies an established legal framework for secondary markets of restricted securities to enhance market liquidity for entrepreneurs and investors. “Secondary markets are among the most important arenas for entrepreneurs seeking capital, but the lack of liquidity in these markets has limited their viability as a tool for growing companies,” said Congressman McHenry. “My bill is a narrow and straightforward fix which, if enacted, would provide more liquidity thereby facilitating growth for investors and entrepreneurs participating in secondary markets.” BACKGROUND: The RAISE Act of 2015 amends the Securities Act of 1933 to include Section 4(a)(7) with the existing Rule 4(a)(1 ½) legal framework for transactions involving the secondary markets. Rule 4(a)(1 ½) was developed from case law by creating a federal exemption for the resale of restricted securities in a private placement. Currently, a holder of securities issued in a private placement may resell the securities on a public trading market, after a holding period, pursuant to Rule 144. However, there is not a similar codified law for private resale of restricted securities. Accordingly, this bill codifies a clear and established legal framework for these transactions to facilitate private company capital formation.
03.26.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015: “Today the House took an important step towards strengthening Medicare and putting our nation’s budget on a more sustainable path forward with passage of a permanent fix to Medicare’s physician payment system. This bipartisan vote sends to the Senate the first real entitlement reform in nearly two decades; a reform that saves taxpayers money, provides much needed stability for our nation’s seniors, and includes no tax increases. It also ends a budget gimmick used for years and highlights Congress’ ability to work in a bipartisan fashion to achieve much-needed structural changes to our nation’s entitlement programs.”
03.25.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), the Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) adoption of rules on Regulation A+ or Title IV of the JOBS Act: “While I continue to review the details of the finalized rule I am encouraged the Commission has taken action on Reg A+. For too long the JOBS Act has been bogged down by Washington bureaucracy impeding the promise this law possesses. While today’s vote is an important step in enhancing the ability of American entrepreneurs and small business to access capital, we still must do more to help entrepreneurs secure the financial support they need to fund their ideas, create jobs and grow our economy.”
03.25.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of the fiscal year 2016 House Republican budget resolution: “Our nation continues to face grave threats both at home and abroad. Regional security in the Middle East deteriorates daily while Russia expands its influence in Eastern Europe. At home we continue down an unsustainable fiscal path marked by constantly growing debt and deficits. There is a better way forward and today House Republicans took the first step in that effort with passage of our FY2016 budget. “This year’s budget maintains our commitment to cutting spending and balancing the budget without tax increases– with $5.5 trillion in spending cuts and a path to achieve balance in less than ten years. At the same time our budget addresses the threats from abroad with increased funding for defense ensuring the brave men and women of our armed forces have the resources they need to accomplish their mission of protecting Americans at home and abroad. “With House passage we move on to reconciling our plan with the Senate Republican budget. This will provide the American people a clear contrast between the responsible budgeting of Republicans and President Obama’s big spending ways. It will also present the best chance yet for passing a full repeal of the disastrous impacts of Obamacare.”
03.23.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement to mark the fifth anniversary of Obamacare being signed into law by President Barack Obama: “On this day five years ago I said Obamacare would lead to higher taxes, higher spending, fewer jobs, and prolong the economic pain felt by so many throughout Western North Carolina. As we mark today’s fifth anniversary of its signing, Obamacare has met all those predictions and then some. From the $1.5 billion spent on a failed website to the ‘lie of the year’ which cost thousands of my constituents the healthcare plans and doctors they liked, Obamacare have proven to be an even bigger disaster than anyone could have predicted. “Five years later the law faces its second review before the Supreme Court, remains deeply unpopular with a majority of the American people, and Republicans enjoy record majorities in Congress– majorities built largely on the back of this failed law. This week, with passage of budget resolutions, those majorities will take an important step to repealing and replacing Obamacare once and for all and finally providing the American people with true healthcare reform that reduces costs and provides us with the choice we deserve.”
03.17.2015	Reps. Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10), Peter DeFazio (D, OR-04), Mike Kelly (R, PA-03) and Richard Neal (D, MA-01) are pleased to announce the House Small Brewers Caucus has been reestablished in the 114th Congress. Founded by DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) in 2007, this bipartisan group is dedicated to issues affecting America’s small brewers and currently includes 143 members of the House. Craft brewing is a fast-growing, $34 billion+ industry that directly supports 115,000 American jobs. In order to create a better business environment for small brewers, the Caucus is backing legislation that would reduce the excise taxes on the sale of the first two million barrels of beer sold by small brewers each year. The Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce (BREW) Act would allow small brewers to use the savings to purchase more equipment and hire more workers, boosting local economies in communities across the country. "With over 20 small breweries in the 10th District I know the positive, job-creating impact these small businesses can have,” McHenry said. “I look forward to continuing as Vice Chairman of the Caucus as we work in a bipartisan fashion to advance their interests." “If you need an example of how craft breweries affect local economies, just look at Oregon,” DeFazio said. “Even during the recession, craft breweries experienced strong growth and today, it’s a $3 billion industry in my state. These small businesses support thousands of local jobs and provide the rest of us with a quality American product. This is exactly the kind of growth I’m proud to support.” “I am very excited to begin work with the Small Brewers Caucus and honored to serve as a co-chairman,” Kelly said. “These main street businesses contribute powerfully to their local economies and provide many thousands of jobs to hardworking Americans from coast to coast. In Pennsylvania alone, craft breweries add to the commonwealth’s economy by nearly $2 billion. I look forward to making sure national policy allows them to keep brewing, growing, and creating more American jobs.” “The craft brewing industry in Massachusetts is thriving because they make distinctive products for passionate consumers. These breweries are locally owned, generate economic development and create good jobs. I have been an enthusiastic supporter of these small businesses and entrepreneurs and I am proud to be a part of the leadership of this bipartisan caucus,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The Brewers Association would like to congratulate Rep. DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Kelly (R-PA), Rep. Neal (D-MA) and Rep. McHenry (R-NC), Co-Chairs and Vice Chairs, respectively, of the House Small Brewers Caucus,” said Bob Pease, president and CEO of the Brewers Association. “They and the other 143 members of Congress who make up the Caucus recognize the economic impact that craft breweries have had over the past 25 years and continue to have in their communities across the country. More than 3,400 craft breweries are responsible for employing more than 115,000 Americans in quality manufacturing and service jobs. We thank the Chairs and Vice Chairs for their efforts, which help foster the continued growth of—and job creation by—craft breweries across the country.” Note: Last week Congressman McHenry spoke with NPR's All Things Considered about the Caucus and craft beer's positive impact on the 10th District of North Carolina. That story can be found here. ###
03.16.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 1365, the Ammunition and Firearms Protection Act. H.R. 1365 would prevent the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) from classifying M855 ammunition as armor-piercing and from instituting any ban on the sale and manufacture of ammunition that is intended, marketed, and sold for rifle use. "The proposed ban is but the latest step in President Obama's assault on our Constitution and Bill of Rights," McHenry said. "While I'm glad the ATF acknowledged the vast public and Congressional outcry against this plan," McHenry continued, "they have still left open the possibility that it could be proposed again in the future and many Congressional Democrats have called for just that. The Ammunition and Firearms Protection Act would put an end to this attack on our Second Amendment by ensuring this popular ammunition used by countless law-abiding American sportsmen remains available and not subject to any future ATF bans." “On behalf of the NRA's five million members, I would like to thank Congressman McHenry for introducing this important legislation," said Chris Cox, Executive Director of NRA-ILA. “Beating back the latest iteration of President Obama's gun control agenda was a significant, but unfortunately temporary, victory for gun owners across America. The Obama administration has made it clear that they will pursue an ammunition ban whenever they see an opportunity. Congressman McHenry's bill will help fight back against President Obama's unconstitutional attacks on our freedom." The M855 ammunition is also known as NATO SS109 ammunition and is commonly used by AR-15 owners for hunting and target-shooting. Last week, the ATF scrapped plans to ban this popular ammunition after public opposition. If passed, this legislation would prevent the ATF from proposing any future bans on ammunition used legally. On February 13th of this year the ATF first proposed a ban on M855 ammunition as armor-piercing ammunition. On March 4th, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R, VA-06) sent a letter signed by McHenry and 238 House colleagues raising concerns about the Administration's proposed ban. Following over 80,000 public comments, the ATF announced on March 10th they would rescind their proposed ban while leaving open the possibility of reconsidering the framework in the future.
03.04.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) introduced H.R. 1249, the No Free Rides Act. H.R. 1249 would prohibit illegal aliens who have received Social Security numbers through President Obama's deferred prosecution of illegal immigrants from using the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). Under President Obama's executive actions on immigration illegal immigrants who qualify for the program are eligible to receive Social Security numbers. Illegal immigrants who have Social Security numbers and meet certain other criteria would qualify for the EITC. "President Obama's immigration action giving millions of illegal immigrants Social Security numbers marked an unprecedented executive overreach," said Congressman McHenry. "Now we learn that these same people, whose first act on American soil was breaking our laws, might be eligible for up to $24,000 in tax credits via the EITC. This is simply unacceptable. By introducing the No Free Rides Act we ensure these illegal immigrants will not receive any more benefits intended to help American families." The Earned Income Tax Credit allows low and moderate income families to reduce their payroll and income tax burdens leaving more money in their pockets via either lower rates or a tax refund. Historically citizenship or legal status were not deciding factors on eligibility for the EITC as only those with Social Security numbers would be eligible for the credit. President Obama's November 2014 immigration executive action allows illegal immigrants who qualify for the deferred prosecution to receive work permits and Social Security numbers. Further information on illegal immigrants potentially receiving money through the EITC can be found here.
02.26.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) welcomed Reverend Randy Cash of Lincolnton, NC to the U.S. House of Representatives to serve as guest chaplain, delivering the chamber's daily prayer. Reverend Cash is a 26 year veteran of the United States Navy where he served as a Naval Chaplain supporting both the Navy and U.S. Marine Corps in operations around the world. Reverend Cash was in Washington this week for the 55th Annual Conference of the American Legion, for which he currently serves as National Chaplain. "It is a tremendous honor to serve as guest chaplain here in the people's house and I'm proud to welcome a fellow Lincoln County resident to deliver the invocation today," said Congressman McHenry. "Reverend Cash has devoted his life to serving the spiritual needs of those who bravely serve our country and I'm thankful I was able to help facilitate this recognition on his behalf." Prior to addressing the House Reverend Cash met with Congressman McHenry, House Speaker John Boehner (OH-08), and the Reverend Patrick J. Conroy, the Chaplain of the U.S. House of Representatives. To see full video of Reverend Cash's opening prayer, click the image below. For video of Congressman McHenry's introduction of Reverend Cash, click the image below.
02.18.2015	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the death of former 10th District Representative Cass Ballenger: Earlier today, the nation lost one of its most selfless and unique public servants with the passing of Congressman Cass Ballenger. From 1986 to 2005 Congressman Ballenger represented the 10th District of North Carolina in the United States House of Representatives. During that time, he served as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, where he authored groundbreaking legislation that improved workplace safety and created the opportunity for employers and regulators to be partners, not adversaries, in protecting the health and safety of workers. As Chairman of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee of the International Relations Committee, he took on the daunting and often thankless task of fighting to promote democracy and defend human rights in Central and South American nations. He did this not only for the sake of justice in those countries, but also to protect the interests of the United States. His personal commitment to serving his constituents is a legendary example that I work hard to follow. I was the beneficiary of his kind and gracious nature when I was elected to represent the 10th District after his decision to retire from the House. He personally provided me with guidance and assistance that immeasurably helped make my transition as a freshman Member successful and ensured continuity of quality constituent services for the district. In his personal and professional life, Congressman Ballenger placed others before himself. Before serving in Congress, he started a successful manufacturing business that has provided jobs for thousands over the years. As a county commissioner, he led the way for the establishment of Catawba Valley Community College and Catawba Valley Medical Center. As a legislator in the North Carolina General Assembly, he authored the State’s first meaningful open meetings law and was named Most Effective Republican Legislator by the N.C. Institute of Government. It would take volumes to list the philanthropic work of Congressman Ballenger and his wife, Donna. They are responsible for countless schools, day care centers, hospitals, and disaster responses in the United States and abroad. In addition to being one of the House’s most distinguished Members, Congressman Ballenger was also one of the most colorful. Anyone who spent any time with him knew that he was affable, kind, and brutally honest. He would tell you exactly what he was thinking and generally with a hilarious delivery. He was one of the few people who could hold someone accountable in the most blistering way, make him laugh, and help him out of a tight spot all in one conversation. He was a rare person. He will be missed.
02.11.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of S. 1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act: “After six years of reviews, court cases, and other delays, today the House approved S. 1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The bill now moves to the White House where President Obama will decide in the coming days whether or not he will sign this job-creating legislation into law. “The choice is clear: President Obama can fulfill his post mid-term election promise of working across the aisle by joining with bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress, labor unions, and the majority of Americans and sign this bill or he can continue to side with fringe elements of his party who oppose this infrastructure project. I strongly urge Mr. Obama to reconsider his veto threat and sign this bill creating jobs, investing in our economy, and keeping his word to the American people.”
02.06.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the statement below following the passing of Representative Alan Nunnelee: "Giulia and I are deeply saddened to learn Alan has lost his fight with cancer. Alan was the epitome of a Southern gentleman who showed amazing fortitude and faith in the face of this horrible illness. We send our sympathies to his beloved wife Tori and their three children and ask all to join us in praying for the Nunnelee family as they mourn this tremendous loss."
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) joined with Congresswoman Grace Meng (D, NY-6) to introduce H.R. 750, the Family Care Savings Act. H.R. 750 raises the cap on dependent care flexible spending accounts from $5,000 to $10,000 and indexes the cap amount to inflation. “Over the past thirty years, costs have risen drastically for American families with the cost of childcare being no different,” said Congressman McHenry. “As a first-time father I have gained a new appreciation for the significant expenses parents face when raising children. This change is a common sense reform to better address the budget realities faced by so many American families.” “As the mother of two young children, I can attest firsthand to the staggering costs of child care,” said Congresswoman Meng. “It is essential that we help parents deal with these types of rising expenses, and raising the cap on this kind of flexible spending account is an easy and common sense way to do it. I urge my colleagues in Congress – many of whom are parents or grandparents themselves – to pass this important piece of legislation.” The dependent care FSA was originally created as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and is designed to help American families plan and budget by using pretax dollars to pay for expenses related to the care of children, disabled spouses, or elderly parents. The current cap of $5,000 was originally set in 1986. It applies to children under the age of 13, anyone who is physically or mentally unable to care for themselves, and any adult whose care is predominantly paid for by another person. Minimum and maximum contribution amounts to dependent care FSAs are set by employers. Flexible spending accounts (FSA) are a savings vehicle established as part of employer-sponsored health insurance plans. They allow employees to save a share of their earnings for qualifying expenses which typically include medical or dependent care. The money is pretax dollars deducted directly from employee's paychecks.
02.03.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced submission deadlines for the 2015 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. The winning artwork from each congressional district will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The “Grand Prize” winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries will be judged by a panel, and one winner will be selected. Artwork be submitted electronically to Joe Bost of Congressman McHenry's Gastonia office. The deadline to submit the artwork is April 15, 2015. Once all artwork has been received, submissions will be posted on the Congressman's Facebook page and users can share their thoughts on the work by liking their favorites. “The last two years of this competition have brought some of the greatest interest I have seen since being elected to Congress,” said Congressman McHenry. "I am glad 10th District art students and teachers have shown such tremendous enthusiasm for the competition. I look forward to meeting the winning student this summer." The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit mchenry.house.gov.
02.02.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement on this morning's release of President Barack Obama's FY 2016 budget proposal: “Over the last week and again this morning President Obama laid out a budget which doubles down on the same failed policies that have marked his first six years. The numbers are simply staggering: $2.1 trillion in new taxes, a $259 billion increase in federal spending, and $8.5 trillion in new debt. And these are on top of the $1.7 trillion in new taxes and $7.5 trillion in new debt already racked up by this Administration. “What Americans need is a budget plan that helps the middle class but also begins to rein in our massive federal debt and deficits. In the coming weeks, House Republicans will roll out a budget with America’s future generations in mind. A plan that uses American’s hard-earned tax dollars responsibly and puts us on a path to balancing the budget, something Mr. Obama’s plan never does.”
01.22.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015: “As a number of folks from Western North Carolina have traveled to Washington today to mark the 42nd anniversary of the Supreme Court’s tragic decision in Roe v. Wade, I am proud to join my House colleagues in defending the unborn with today’s passage of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. “This vital legislation codifies into law that no money appropriated by federal law can be used to pay for abortions. While extremely important, H.R. 7 is but the first step in the House’s efforts to support the pro-life movement and stand with those who cannot defend themselves.” After the House vote, McHenry met with a youth group from St. Aloysius Catholic Church in Hickory, NC on the steps of the U.S. Capitol. The group from St. Aloysius was in Washington to participate in the annual March for Life.
01.20.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after President Barack Obama's State of the Union address: “Tonight President Obama had the opportunity to lay out a bipartisan agenda, aimed at achieving consensus with Congressional Republicans during his final two years in office. Unfortunately what I heard instead was more of the same big government policies which have not worked and were repudiated at the ballot box by the American people last November. “President Obama spoke at length about America’s struggling middle class but failed to acknowledge the substantial role his policies have played in hindering middle class job growth. This President has given us Dodd-Frank which drives up borrowing costs for small businesses, Obamacare which has reduced hours and take home pay, and burdensome regulations which continue to hamper job growth. “There were areas where I believe Congressional Republicans can work together with Mr. Obama, especially as it relates to cybersecurity and trade policy. I hope the President will work together with us in Congress to get things done for the American people."
01.19.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement in recognition of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "Today I join all Americans in celebrating the life and work of Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. King's Biblical teachings and message of peaceful resistance were - and continue to be - so important in the fight against racial inequality. As we honor Dr. King's life, we must never forget his service and message of liberty for all, regardless of the color of their skin."
01.15.2015	Yesterday, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) was named by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling to serve as the Vice Chairman of the full committee for the 114th Congress. During the 113th Congress, McHenry led the committee's efforts to investigate racial and gender discrimination at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau while serving as the Chairman of the committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. "I am honored to have been selected by Chairman Hensarling to serve as his Vice Chair for the coming Congress," McHenry said in reaction to yesterday's announcement. "I look forward to working with Jeb over the next two years as our Committee continues its efforts pursuing legislation that will grow our economy, create jobs, and hold Washington accountable to American taxpayers." McHenry has served on the Financial Services Committee since his first term in 2005. In addition to serving as Vice Chairman of the full committee, McHenry will be a member of the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee as well as the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee.
01.14.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2015: “President Obama’s executive actions on immigration announced this past November represented an unprecedented overreach going well beyond his Constitutional powers. In December, House Republicans committed to blocking them while fully funding the Department of Homeland Security and today we have done just that. “The funding bill passed this morning maintains necessary funding for DHS while also blocking all funding to implement the President’s unconstitutional executive actions, keeping the promise House Republicans made to the American people late last year. It is clear our immigration system needs drastic reforms beginning with real border security. These reforms can be accomplished through bipartisan negotiations, not unilateral executive decree.”
01.09.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: “The results of last fall’s election made clear the American people’s two greatest concerns are creating jobs and improving the economy. Today the House has again voted to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, a project that if completed, would do both. “Approval of the Keystone pipeline is long overdue. The project has been approved by various federal and state agencies including John Kerry’s State Department. It is supported by a majority of Americans and enjoys bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. After the election President Obama claimed he was prepared to work with Congress on areas of bipartisan agreement; Keystone would be a great start.”
01.08.2015	Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the statement below following passage of H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act: “Obamacare has hurt countless Western North Carolinians by cancelling policies, driving up premiums, and cutting hours and wages. Today the House acted to reverse one of the law’s most destructive effects: the redefinition of full-time work as 30 hours, a policy that hits American workers living paycheck to paycheck the hardest. “By passing the Save American Workers Act, the House will help increase hours and wages for lower skilled and entry-level workers by returning the definition of full time work to the standard Americans have always known, 40 hours. I look forward to the Senate passing this bipartisan reform and strongly urge President Obama to focus on the best interests of the American workers and reconsider his veto threat.” H.R. 30 amends the Affordable Care Act's (ACA) employer mandate by changing the definition of full-time employee under the ACA as an employee who is employed on average at least 40 hours per week. Present law sets full-time employees as those that work an average of 30 hours per week.
01.07.2015	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following statement regarding passage of H.R. 26, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act: “Last Congress, the House Financial Services Committee produced a responsible, bipartisan reauthorization of TRIA that achieved our stated goals of both protecting against losses from potential terrorist attacks and also reforming the program to reduce the burden on American taxpayers. While this bill passed the House by a huge margin, 417-7, that was still not enough to get it through Harry Reid's dysfunctional Senate. “Today I was proud to again support our Committee’s TRIA reauthorization. This legislation will resume vital coverage for businesses throughout the country, provide the insurance industry with much needed certainty, and, most importantly, continue the House’s efforts to serve as a responsible steward of tax payer dollars. Thank you to Chairman Hensarling for his continued hard work on this legislation and I encourage the Senate and President Obama to act quickly to enact these bipartisan reforms.” Today's legislation is similar to S. 2244, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2014 which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 417-7 on December 10, 2014. Click the image below to see McHenry's speech in support of that legislation.
01.06.2015	Washington - Today, Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (R, NC-10) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act of 2015: “As our nation moves into a second decade at war, we continue to have countless men and women returning home and seeking work after bravely serving our nation overseas. Regrettably many of these brave Americans have struggled to find work and the President’s healthcare bill has only made that search more difficult. “Today, the House acted to help relieve some of these struggles by passing H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act. This legislation will exempt veterans already receiving healthcare through the Department of Defense or VA from counting as full-time employees under Obamacare’s onerous small business mandate. This important bill, which enjoys wide bipartisan support, is an important step to help reduce Obamacare’s burden on small businesses while also helping our nation’s heroes get back to work.”
12.12.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Chief Deputy Whip, released the following statement on House passage of legislation to keep the government open and funded for the remainder of the fiscal year: “Yesterday, I supported -- and the House passed -- legislation to fund the federal government, other than the Department of Homeland Security, for the remainder of the fiscal year. While far from perfect, this legislation was the result of bipartisan negotiations between the House and Senate. It maintains spending levels established in last year’s budget agreement, spending levels which match the lowest discretionary spending in 9 years. Additionally, this bill cuts IRS funding by $345 million, cuts funding for and staffing levels at the EPA, and prevents a taxpayer bailout of big insurance companies. “Most importantly this legislation only extends funding for the Department Homeland Security through February. At that time, Republican majorities in the House and Senate can work together to fight President Obama’s unprecedented executive action on immigration before his Administration begins processing applications -- without the President or Democratic Congressional minority scaring the American people with threats of the government shutting down. The majority of Americans are opposed to the President’s lawless immigration action. House Republicans remain committed to stopping it and truly addressing our nation’s immigration crisis with a larger Republican majority in the 114th Congress.”
12.10.2014	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Chairman of the Financial Services Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, released the following statement on House passage of S. 2244, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIA) of 2014, extending the program for six more years: “I applaud today’s passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2014. This legislation accomplishes our Committee’s stated goal: a long-term extension of the TRIA program to protect against losses from possible terrorist attacks, which also reforms the program to reduce the burden on American taxpayers. These bipartisan reforms will provide the certainty needed for the insurance industry while also continuing the House’s efforts to serve as a responsible steward of tax payer dollars. “Additionally this legislation protects Main Street businesses by changing burdensome requirements included in the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation that have unnecessarily harmed countless small businesses. I applaud Chairman Hensarling for his hard work leading this legislation to House passage and strongly encourage the Senate to support it as well.”
11.25.2014	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry today praised the selection of State Representative Tim Moore of Cleveland County to be the next Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives. Moore was chosen on the first ballot by the Republican Caucus and will succeed Speaker Thom Tillis who was elected to the U.S. Senate. “Tim Moore and I were both elected to the North Carolina House in 2002 and it was clear from the very start that Tim was a natural leader and would do great things for our state,” said Congressman McHenry. “I’m thrilled not just to have a Speaker from the Tenth Congressional District, but especially one of Tim’s caliber serving North Carolina.” Another representative from the Tenth District also claimed the position of N.C. House Majority Leader. Representative Mike Hager of Rutherford County was elected to the top post in the GOP Caucus. “Mike has been a solid leader on the issues of energy and economic development and he has fought tirelessly for his constituents in Rutherford and Burke Counties. I know he will be a great Majority Leader.” McHenry said. “I would be remiss if I didn’t also mention my State Representative, Jason Saine of Lincoln County, who ran a strong campaign for Majority Leader. Jason will continue to be an influential leader in the Legislature and I’m proud to call him my Representative.” The North Carolina General Assembly will convene in January. ###
11.20.2014	Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on President Barack Obama's announcement of executive action on immigration: “This evening we have once again seen a President more focused on pursuing divisive political gimmicks as opposed to sound policy and the wishes of the American people. President Obama’s unilateral action on immigration is not just illegal, as he himself has acknowledged on numerous occasions in the past, but more importantly, it does nothing to actually fix our nation’s broken immigration system; in fact, it makes the situation worse. “If the President were actually committed to getting something done, he would work with Congress to find a bipartisan solution that secures our nation’s borders and builds an immigration system that works for the countless law-abiding people who wish to realize the American Dream. Instead he has chosen an unconstitutional executive action opposed by the majority of Americans, an action which Congressional Republicans will use the powers we possess to block.”
10.29.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the reopening of the Social Security Administration's Hickory office. The new office will be located at 1050 U.S. Highway 321 NW, Hickory, NC 28601. The office will reopen on Thursday, October 30th at 9 AM. The relocated office will be open Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from 9 AM to 3 PM and 9 AM to Noon on Wednesdays. Tenth District residents with questions about Social Security can visit the Hickory office at those times or call 1-800-772-1213 for assistance. Constituents can also visit the Social Security Administration's website, www.socialsecurity.gov, for additional information.
10.24.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry, the Chief Deputy Whip, participated in the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's hearing entitled The Ebola Crisis: Coordination of a Multi-Agency Response​. During the Congressman's five minutes of questions he pushed two witnesses from the Department of Defense, Major General James M. Lariviere and Assistant Secretary Michael Lumpkin, on how prepared the Department is for dealing with an American service member being infected by the Ebola virus. You can view full video of the exchange by clicking the image below: Following the hearing, Congressman McHenry appeared on CNN's @This Hour with Berman & Michaela and Fox Business' Varney & Company with Stuart Varney ​to discuss today's Oversight hearing, the ongoing Ebola crisis, and what more the Obama Administration should be doing to ensure American's are protected from the ongoing epidemic. Click the images below to see full video of the interviews: ###
10.22.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the death of former Parkdale Mills Chairman and lifelong Gastonia resident Duke Kimbrell: “Gaston County, the state of North Carolina, and the textile industry as a whole have lost a true titan with the passing of Parkdale Mills Chairman Duke Kimbrell. "From sweeping the floors at a mill while in high school, to eventually taking over the very same company, Mr. Kimbrell grew Parkdale Mills into one of the world’s preeminent textile companies in his over 70 years with the company. He embodied the American Dream, where hard work, intelligence and dogged perseverance are well rewarded. "A World War II veteran who attended NC State University on the GI Bill, Mr. Kimbrell was a philanthropic giant and proud lifelong Gastonia resident who will be sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family as they mourn his passing.”
08.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $190,518 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lowell Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the sixteenth round of the 2013 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Lowell Fire Chief Scott Moore, the grant funds will be used to purchase at least 30 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA). Those air packs will replace several outdated ones the department has in its inventory. Other miscellaneous equipment will also be purchased with the grant funds. “I want to congratulate Chief Moore and his department on writing such a successful grant,” commented Congressman McHenry. “I look forward to visiting the Lowell Fire Department soon to see their new equipment and thank their volunteers for all they do.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee would like to see from departments. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Lowell is the fifth 10th District department to receive AFG funding during the 2013 cycle and the second department in Gaston County. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
08.06.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $15,702 in a U.S. Justice Department (DOJ) grant to a local law enforcement agency in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Catawba County Sheriff’s Department and is part of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). JAG Grants allow states and units of local government, including tribes, to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice. Any of the following program areas may be included: law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections programs, drug treatment and enforcement programs, planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs and crime victim and witness programs. The Catawba County Sheriff’s Department will use the FY 2014 JAG award to purchase law enforcement equipment for the sheriff's office. Funds will allow the procurement of an EZ-Child ID Mobile System and an upgrade of the forensic extractor software. The EZ-Child ID program (targeted at children and senior citizens) will provide families with an ID report, printed ID card and a CD-ROM including photos, fingerprints, contact info, and video of an interview of the subject. This system captures all data required by the Amber Alert system and can be used to aid law enforcement in the unfortunate instance of the individual becoming missing or abducted. The extractor upgrade will allow law enforcement to expand their data retrieval to recover deleted texts, pictures, and GPS routes, in an effort to assist during criminal investigations. “Sheriff Coy Reid and his department are true professionals and do a great job of protecting Catawba County,” said Congressman McHenry. “I want to commend them on this JAG Grant and I look forward to working with Sheriff Reid in the future on public safety issues.” The Catawba County Sheriff’s Department is the first Tenth District department to receive JAG funding in the FY 2014 cycle. ###
07.28.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the newly appointed Chief Deputy Whip, will be holding six town hall meetings for constituents across the 10th Congressional District from Monday August 4th through Wednesday August 6th. At each Town Hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what can be expected in the coming months. Town Hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues about which they are concerned and ask Congressman McHenry questions on pending legislation and other issues before the House of Representatives. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Internal Revenue Service. "From the failed Obamacare rollout to the continuing crisis at the Department of Veterans Affairs, the people of Western North Carolina are rightfully concerned about the direction our country is headed," said Congressman McHenry. "I welcome the opportunity to speak with my constituents and hear directly from them about the problems they are facing." A full schedule of the six town hall meetings including contact information for each venue is below: Buncombe County Monday, August 4th at 2 PM Land of the Sky Shrine Club 39 Spring Cove Road Swannanoa, NC 28778 828-299-1766 Rutherford and Polk County Monday, August 4th at 6 PM Lake Lure Fire Department 622 Memorial Highway Lake Lure, NC 28746 828-625-9333 Lincoln County Tuesday, August 5th at 2 PM Lincoln Charter School Lincolnton Campus 133 Eagle Nest Road Lincolnton, NC 28092 704-736-9888 Gaston County Tuesday, August 5th at 6 PM Gaston College Kimbrell Campus and Textile Technology Center 7220 Wilkinson Boulevard Belmont, NC 28012 704-825-3737 Cleveland County Wednesday, August 6th at 2 PM Pinnacle Classical Academy 900 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 704-740-4040 Catawba County Wednesday August 6th at 6 PM Maiden High School 600 West Main Street Maiden, NC 28650 828-428-8197 ###
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced a change to his district staff as former Regional Director J. Brett Keeter has been named District Director. The change will take effect immediately. Keeter will manage McHenry’s three district offices located in Hickory, Gastonia, and Black Mountain. He will oversee the seven person district staff responsible for assisting 10th District constituents with issues with federal agencies. Additionally, he will serve as McHenry's main contact to local governments throughout the seven counties that makeup the 10th District. Keeter is the longest-tenured member of McHenry's staff having worked in the Congressman's district office since he was first sworn in as a Member of Congress in January of 2005. Prior to McHenry's election to the US House of Representatives, Keeter served as a Legislative Director during McHenry's time in the NC House of Representatives. Keeter is a Gaston County native, having been raised in Mount Holly and graduating from East Gaston High School in 1994. He graduated from UNC Charlotte in 1999 with a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and later served as the President of the UNC Charlotte Alumni Association from 2012-2013. Keeter currently resides in Gastonia with his wife Madeline. “Brett has long been a trusted aide ably serving the constituents of the 10th District,” said McHenry. “I am pleased to announce his promotion as District Director. Few know North Carolina's 10th Congressional District better than Brett. I have no doubt he will continue his strong work in this new role.” Keeter replaces Mark Fleming who served as McHenry's District Director from January of 2008 to March of 2014. Fleming left to become the President and CEO of Conservatives for Clean Energy. "Mark has been a trusted aide and great friend," McHenry said. "I thank him for his years of service to the 10th District and wish him all the best in his new role."
07.08.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) praised the bipartisan passage of House Resolution 588 concerning the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo's (DRC) suspension of exit permits for adopted Congolese children. H. Res 588, which McHenry cosponsored, requests that the Congolese Government immediately resume the processing of adoption cases and the issuing of exit permits. "The Congolese Government's refusal to issue exit permits for these adopted children is both irresponsible and unnecessary," said McHenry. "There are numerous loving parents prepared to welcome these orphaned children into their homes and the DRC has instead decided to build arbitrary barriers preventing it. I am proud to cosponsor and support this resolution calling upon the DRC to immediately resume issuing exit permits so these children can join caring families in America." The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) estimates there are over four million orphans living in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Americans from 43 different states have attempted to adopt children from the DRC but have been prevented from doing so due to the government's suspension of the issuance of exit permits. Last November, Congressman McHenry became aware of the DRC's suspension of exit permits when a local Gastonia family contacted his office seeking assistance. McHenry worked with the State Department to assist the Littlejohns in securing exit permits for their two adopted children in the DRC. In June of this year, the Littlejohns were reunited with their children when they arrived home to Gastonia.
06.30.2014	HICKORY – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1,777,320 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The City of Hickory Fire Department in Catawba County is the host department for the grant that comes in the tenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Hickory Fire Chief Fred Hollar indicated that the grant will be used to purchase 800 megahertz radios for all fire and rescue departments located in Catawba County. “The City of Hickory is proud to take the lead in the administration of this grant to enhance radio communications throughout Catawba County,” stated Chief Hollar. “The regional grant will ensure direct communication with all police, fire, the sheriff’s department, and all EMS and rescue agencies countywide. All agencies will now have the ability to purchase much needed 800 MHz radio equipment, which will be utilized to communicate during multi-agency emergencies. After years of realizing our communication shortfalls, we will now be able to close the gap.” Chief Hollar concluded, “We thank Congressman McHenry for his advocacy on behalf of the fire service.” “I have visited nearly every fire department in Catawba County during my Congressional service and the county is blessed with some of the best-trained and most dedicated fire service professionals in North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry. “The technology upgrades that will be made possible by this grant will allow Catawba County fire departments to vastly improve their communications and will mean better coordination each time a call is run. I particularly commend the Hickory Fire Department for serving as the host agency for this grant.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. The $1,777,320 AFG grant is the largest ever awarded in the 10th Congressional District. Thus far in the 2013 funding cycle, $1,913,218 has been awarded to 10th District departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
06.26.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) was selected by Majority Whip-Elect Steve Scalise (R-LA) to serve as his Chief Deputy Whip. McHenry released the following statement in response to his selection: "I am humbled and honored that Steve has asked me to serve as his Chief Deputy Whip. Steve is a strong conservative leader for our Conference and I am excited for the opportunity to be a part of his team. I look forward to working with him, our five Senior Deputy Whips, and the rest of the whip team to support a conservative, pro-growth agenda that will improve our economy, create jobs, and help middle class families." ###
06.25.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) questioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy about the agency's efforts to clean up TCE contamination at the former CTS site in Asheville. Their exchange took place during Administrator McCarthy's testimony this morning before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. To view video of the exchange between Administrator McCarthy and Congressman McHenry please click the image below. For further information on today's hearing, please visit the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's website.
06.25.2014	Recent analysis from the Manhattan Institute has once again highlighted the Affordable Care Act to be anything but affordable for the constituents of North Carolina's 10th District. The county-by-county analysis illustrates just how much more citizens of NC-10 are paying for individually-purchased health insurance thanks to President Obama's healthcare law. "This new analysis highlights what the hard-working folks in Western North Carolina already know: Obamacare is not affordable," said Congressman McHenry. "This disastrous law has given my constituents cancelled policies, lost doctors, and now premiums two and three times what they previously paid. This law is not working and I remain committed to replacing it with patient-centered healthcare reforms that keep costs down for all Americans." The Manhattan Institute's analysis found the average price increase under the ACA for men in the seven counties of the 10th District to be over 145% while the average price for women increased over 100%. The chart below shows the average price increase for individually-purchased healthcare plans in each 10th District's seven counties broken down into three different ages and split between male and female. Men Age 27 Men Age 40 Men Age 64 Women Age 27 Women Age 40 Women Age 64 Buncombe ​170% ​130% ​193% ​79% ​76% ​201% Catawba 169% ​134% ​191% ​77% ​72% ​198% Cleveland 133% ​102% ​152% ​54% ​48% ​158% Gaston 136% ​100% ​133% ​49% ​51% ​146% Lincoln 120% ​92% ​133% ​43% ​43% ​142% Polk 170% ​130% ​193% ​79% ​76% ​201% Rutherford 157% 122% ​177% 69% 63% 183% ###
06.10.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $33,298 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Broad River Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department in Buncombe County, and comes in the fifth round of the 2013 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Broad River Fire Chief Brent Hayner, the grant funds will be used to completely replace the department’s stock of fire hose. The grant will purchase 4000 feet of supply hose and 3000 feet of attack hose. “Having reliable fire suppression equipment is vital to any fire department and this grant will help Broad River Volunteer Fire & Rescue to replace old fire hose that has become worn and outdated,” Congressman McHenry stated. “I commend Chief Hayner and his department for all they do to keep eastern Buncombe County safe. A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Broad River is the second 10th District department to receive AFG funding during the 2013 cycle. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months.
05.29.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) release the following statement calling for the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki following revelations of mismanagement and mistreatment at VA facilities in Phoenix and across the country: "The treatment of veterans by the Phoenix VA is nothing short of disgusting. These brave Americans have given so much for our country and for them to be subjected to this horrendous treatment is repugnant. "After I reviewed yesterday's interim report, it is clear that Secretary Shinseki has failed his most basic responsibility of caring for America's heroes. The report found these issues not to be isolated incidents but rather systemic problems throughout the VA system, a system Secretary Shinseki has led since the President took the oath of office in 2009. In light of these most recent revelations, I believe it is time Secretary Shinseki resign and allow for new leadership that will protect our nation's veterans. "While the treatment of veterans uncovered in the report is awful, I must commend the staffs at both the Hickory outpatient clinic and Asheville VA Medical Center who have served the veterans in my district with distinction. I appreciate their service to our veterans."
05.07.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced Vandal Novacek and Sierra Hanafin as the winner of the 10th District's 2014 Congressional Art Contest. Vandal's piece, "Celluloid Selfie", was selected as the winner by a panel of judges from the 10th District. He is a student at Forestview High School in Gastonia where he studies art under teacher Elaine Patterson. Vandal's artwork, seen below, will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. alongside pieces from each of the Congressional districts across the country. He will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. This year, for the first time, McHenry's office held a "People's Choice Competition" as part of the Art Contest. The winner of that competition was Sierra Hanafin's piece "My Brush's Journey" which can be seen below. Sierra is a student at Belmont's South Point High School where she studies art under teacher Alyson Hall. The "People's Choice Competition" winner was determined by which piece received the most "Likes" on Congressman McHenry's Facebook page. The Congressional Art Contest began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. This year’s theme was An Artistic Discovery. “I would like to thank all 24 students who contributed artwork to the competition. Participation this year was higher than we have seen in years. Congratulations to both Vandal and Sierra on being recognized for their great pieces,” said Congressman McHenry. The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit mchenry.house.gov.
05.02.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the announcement by Speaker John Boehner that the House of Representatives will vote to create special select committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya that killed four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens: "I commend Speaker Boehner for this important announcement and Chairman Issa for his tireless work to uncover the truth of what happened on that horrible night in 2012. "As an Oversight Committee member, I was initially hesitant to support a select committee, believing our Committee would be best suited to uncover the truth. Unfortunately, this Administration's countless attempts at cover ups leave us no choice other than a select committee. "The American people can rest assured House Republicans will not stop until we have the truth about who was responsible for the deaths of these four brave Americans and why the President and his administration refused to act to save them that night."
04.08.2014	Washington - Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement welcoming the news of GKN Driveline's plans to expand their 10th Congressional District manufacturing facility: "Today's announcement from GKN and Governor McCrory is great news for Catawba County and Western North Carolina as a whole. GKN Driveline is a world leader in automotive components and their continued investment in our community is another sign of the vitality of the Hickory metro area and our state's improving economy. I'm sorry I was unable to attend today's announcement but look forward to visiting the expanded facility in the near future." Earlier this afternoon, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory joined with GKN Driveline Americas President Robert Willig to announce expansion plans for the GKN Driveline manufacturing facility in Newton. The expanded facility is expected to create at least 228 new jobs and bring $113 million in economic investment to the area. The world's leading supplier of automotive driveline components and systems, GKN Driveline currently employs 729 people at the Catawba County facility.
03.06.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the statement below following news of the passing of Senator Martin Nesbitt: "Giulia and I were very saddened to learn of the passing of Senator Martin Nesbitt, one of North Carolina's longest-serving legislators and a champion for Buncombe County. Senator Nesbitt and I served together in the NC House and he was always very gracious to me. Our prayers go out to his family."
02.18.2014	High school students in the 10th District encouraged to enter. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced submission deadlines for the 2014 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Contest began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. This year’s theme is An Artistic Discovery, and the winning artwork from each Congressional District will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The “Grand Prize” winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries will be judged by a panel, and one winner will be selected. Artwork should be submitted electronically to Joe Bost of Congressman McHenry's Gastonia office. The deadline to submit the artwork is April 18, 2014. Once all artwork has been received, submissions will be posted on the Congressman's Facebook page and users can share their thoughts on the work by liking their favorites. “Last year we received a tremendous level of interest from local students and I hope this year is even better," said Congressman McHenry. "It is always a pleasure to meet with the 10th District's winning artist and see their work on display whenever I walk to the House floor for votes." The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit mchenry.house.gov.
01.28.2014	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after President Obama’s State of the Union address: "Creating economic opportunity is the centerpiece of real economic recovery. Unfortunately, the policies articulated tonight are grounded in the President's long-held belief that only by empowering the government can we improve the lives of Americans. "The past six years of consistently high unemployment and stagnant wages are proof this is simply not the case. The only way to truly create economic opportunity is by empowering each individual American and giving them the tools they need to succeed. "An agenda based on empowering Americans provides a better education through school choice, access to needed job skills through training programs, and patient-centered healthcare, not a government-run trainwreck like Obamacare. "While we have many disagreements, it is my hope that, even in this fractured political environment, we can work together to improve our economy and achieve this mutual goal."
01.21.2014	Due to inclement weather, Congressman McHenry's Washington office will be closed today, Tuesday January 21st. If you need immediate assistance, please contact either Congressman McHenry's Hickory (828-327-6100) or Gastonia (704-833-0096) offices.
01.16.2014	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the statement below following news of the retirement of Anne Ponder, the Chancellor of the University of North Carolina at Asheville: "I would like to congratulate Anne Ponder on her retirement and give thanks for her many years of service to UNCA and the Asheville community as a whole. During my time representing Asheville, I have truly appreciated Anne's leadership and her role in growing UNCA into one of the leading public liberal arts colleges in the nation."
12.10.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today regarding Congressman Mel Watt's confirmation as the next Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA): "I congratulate my colleague and fellow North Carolinian on his confirmation. He’s had an honorable and distinguished career in public service, and this is quite the capstone. While Mel and I fundamentally disagree on the correct path for our nation's housing policy, I am hopeful we can work together to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to ensure American taxpayers are not stuck footing the bill for another multi-billion dollar bailout."
12.04.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced ten young men and women from North Carolina's 10th Congressional District have been nominated to our nation's military service academies for the Class of 2018. Each of these students applied through Congressman McHenry's office and were interviewed by the Congressman and his Military Advisory Committee before receiving the nominations. "I would like to congratulate each of these students on their nominations," Congressman McHenry said. "The young men and women who attend our nation's service academies are the best that this country has to offer and I am proud to have nominated these fine candidates to represent the 10th District at the service academies." The ten students have been nominated by Congressman McHenry to attend either the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; or the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. The ten students are listed below based on the service academy to which they have been nominated. United States Military Academy at West Point John Biondi of Denver, NC Bear Naisang of Fairview, NC Will Whisnant of Shelby, NC United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Megan Lauterer of Denver, NC William Hoppe of Kings Mountain, NC Hannah Teo of Montreat, NC Rachael Hamm of Conover, NC United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Cole Matolka of Gastonia, NC Katie Ellis of Kings Mountain, NC Andrew Beard of Maiden, NC The United States Department of Defense operates five service academies across the country, one representing each branch of the military. Men and women between the ages of 17 and 23 are eligible for nominations to four of the five service academies. Nominations can come from the President, Vice President, or a Member of Congress and those accepting an appointment must serve at least 5 years active duty following completion of their studies. Those interested in being considered for a future nomination by Congressman McHenry should visit the service academy nomination page on his website here.
11.07.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today regarding Congressman Howard Coble's announcement that he will not seek reelection: "I am sorry to hear that the Dean, Howard Coble will not be running for reelection in 2014. As North Carolina's longest serving Republican House member, he has had an immeasurable impact on the state he loves so much and its Congressional delegation. Any North Carolinian that has had the pleasure of meeting Howard undoubtedly was witness to his uncanny knowledge of every high school in the state's mascot. Howard is a truly wonderful man and the epitome of an honorable public servant. His good nature and kindness will be dearly missed by all here in Congress."
11.05.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on media reports that Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina has only enrolled one person through the Obamacare exchanges: "I find it astonishing that after one month of the Obamacare exchanges being open, North Carolina's largest insurer has only had one person enroll in a plan. This entire healthcare law is predicated on large numbers of uninsured individuals signing up for coverage, yet the failures of healthcare.gov have rendered that all but impossible for the majority of Americans. "While the Obama Administration seems to have finally realized the magnitude of the problems facing the website, it is unacceptable for the American people to continue to face the threat of financial penalty because HHS cannot get its act together. I again reiterate my call for a one year delay of the individual mandate to ensure no American is penalized because of this disastrous law."
11.01.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations released the following statement on the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) failure to propose a rule to amend Regulation A of the Securities Act of 1993 as mandated in Title IV of the JOBS Act: “I find it inexcusable that, 19 months after enactment of the JOBS Act, the SEC has failed to even propose a rule for Regulation A. As economic growth remains tepid, a renewed Reg. A exemption would directly unlock new sources of capital for startups and small businesses by modernizing securities regulations and empowering everyday Americans to invest in their local businesses. "That is why I authored H.R. 701, which passed the House with 416 votes, to require the SEC's completion of Reg A rulemaking by yesterday. Unfortunately, like much of the good work done by the House, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid refused to bring this common-sense legislation up for a vote, punishing small businesses and startups that endlessly wait for the SEC to do its job.” Regulation A is a securities exemption that enables small businesses to raise capital through a registration and disclosure process that is less complex, time-consuming, and expensive. However, exceedingly-low capital limits and burdensome regulations have led entrepreneurs to deem the Regulation unusable. In response to these rules, Title IV of the JOBS Act increased the annual amount a small business can raise through Regulation A, from $5 million to $50 million. Additionally, Title IV of the JOBS Act also requires the SEC to remove onerous rules of Regulation A that have made it unfeasible for small businesses to raise capital needed to grow and prosper. In February of this year, Congressman Patrick McHenry introduced H.R. 701 to compel the SEC to finish rules for Title IV of the JOBS Act by October 31, 2013. In May 2013, the United States House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 701 by a vote of 416 to 6. Nonetheless, the SEC still has not even proposed new rules for Regulation A.
10.31.2013	In response to widespread flooding in Catawba and Lincoln Counties, FEMA has issued a disaster declaration for the area. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced the issuance by FEMA of a federal disaster declaration for damage caused by flooding in Catawba and Lincoln counties on July 27th of this year. The disaster aid was issued following denial of an initial request that was appealed by Governor Pat McCrory. Congressman McHenry has worked closely with FEMA officials supporting the declaration throughout the application and appeal process. The aid will be used by the state of North Carolina and local governments to repair roads and other infrastructure that was damaged during the flooding. "I am grateful that FEMA reevaluated their initial decision and will be sending this much needed aid to the citizens of Western North Carolina," said Congressman McHenry. "I would like to thank Governor McCrory and the other state and local officials who worked closely with my office throughout this process to ensure the declaration was granted." Following the flooding this summer, Governor McCrory made an initial request to FEMA for disaster aid which was denied. At the time, FEMA claimed that the damage done by the flooding did not meet the threshold for federal assistance. In light of this denial Congressman McHenry coordinated with Governor McCrory, North Carolina Emergency Management, and Catawba County Emergency Management to request FEMA send a team to Western North Carolina to revaluate the storm damage. Following the reevaluation, Governor McCrory appealed the FEMA decision. Accompanying the appeal was a letter of support from Congressman McHenry. This past Tuesday, President Obama granted the appeal and issued the federal disaster declaration.
10.23.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, release the following statement on the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) release of equity crowdfunding rules for public comment: "On the heels of another month of anemic job growth, I am encouraged that the SEC unanimously agreed to release equity crowdfunding rules for public comment. Crowdfunding can unlock private capital and provide opportunities for entrepreneurs and everyday investors to spur economic growth. To meet this potential, the Commission and FINRA must work with stakeholders and leaders in disruptive finance; we must get the rules right. I urge all interested parties to submit comments to enrich the Commission’s knowledge of equity crowdfunding."
10.16.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the passage of a continuing resolution in the House of Representatives that resumes funding for the federal government and raises the nation's debt ceiling: “Today, I voted once again for a continuing resolution that funds government operations and avoids an economically-devastating default. The legislation is far from perfect. It was a tough call to vote for it – but the best choice given the limited options, and a severely divided Washington. While it doesn’t end Obamacare, it includes a significant change to Obamacare by forcing this administration to verify income for those receiving subsidies under the law. "The spending controls maintained in this legislation have produced consecutive years of decreased federal spending for the first time in over half a century. Additionally, it marks a return to regular order by establishing a conference committee on the budget. This creates an opportunity to produce a bipartisan agreement that starts to reduce our debt and put our nation on a sustainable fiscal path for future generations of Americans. "Now that another Washington-manufactured crisis has passed, I hope we can focus our attention on further addressing the disaster that is Obamacare. If someone is able to actually log-in to the exchange website, they are faced with massive rate increases and less coverage. It’s a bad law, and a worse implementation. I hope the Senate and President Obama will work with us to find ways to protect consumers from this train wreck."
10.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, marked the fifth anniversary of the passage of the Troubled Asset Recovery Plan [TARP] today with the following statement: “Five years ago, our financial system was brought to its knees, and Washington responded by bailing out some of nation’s largest financial institutions. The Democrat-controlled Congress passed Dodd-Frank and declared that the problem was fixed. “Except it’s not. Dodd-Frank did not end ‘Too Big to Fail,’ it enshrined it into law. A series of hearings in my subcommittee on ending bailouts has shown that the provisions in Dodd-Frank create perverse incentives for creditors while crippling community banks, endangering taxpayers, and undermining a truly fair and open market. “We must fix Dodd-Frank, allow firms to go bankrupt, and get the taxpayer off the hook to ensure that the federal government no longer provides bailouts to financial institutions.” ###
10.01.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the lapse in appropriations that has led to the shutdown of the federal government: "Due to the lapse in government appropriations my Gastonia and Black Mountain offices will be closed until further notice. We will maintain a small staff presence in Washington and Hickory. Please feel free to contact either office with your comments, concerns, or questions. We appreciate your patience. "I have always maintained that I am opposed to a government shutdown but unfortunately that is where we find ourselves today. We are currently working to find a compromise that will reopen the government while also preventing my constituents from facing the unaffordable costs of Obamacare. Now is the time for the Senate and House to come together to work to fix these problems and end Washington's dysfunction as we know it."
09.29.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House passage of a continuing resolution that delays Obamacare for one year and fully repeals the law's medical device tax: "Yesterday, I joined with a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to pass an amended continuing resolution that maintains government funding while also providing fairness for all Americans by delaying Obamacare for one year. The House also passed a second amendment that will fully repeal the law's job killing medical device tax. The amendments passed yesterday are important first steps towards fully repealing Obamacare and replacing it with sensible healthcare reform that keeps costs down and protects access to coverage. It is now time for the Senate to take up and pass this legislation to keep the government open and protect Americans from Obamacare's disastrous effects. Should they fail to act, the House has also passed a bill to ensure the brave men and women of our armed forces do not miss a paycheck should there be a government shutdown."
09.24.2013	Polk County constituents invited to visit with issues or concerns for Congressman McHenry. share: f t Tenth District Congressman Patrick McHenry’s staff will hold office hours in Polk County on Friday, September 27th from 2:00 – 5:00pm at the Womack Building, 40 Courthouse Street in Columbus. Roger Kumpf, McHenry’s Regional Representative for Polk County, will be available to meet with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, veterans affairs, immigration, etc. He will also be there to listen to any concerns that constituents have with federal policy or pending legislation before Congress. Kumpf will then relay these concerns to Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry’s staff holds regular office hours in each county of the Tenth District. McHenry maintains district offices in Gastonia, Hickory and Black Mountain.
09.20.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on passage in the House of Representatives of a continuing resolution that delays and defunds Obamacare: “Today the House of Representatives took another important step in the fight to control government spending and protect Americans from the disaster that is Obamacare. The continuing resolution passed by the House keeps the government open while also maintaining modest controls on Washington's spending and fully defunding the President' healthcare law." "With the action today it now becomes imperative that the Senate take up the fight that the House has led for the last three years to defund and dismantle Obamacare. Only with their help will it be possible to get rid of this trainwreck and protect the quality of healthcare for all Americans."
09.17.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) will host a business development workshop for veterans this Friday in Hickory, NC share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that he will cosponsor a business development workshop for veterans and service-disabled veterans on Friday September 20 from 8:00 AM to 12:00 PM. The workshop will take place at Appalachian State University's North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies, located at 1990 Main Avenue SE in Hickory and is free to all attendees. This event will be cosponsored by the Small Business and Technology Development Center (SBTDC) and will educate attendees on government programs available for veterans and service-disabled veterans who own their own businesses or are interested in starting a business. Attendees will learn about the Veterans Affairs verification process and specific programs available to veterans through the Small Business Administration (SBA) such as HUBZone and WOSB. Specialists from the SBTDC and SBA will be on hand to conduct the programs. Veterans will learn about financing options, exporting options and other business development resources available to them. Officials from the state government will be on hand to discuss contracting programs available through the state of North Carolina. An official from Catawba County will also be present to discuss local contracting opportunities. “This workshop is a great opportunity for the veterans of Western North Carolina to learn about resources available to them as they start and expand their small businesses. Our nation's veterans have made tremendous sacrifices in defense of this country and I am committed to assisting them in any way I can," Congressman McHenry said. A flyer for the workshop can be found here.
09.10.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on possible United States military action in Syria: "After reviewing the evidence and plan presented by the Administration, I do not believe there is a compelling national interest or clear mission for our engagement in the Syrian Civil War. Coupled with the overwhelming and near-unanimous feedback from my constituents opposing military involvement, I cannot support US military action in Syria."
08.09.2013	Tenth District residents affected by July 27th flooding encouraged to apply for assistance through the SBA. share: f t Residents and businesses affected by flooding on July 27 can now apply for low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration. These loans are available in Catawba County and the adjacent county of Lincoln. “We need to make sure our homeowners, renters, and small businesses have the assistance they need in a time of crisis such as this,” said Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10). For homeowners, loans up to $200,000 are available to repair damaged or destroyed real estate. Homeowners and renters are eligible for loans up to $40,000 to repair damaged or destroyed personal property. Businesses and non-profit organizations of any size may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery, equipment, inventory, and other business assets. SBA’s customer service representatives will be on hand at the Disaster Loan Outreach Center, in Catawba County, to answer questions about the disaster loan program, explain the process, and help individuals complete their applications. The Catawba County Center’s location and hours of operation: Catawba County Agriculture Resources Center 1175 South Brady Avenue Newton, NC 28658-0389 Thursday August 8: noon to 6 PM Friday August 9: 9 AM to 6 PM Saturday August 10: 10 AM to 2 PM Sunday August 11: CLOSED Monday August 12: 9 AM to 6 PM Tuesday August 13: 9 AM to 6 PM Wednesday August 14: 9 AM to 6 PM Thursday August 15: 9 AM to 6 PM Information on additional loans for small businesses and private non-profit organizations, as well as further information on interest rates and loan terms are available by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for people with hearing disabilities) or by emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be returned to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. Online applications for disaster loans are also available through SBA’s secure website here. Additional information on local assistance for Catawba County can be found here. The filing deadline to return applications for physical property damage is October 7, 2013. The deadline to return economic injury applications is May 6, 2014. ###
08.05.2013	Below is a list of the 2013 Town Hall meetings for Congressman Patrick McHenry: Lincoln County Monday, August 5th at 6 PM Lincolnton City Hall Council Chambers 114 West Sycamore Street Lincolnton, NC 28093 Polk County Tuesday, August 6th at 6 PM R. Jay Foster Hall of Justice Womack Building 40 Columbus Street Columbus, NC 28722 Buncombe County Wednesday, August 7th at 6 PM ArtSpace Charter School 2030 U.S. Highway 70 Swannanoa, NC 28778 Gaston County Monday, August 12th at 6 PM Gaston College Myers Auditorium 201 Highway 321 South Dallas, NC 28034 Catawba County Tuesday, August 13th at 6 PM Conover Station 403 Conover Station SE Conover, NC 28613 Cleveland County Wednesday, August 14th at 6 PM Cleveland Community College Keeter Auditorium 137 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 Rutherford County Thursday, August 15th at 6 PM Rutherford County Schools Cool Springs Administrative Offices School Board Auditorium 382 West Main Street Forest City, NC 28043
07.29.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry's (NC-10) staff to hold office hours in Rutherford County this Thursday, August 1st. share: f t Tenth District Congressman Patrick McHenry’s staff will hold office hours in Forest City on Thursday, August 1st from 2:00 – 5:00pm in the Mayor’s Office at Forest City Town Hall – 128 North Powell Street. Brett Keeter, McHenry’s Regional Director for Rutherford County, will be available to meet with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, veterans’ affairs, immigration, etc. He will also be there to listen to any concerns that constituents have with federal policy or pending legislation before Congress. Keeter will then relay these concerns to Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry represents all of Rutherford County and his staff holds regular office hours in the county throughout the year. The Congressman maintains district offices in Gastonia, Hickory and Black Mountain. ###
07.24.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) sent a letter to President Obama drawing attention letter to USTR on TPP prior to President's meeting with Vietnamese President share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) sent a letter to President Barack Obama expressing concerns of the American textile industry prior to Presidential meetings with Truong Tan Sang, the President of Vietnam. The letter specifically draws attention to a letter sent July 10th to United States Trade Representative Michael Froman that called for continued support of strong textile rules during future rounds of negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The letter to President Obama, which was cosigned by 3 other Members of Congress, discusses the need for a strong yarn forward rule of origin in the textile and apparel sections of TPP. Ongoing TPP negotiations are expected to be one of the main points of discussion between President Obama and President Sang when they meet in Washington Thursday. In previous negotiations on TPP the Vietnamese government has advocated for changes to long standing textile rules that would benefit their state-owned textile industry. If implemented, these rules would have a significant negative impact on the American textile industry. In the July 10th letter to Ambassador Froman Congressman McHenry and 167 of his colleague outlined their concerns with the negotiations with Vietnam. "It is imperative that President Obama review our letter to Ambassador Froman prior to tomorrow's meetings," said Congressman McHenry. “The President must make clear to President Sang that any agreement in TPP will be fairly designed and protect America's textile industry. The 10th District, and North Carolina as a whole, rely heavily on the textile industry and going forward I will continue to do everything I can to protect it and the jobs it provides." The yarn-forward rule ensures that only countries within a free trade region, such as TPP, receive benefits from the agreement. This rule has been a part of all recent free trade agreements and is responsible for over $25 billion of trade between the United States and other countries. The 10th District of North Carolina has a long history of being one of the leading centers of textile manufacturing both in the United States and around the world. Currently, 86 textile companies maintain operations in the 10th District and over 120,000 people are employed in the industry statewide. The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a regional free trade agreement currently being negotiated by the United States and 12 other countries of the Pacific Rim. The 18th formal round of negotiations will be taking place in Malaysia this July with negotiators hoping for a final agreement by October of 2013. A copy of the letter to President Obama can be found here. A copy of the letter to Ambassador Froman can be found here.
07.23.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) cosponsors a business workshop in Asheville for veterans interested in learning about available resources share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that he will cosponsor a business development workshop for veterans and service-disabled veterans on Friday July 26 from 8:30 AM to 12:30 PM. The workshop will take place at the WCU Complex at Biltmore Park, located at 28 Schenck Parkway, Suite 300 in Asheville and is free to all attendees. This event will be cosponsored by the Small Business and Technology Development Center (SBTDC) and will educate attendees on government programs available for veterans and service disabled veterans who own their own businesses or are interested in starting a business. Attendees will learn about the Veterans Affairs verification process and specific programs available to veterans through the Small Business Administration (SBA) such as HUBZone and WOSB. Specialists from the SBTDC and SBA will be on hand to conduct the programs. Veterans will learn about financing options, exporting options and other business development resources available to them. Officials from the state government will be on hand to discuss contracting programs available through the state of North Carolina. An official with the City of Asheville will also be present to discuss local contracting opportunities. “This workshop is a great opportunity for the veterans of Western North Carolina to learn about resources available to them as they start and expand their small businesses. Our nation's veterans have made tremendous sacrifices in defense of this country and I am committed to assisting them in any way I can," Congressman McHenry said. A flyer for the workshop can be found here. Those interested in attending must register here. ###
07.23.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and Congressman Scott Garrett (NJ-5) sent a letter to SEC Chairman Mary Jo White questioning the legality of proposed rules related to implementation of Title II of the JOBS Act share: f t Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and Congressman Scott Garrett, Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, sent a letter to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Mary Jo White that questions the legality of the Commission’s rules that were added to the removal of the ban on general solicitation under Title II of the JOBS Act. The Commission’s rule proposals unnecessarily burden private issuers by increasing regulations and disclosure requirements that effectively preserve the ban on general solicitation, violating the law’s intent. The letter specifically addresses Proposed Rule 503, which requires private issuers to file a wildly-expanded Form D fifteen days before engaging in general solicitation. The construction of this complex pre-filing requirement will negatively impact smaller businesses that the JOBS Act intended to empower. The letter requests the SEC to withdraw Proposed Rule 503 in order to uphold the intent of the law. "While I am pleased that the SEC finally took action to implement Title II of the JOBS Act, I am extremely disappointed that it completely dismissed Congressional intent in the process," Congressman McHenry said. "The SEC’s added pre-filing requirement is yet another unnecessary burden that prevents small businesses from accessing capital that they need to grow and create jobs. This letter expresses to the Commission that it must immediately withdraw the proposed rule to adhere to the law." “In just the latest instance of unnecessary regulatory overreach, the SEC’s proposed amendments to Form D filings—over the objections of two Commissioners—are not called for under Section 201 of the JOBS Act,” Congressman Garrett said. “These amendments would likely increase regulatory burdens on small businesses seeking to conduct Regulation D offerings and thereby undermine the fundamental goals of the JOBS Act. Despite receiving a narrow and straightforward mandate from Congress, the SEC’s actions once again call into question its commitment to small business capital formation and its ability to properly execute its core mission.” A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
07.16.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the confirmation of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement on Richard Cordray's confirmation as the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: "More than a year and a half after President Obama deprived Congress of its duty to advise and consent, I can now officially congratulate Mr. Cordray for his confirmation as Director of the CFPB. With that said, Mr. Cordray’s confirmation does not change the fact that the Bureau’s structure remains deeply flawed and lacks genuine accountability to Congress and the American people. The recent revelation that the Bureau splurged $95 million of taxpayer money to renovate its DC office is just one of many examples. I will maintain rigorous oversight of the CFPB, and I expect that Director Cordray will work with Congress to implement reasonable reforms to the Bureau, bringing it into line with other regulators that oversee our economy and financial markets." ###
07.10.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement about the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Open Meeting to approve final rules to implement Title II of the JOBS Act. share: f t Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement about the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Open Meeting to approve final rules to implement Title II of the JOBS Act: “Better a year late than never. It is encouraging that the SEC finally took steps to implement Section 201 of the JOBS Act, allowing startups to raise capital more effectively and efficiently from a wider range of investors. However, my encouragement comes with caution as the Commission also approved a proposal – by a 3-2 vote – to inflate filing requirements that unjustifiably burden American entrepreneurs who use Reg D, almost seemingly trying to neutralize congressional intent. Nonetheless, I remain committed to encouraging the SEC to expeditiously move to implement other bipartisan provisions of the JOBS Act, such as the crowdfunding and Reg A titles, ensuring that it fulfills its congressional mandate to unlock new methods of capital formation that serve our startups and spur job creation.” ###
07.10.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) sent a letter, signed by 167 Members of Congress, to US Trade Representative Michael Froman on the Trans-Pacific Partnership share: f t WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman asking that he continue to support strong textile rules during future rounds of negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The letter, which was cosigned by 167 Members of Congress, expresses concerns about positions taken by the Vietnamese government in the textile negotiations that could have significant negative impacts on the U.S. textile industry and its export partners. The Vietnamese government has attempted to change long standing rules to allow the sourcing of textiles from China to the United States duty free. This change could lead to the loss of more than 500,000 textile jobs in the U.S. and another 1.5 million jobs in the textile supply chains in the Western Hemisphere and Africa. The letter specifically mentions the importance of the yarn-forward rule which ensures that only countries within a free trade region, such as TPP, receive benefits from the agreement. This rule, which has been a part of all recent free trade agreements, is responsible for over $25 billion of trade between the United States and other countries. Without this rule, state-owned Vietnamese companies would have the ability to flood the U.S. market with subsidized Chinese imports that would take significant market share from small and medium sized textile companies in the U.S. "Strong rules are necessary to protect the 10th District's remaining textile industry and ensure that no more good-paying North Carolina jobs are lost because of another unfair trade deal that disproportionately harms American textile workers,” said Congressman McHenry. “This agreement must be fairly constructed to protect and maintain investment in the many small and medium-sized textile businesses in the 10th District that would be affected by it. The textile industry is one of North Carolina's most important industries and the jobs of numerous hard working Americans rely on us maintaining these strong textile rules.” The 10th District of North Carolina has a long history of being one of the leading centers of textile manufacturing both in the United States and around the world. Currently, 86 textile companies maintain operations in the 10th District and over 120,000 people are employed in the industry statewide. The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a regional free trade agreement currently being negotiated by the United States and 12 other countries of the Pacific Rim. The 18th formal round of negotiations will be taking place in Malaysia this July with negotiators hoping for a final agreement by October of 2013. A copy of the letter can be found here.
07.09.2013	Congressman McHenry's Staff to Hold Office Hours in Shelby to hear Issues and Concerns from Cleveland County Constituents. share: f t Tenth District Congressman Patrick McHenry’s staff will hold office hours in Cleveland County on Thursday, July 11th from 2:00 – 5:00pm in the Lane Alexander Room at the Charles Harry Cleveland County Administration Building – 311 East Marion Street in Shelby. Brett Keeter, McHenry’s Regional Director for Cleveland County, will be available to meet with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, veterans affairs, immigration, etc. He will also be there to listen to any concerns that constituents have with federal policy or pending legislation before Congress. Keeter will then relay these concerns to Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry’s staff holds regular office hours in each county of the Tenth District. McHenry maintains district offices in Gastonia, Hickory and Black Mountain. ###
07.09.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced $1.5 Million in a U.S. Economic Development Administration grant for Gaston College manufacturing center share: f t WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1.5 Million in a U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant to be used for the construction of a manufacturing center on the campus of Gaston College in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will be used to construct the new Center for Advanced Manufacturing and to renovate the existing Pharr Trade and Industrial building on the campus of Gaston College in Dallas, NC. The college will use the facilities to train workers to expand the region's clean energy industry, green technologies, and sustainable manufacturing initiatives. Students and workers who receive this training will be prepared for high-growth, high-wage occupations in these industries. The project is expected to create 160 new jobs and $50 Million in new private investment for the Tenth Congressional District. "The construction of the Center for Advanced Manufacturing will have a tremendous impact on Gaston County not just because of the jobs directly created, but also from the continued investment in the community that will come from hosting a training center of this quality," said Congressman McHenry. "I specifically want to commend Gaston College and their Board of Trustees for the hard work they put into this proposal. They will be excellent hosts." Gaston College President Dr. Pat Skinner discussed the importance of the project and the role Congressman McHenry played in its awarding, “Gaston College is a key player in the region’s economic development efforts. By collaborating with local Chambers of Commerce, economic development and workforce development agencies, and local business and industry, the college is able to develop and provide customized training opportunities to improve workers’ skills and business operations. We are grateful that the U.S. Economic Development Administration has found merit in our proposed Center for Advanced Manufacturing and has chosen to partner with the College as we strive to meet the needs identified in our region for a skilled and specialized workforce. We are grateful for Congressman Patrick McHenry’s advocacy for our efforts and continued support of Gaston College and our community.” The U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) is the lead federal economic development agency and works to promote competitiveness by preparing the nation's regions for growth in the worldwide economy. Part of the Department of Commerce, the EDA awards grants through a competitive process based on the merit of applications received. The grant for Gaston College was part of $4.1 Million in EDA grants to support business growth and job creation in North Carolina. ###
06.26.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1 million in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to Buncombe County Fire Departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1 Million in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The Skyland Fire Department in Buncombe County is the host department for the grant that comes in the thirty-second round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Skyland Fire Chief Dennis Presley indicated that the grant will be used to purchase 800 megahertz radios for all eighteen fire departments located in Buncombe County. In addition to the regional grant, the Skyland Fire Department also received a $297,000 equipment grant to replace 48 of the department’s air packs. “I cannot overstate how important this funding is to the readiness of our department,” stated Chief Presley. “The technology upgrades that will be made possible by this grant will allow Buncombe County fire departments to vastly improve their communications and will mean better coordination each time a call is run,” said Congressman McHenry. “I particularly commend the Skyland Fire Department for serving as the host agency for this grant.” Jerry VeHaun, Buncombe County’s Emergency Management Director commented on Congressman McHenry's attentiveness to emergency services, “The Congressman has already been to a county Fire Chiefs Association meeting, toured our public safety training facility and visited some of the departments in the short time that he’s represented Buncombe County.” A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Thus far in the 2012 funding cycle, $2,305,167 has been awarded to 10th District departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
06.25.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $24,197 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to Green Creek Volunteer Fire Department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $24,197 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Green Creek Volunteer Fire Department in Polk County, and comes in the thirty-first round of the 2012 fiscal year Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “Green Creek is the second fire department in Polk County to receive an AFG Grant in this funding cycle,” stated Congressman McHenry. The Tryon Fire Department received a similar grant in March. Both grants will fund equipment and operations. A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Thus far in the 2012 funding cycle, $1,008,167 has been awarded to 10th District departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
05.16.2013	A bipartisan majority of the House of Representatives yesterday voted 416-6 in favor of passing a bill proposed by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) to enforce a deadline on JOBS Act legislation signed into law last year. share: f t A bipartisan majority of the House of Representatives yesterday voted 416-6 in favor of passing a bill proposed by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) to enforce a deadline on JOBS Act legislation signed into law last year. “To cultivate a stronger economy, we have to build a more vibrant marketplace for our startups and entrepreneurs, which is what this legislation is all about,” said Congressman McHenry. “It’s critical that the SEC finally start to implement the JOBS Act – a bipartisan bill that was signed into law more than a year ago. Small businesses and entrepreneurs are starving for capital, and this legislation simply sets a firm deadline for the SEC to get its job done.” Specifically, H.R. 701 requires the SEC to implement Title IV of the JOBS Act by October 31. Title IV requires the SEC to adopt or amend regulations that encourage capital formation for small businesses through a currently under-used provision of securities law known as Regulation A. The House originally passed Title IV of the JOBS Act to help small businesses with wide bipartisan support, 421-1. ###
05.06.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $126,102 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $126,102 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The City of Newton Fire Department in Catawba County received the grant that comes in the twenty-fourth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The AFG Program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Randy Walker with Newton Fire Department indicated that the grant will be used to bring the department’s entire stock of communications equipment up to 800 megahertz, the recommended standard in emergency services. “The technology upgrades that will be made possible by this grant will allow the Newton Fire Department to vastly improve its communications and interoperability and will mean better coordination each time a call is run” said Congressman McHenry. A panel of fire experts at DHS awards AFG grants through a competitive review process. Congressman McHenry hosts workshops for 10th District EMS and fire departments to help guide personnel through the process and give them an inside view of what the committee looks for. The workshops are taught by Cherryville Fire Chief Jeff Cash, a nationally recognized expert in his field and former member of DHS’s AFG review committee. Since Congressman McHenry and Chief Cash began the program, 10th District EMS and fire departments have consistently won more grants than departments in most of North Carolina’s other Congressional Districts. Thus far in the 2012 funding cycle, $983,970 has been awarded to 10th District departments. Grants will continue to be announced in rounds weekly through the coming months. ###
03.18.2013	Upon learning of President Obama’s decision to nominate Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez to be the next Labor Secretary, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) released the following statement: share: f t Upon learning of President Obama’s decision to nominate Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez to be the next Labor Secretary, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) released the following statement: “The President’s nomination of Mr. Perez shows a complete lack of regard for the American taxpayer. An official such as Mr. Perez, who is in the middle of a congressional investigation concentrated on a quid pro quo deal that potentially cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars, should not be promoted to lead our nation’s Labor Department.” The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee have investigated the St. Paul situation, in which Mr. Perez urged the City of St. Paul to drop a case it had before the Supreme Court in return for a Justice Department decision not to intervene in an unrelated False Claims Act case. That case had the potential to return over $180 million in damages to the U.S. treasury. The letter to Attorney General Holder regarding the matter can be found here. ###
03.06.2013	At a meeting of the House Small Brewers Caucus yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) was selected Vice Chairman by his colleagues in Congress. North Carolina’s 10th Congressional District features a number of small and medium-sized breweries. Asheville has become the craft-brewing center of the Southeast – boasting more breweries per capita than any U.S. city. share: f t At a meeting of the House Small Brewers Caucus yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) was selected Vice Chairman by his colleagues in Congress. North Carolina’s 10th Congressional District features a number of small and medium-sized breweries. Asheville has become the craft-brewing center of the Southeast – boasting more breweries per capita than any U.S. city. “Asheville is Beer City USA and I’ve always found it essential to support and promote our local businesses,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Small Brewers Caucus fights for legislation that will help our local brewers grow and create more jobs, something we desperately need in this economy.” The Caucus was formed in 2007 by interested Members of Congress to gain a better understanding of all aspects of small brewing, from business and regulatory issues to the brewing process and history of the small brewing community. The major legislative priority for the Caucus is the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce (BREW) Act, a bill to reduce the excise tax rate on small breweries. Win Bassett, Executive Director of the North Carolina Brewer’s Guild said, "The North Carolina Brewers Guild was thrilled to host Rep. McHenry at some of the state's finest breweries in August of last year. The Congressman showed a sincere interest in helping the craft beer community in North Carolina continue to thrive, and the Guild looks forward to his leadership in the Caucus." Oscar Wong, owner Highland Brewery, hosted one of the stops on McHenry’s tour. “All of us at Highland are delighted to hear of Congressman McHenry’s selection as Vice Chair of the House Small Brewers Caucus. During his several visits to the area, two of which were to our brewery, he has demonstrated strong support for small business overall and in particular brewing which has grown so vigorously in North Carolina.” McHenry also visited Dennis Thies at Green Man Brewery, who applauded the Congressman for supporting local brewers. “Congressman McHenry is an excellent choice and has exemplified a true passion and interest for our industry. Our agenda is very different than the "big boys" and it will be awesome to have his voice in congress. Furthermore, the small craft brewers are the future of this industry and will continue to have a positive, profound effect on our country’s economy.” ###
02.25.2013	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced submission deadlines for the 2013 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced submission deadlines for the 2013 Congressional Art Contest. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in this nationwide event enabling high school students to showcase their artistic ability. This year’s theme is An Artistic Discovery, and the winning artwork from each Congressional District will be prominently displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. The “Grand Prize” winner will also receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries will be displayed on the Congressman’s Facebook Page and the entry with the most “Likes” will be deemed the winner. “I encourage all high school students to submit their artwork, and I look forward to meeting North Carolina's 10th Congressional District winner in May, and all of this year’s winners in June,” said Congressman McHenry. The Congressional Art Contest is a privately-funded competition with support from SouthWest Airlines and the Congressional Institute. For more information, please visit mchenry.house.gov. ###
02.18.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) will continue to focus on the economy and education reform at events across western North Carolina during this Congressional Work Week. The Congressman will address ways to build the 21st Century Workforce necessary to compete in the global economy at schools, manufacturing facilities, and to business groups from Gastonia to Asheville. share: f t Gastonia, NC - Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) will continue to focus on the economy and education reform at events across western North Carolina during this Congressional Work Week. The Congressman will address ways to build the 21st Century Workforce necessary to compete in the global economy at schools, manufacturing facilities, and to business groups from Gastonia to Asheville. “If we want to keep jobs here at home, we’ve got to make sure our students get the education and training they need to compete,” said Congressman McHenry. “We’ve got to reform our education system so that every child has the opportunity to become successful in life.” Congressman McHenry will kick off the tour on Wednesday with a visit to his alma mater, Ashbrook High School, followed by a visit to Stuart Cramer High School in Belmont. On Thursday, the Congressman will join Senator Richard Burr in addressing the Asheville Council of Independent Business Owners, sit in on an economic development discussion with the Board of Directors for AdvantageWest, and end the day with a discussion about education and transportation needs at the Annual Banquet of the American Society of Civil Engineers. On Friday, McHenry will speak to former Lt. Governor Walter Dalton’s American Government class at Gardner-Webb University before taking a tour of the Timken plant in Rutherfordton. For information about these events or to schedule media interviews, please contact Ryan Minto at 202-225-2576. ###
02.15.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, joined bipartisan leaders in Congress to introduce H.R. 701, legislation providing the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with an October 31st deadline to finalize Regulation A rules. share: f t Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, joined bipartisan leaders in Congress to introduce H.R. 701, legislation providing the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with an October 31st deadline to finalize Regulation A rules. Congressman McHenry announced, “This legislation simply codifies an intended deadline for Regulation A as part of the JOBS Act. The target date is reasonable, nearly 19 months after the JOBS Act was signed into law and 5 months before the official Reg A review would need to occur. Our economy needs efficient, vibrant capital markets to thrive and this legislation is a step in the right direction.” Congressman Schweikert said, “It was a big win for the American people when we passed the Reg A bill to help small businesses go public. It will be an even bigger success if we can put Washington on a deadline to relieve small businesses from expensive underwriting costs as soon as possible.” Congressman Eshoo said, “This bill puts the SEC on deadline to finalize new Regulation A rules so that startup businesses can have access to additional capital. When Congress raised the SEC Regulation A offering limit, we did so because it was essential in meeting the capital formation needs of startup businesses in our country. It will create jobs, strengthen our economy, and promote the high-tech, sustainable energy, and life science sectors. Now, it’s the SEC’s turn to follow through.” Congressman Garrett said, “Congress took bipartisan action to pass the JOBS Act nearly a year ago. The SEC has yet to finalize its rules. This abject failure to implement key components – like Regulation A – stands in the way of economic growth and harms our capital markets. I thank Congressman McHenry for his hard work on this bill, and I look forward to its swift passage.” Congressman Scott said, “This bill is an important step in providing small businesses an exemption from burdensome requirements by offering a reasonable but firm deadline for finalizing the rules for Regulation A. The JOBS Act passed with strong support in the House, and this legislation builds on that progress by putting the release of the final rules in sight.” Regulation A offers small businesses an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The JOBS Act requires the SEC to amend Regulation A by raising its threshold to $50 million and enact new regulations resolving issues that have made Regulation A unfeasible to date. ###
01.25.2013	Congressman Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement regarding a federal appeals court decision to strike down President Obama's recess appointments: share: f t Washington, DC - Congressman Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement regarding a federal appeals court decision to strike down President Obama's recess appointments: “Making recess appointments while Congress is in session not only violates the law, it violates common sense. The Appeals Court ruling against President Obama’s recess appointments is a victory for the United States Constitution. When President Obama made the decision to ignore the advice and consent authority of the U.S. Senate and allow Mr. Cordray to sit atop the powerful CFPB, he created a situation in which any actions taken by the agency would be open to legal threats. Now their actions and authority leave even greater uncertainty for consumers and businesses alike.” ###
01.14.2013	Gastonia, N.C. - Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) recently participated in a ribbon cutting ceremony for his new Gastonia office with small business leaders and elected officials from across Gaston County. The office will serve the residents of Gaston County and surrounding areas, with staff on hand daily Monday through Friday. share: f t McHenry Opens Gastonia Office Gastonia, N.C. - Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) recently participated in a ribbon cutting ceremony for his new Gastonia office with small business leaders and elected officials from across Gaston County. The office will serve the residents of Gaston County and surrounding areas, with staff on hand daily Monday through Friday. "My number one priority as a representative has always been to provide the best constituent services possible. If folks have an issue they need assistance with, we're here to help and answer any questions we can. I'd personally like to thank our Gaston County Commissioners for providing us with this space." Constituents who need assistance working with the Small Business Administration, Social Security Administration, with Medicare, Veterans benefits, procuring a passport, or other issues with the federal government will be welcomed by a full-time staff. The office is fully operational as of today. The ribbon cutting ceremony was attended by members of the Gaston County Commission including Chad Brown, Joe Carpenter, Tom Keigher, Tracy Philbeck, and Mickey Price; Clerk of Court Larry Brown, Register of Deeds Susan Lockridge, District Attorney Locke Bell, Dallas Mayor Ric Coleman, as well as representatives from the Gaston Regional Chamber of Commerce and Montcross Chamber of Commerce. The office is located in Suite 115 of the Gaston County Administration Building at 128 West Main Avenue in Gastonia. Congressional staff can be reached by phone at 704-833-0096. ###
12.21.2012	Incoming Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) announced today that Congressman Patrick McHenry will lead the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee in the 113th Congress. share: f t McHenry selected Chairman of Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Washington, DC – Incoming Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) announced today that Congressman Patrick McHenry will lead the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee in the 113th Congress. In this position, Congressman McHenry will provide oversight of the Federal Reserve, Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Export-Import Bank. “I’m grateful to Chairman Hensarling for this new opportunity,” said Congressman McHenry. “Government regulators need proper oversight in order to avoid bureaucratic overreach. I’m excited to exert greater influence over that process and look forward to ensuring that small businesses across Western North Carolina are able to access the capital they need to grow and expand.” “Patrick is a trusted friend and advisor," continued Chairman Hensarling. "His exemplary efforts overseeing the SEC and CFPB have been critical for small businesses and entrepreneurs across the country. As part of the committee's leadership team, I know he'll continue to fight for efficient markets that support the free flow of capital to every aspect of our economy." ###
09.17.2012	Washington, D.C.-Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, received the Friend of Farm Bureau Award from local representatives of the farming community. Julie Lehmann of Gaston County, Cathy Lewis of Catawba County, and Linda Wyant of Lincoln County were on hand to present the award. share: f t Washington, D.C.-Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, received the Friend of Farm Bureau Award from local representatives of the agriculture community. Julie Lehmann of Gaston County, Cathy Lewis of Catawba County, and Linda Wyant of Lincoln County were on hand to present the award. “It’s an honor to accept this award,” said Congressman McHenry. “Farmers and others in the agriculture business work so hard to provide the necessities that the rest of us sometimes take for granted. I’m proud to do what I can to help North Carolina farmers.” The “Friend of Farm Bureau” award is given at the end of each Congress to those members of Congress who were nominated by their respective state Farm Bureaus and approved by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors. This award is based upon voting records on AFBF’s priority issues established by the Board of Directors, number of bills that a member has sponsored and co-sponsored, specific leadership role for Farm Bureau on priority issues, and how accessible and responsive that member is to Farm Bureau members and leaders. In addition, the state Farm Bureau lists any other specific reasons why that member should receive this award. ###
07.24.2012	Presented in coordination with Clark Fields and Mary Romano from the Small Business Technology Development Center. share: f t What: Government Contracting & Exporting Workshop Who: Clark Fields & Mary Romano from the Small Business Technology Development Center When: Wednesdsay, August 8 – 8:00am - Noon Where: Lincoln County Senior Center – Multipurpose Room 514 South Academy Street Lincolnton, NC 28093 Doing Business with the Government Companies interested in selling to federal, state and local government agencies must learn how the government conducts business. Join us and learn how to register your business, identify sales opportunities, understand the bid process, evaluate solicitations and find assistance resources. Presented by Clark Fields, Procurement Counselor with the Small Business and Technology Development Center (SBTDC) Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC). Those attending will come away with the tools to increase their government sales efforts. Exporting Companies looking to increase sales, reduce dependence on the domestic market and stabilize seasonal fluctuations should consider exporting. In this economy you cannot leave any stone unturned! Come learn what kinds of tools you need in your toolbox to become a global competitor and find out what government programs are there to help. Presented by Mary Romano, SBTDC International Business Development Counselor. Eileen Joyce, Marketing and Outreach Manager for the Small Business Administration, will also be on hand to provide information and answer questions of general interest to entrepreneurs. These workshops are absolutely free. To ensure adequate materials, please RSVP by August 3 to Christine Conant of SBTDC at 828-345-1110 or conantca@appstate.edu. For directions, contact David McCrary at 828-327-6100 or david.mccrary@mail.house.gov
07.11.2012	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after joining with other members of the North Carolina delegation to vote for repeal of ObamaCare. Eight of the thirteen members of the NC delegation, including two Democrats, voted to repeal the law. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement after joining with other members of the North Carolina delegation to vote for repeal of ObamaCare. Eight of the thirteen members of the NC delegation, including two Democrats, voted to repeal the law. “With bipartisan support, Congress has listened to the American people and voted to repeal ObamaCare yet again,” Congressman McHenry said. “Increasing taxes on hard-working Americans and small businesses by nearly $800 billion over the next decade will not fix our healthcare system. The President and Democrats in control of the Senate have had years to do the right thing and join us to work on real, patient-centered healthcare reform. This November, the American people can decide the outcome of this debate once and for all.” ###
06.28.2012	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) vowed to continue efforts to repeal and replace ObamaCare after today’s Supreme Court decision largely upheld the law. The 5-4 decision keeps the controversial healthcare law in place. To date, Republicans have voted to repeal, defund, or dismantle provisions of the president’s government takeover of healthcare law 30 times. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) vowed to continue efforts to repeal and replace ObamaCare after today’s Supreme Court decision largely upheld the law. The 5-4 decision keeps the controversial healthcare law in place. To date, Republicans have voted to repeal, defund, or dismantle provisions of the president’s government takeover of healthcare law 30 times. “In the midst of a grim economic recession, this unpopular healthcare takeover made things worse,” Congressman McHenry said. “There’s no doubt this law has created a great deal of uncertainty, keeping many small business owners from hiring new workers and acting as a serious impediment to economic growth.” In a January 2012 U.S. Chamber of Commerce survey of small businesses, 74 percent said that the health care law makes it harder for their firms to hire new workers and 30 percent said they are not hiring at all thanks to the law. In addition, according to a February 2012 Gallup poll, almost half of small businesses said they were not hiring due to concerns about possible rising health care costs and worries about new government regulations. “Regardless of the Supreme Court’s decision, ObamaCare is still bad policy that needs to be replaced with patient-centered reforms that will actually lower the cost of care,” McHenry continued. “We should enact medical liability reform, make insurance companies compete for patients business by allowing them to shop across state lines, and expand health savings accounts that give taxpayers control over their own health care decisions. Until we enact real change, premiums will continue to rise for millions of American families.” ###
06.20.2012	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement after voting to approve the Oversight and Government Reform Committee report finding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress in light of his refusal to produce documents related to Operation Fast and Furious share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement after voting to approve the Oversight and Government Reform Committee report finding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress in light of his refusal to produce documents related to Operation Fast and Furious: “The public has a right to know the truth about Operation Fast and Furious. Unfortunately the Department of Justice and Attorney General Eric Holder haven't provided anything close. It’s both outrageous and deeply saddening for a government official to act with such disregard for the American people and the family of Agent Brian Terry. The American people expect justice but have instead seen nothing but obstruction and intimidation from Attorney General Holder.” The Committee today approved the finding of contempt on a vote of 23 to 17. ###
05.03.2012	Hickory - Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement on House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa's release of a staff briefing paper and draft of the contempt of Congress resolution against Attorney General Eric Holder for stonewalling the American people during the investigation of Operation Fast and Furious: "The American people have a right to know the truth about deadly Operation Fast and Furious and deserve accountability from the Obama Justice Department and Attorney General Eric Holder. But for far too long, the Attorney General has refused to cooperate with our Congressional investigation and instead chosen to carry out a campaign of stonewalling, half-truths and outright lies. I have reviewed Chairman Issa's briefing paper and contempt of Congress resolution and fully support its findings. I will encourage Chairman Issa and the Oversight Committee to move forward with the contempt resolution as soon as possible." Learn more about the Oversight Committee investigation at FastAndFuriousInvestigation.com. ###
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) applauded House passage of H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The package of legislation enjoyed broad bipartisan support, passing by a vote of 390 to 23. share: f t WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) applauded House passage of H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The package of legislation enjoyed broad bipartisan support, passing by a vote of 390 to 23. The JOBS Act is a collection of commonsense, bipartisan provisions designed to ignite small business creation and encourage capital formation through the removal and modernization of regulatory barriers that are holding back entrepreneurs and preventing small businesses from expanding. This bipartisan legislation has received support from the President and now awaits action in the Senate. “The JOBS Act gives small businesses the tools they need to expand and create jobs,” McHenry stated. “It’s good to see the President get behind our efforts to revive the economy and I’m hopeful that he can push the Senate to act. Reducing red tape and helping entrepreneurs is more important than partisan politics.” Small businesses and entrepreneurs are the backbone of the US economy, generating 60 percent of all new jobs in this country. Three years into our economic recovery, America’s labor and capital markets continue to face unprecedented challenges. Entrepreneurship is at a 17 year low and new-business creation has dropped 23 percent since 2007. With unemployment over 8 percent for the past 36 months, the need for regulatory reform and increased access to capital for small businesses is urgent. The Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act (H.R. 2930), which was introduced by Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), is one of the six bills included in the JOBS Act. This legislation is designed to reduce regulatory burdens and allow entrepreneurs greater access to capital from a large pool of small investors. “Crowdfunding is a key component of the JOBS Act,” McHenry continued. “Economists predict the legislation will lead to a ten percent increase in new business startups, helping to create at least 170,000 jobs in the next five years. This bill is critical in getting our economy back on the right track.” H.R. 2930 ensures that our small businesses are not left behind. This important legislation provides a crowdfunding exemption to SEC registration requirements for firms raising up to $2 million, with individual investments limited to $10,000 or 10 percent of an investor’s income. The legislation also erases limits on the number of investors that can participate in crowdfunding, extending investment opportunities to everyday investors that are currently not an option under SEC regulation. ###
03.07.2012	Photo of National Gourd Lady Margaret "Sparky" Sparkman of Conover courtesy The Observer News Enterprise. Conover – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement regarding the passing of Margaret “Sparky” Sparkman, known by many as the Gourd Lady: “I’m deeply saddened to hear about the passing of 'the Gourd Lady.' Sparky was a national treasure and a big asset to our region, making the national news and even an appearance on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. She was a tireless supporter of the YMCA of Catawba Valley for over thirty-five years. An important part of GOP Lincoln Day Dinners and other events for many years, I still cherish the elephant gourd I purchased years ago. Her talent and love of life were truly contagious.” ###
02.13.2012	Washington, D.C.-Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following statement regarding the release of President Obama’s budget plan: share: f t Washington, D.C.-Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following statement regarding the release of President Obama’s budget plan: “When this President took office in 2009, he promised to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term. Here we are three years and five trillion dollars further in debt. The President has refused to work with Republicans to rein in out-of-control spending and in doing so he has broken his promise to the American people.” ###
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman Patrick McHenry echoed President Obama’s comments today, insisting that the United States Senate pass crowdfunding legislation to free up capital for entrepreneurs. Crowdfunding allows everyday investors the opportunity to support intriguing startups and small businesses, providing much-needed capital for economic growth and job creation. The proposal represents a point of agreement between Republicans and the White House regarding regulatory reform to ease costly burdens on small businesses. “There’s one bill that has been written, amended, and passed with bipartisan support,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Senate can pass H.R. 2930 and have it on the President’s desk today.” The Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, which was introduced by Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) and passed 407-17 with broad, bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, has been awaiting action by the Senate Banking Committee. H.R. 2930 provides a crowdfunding exemption to SEC registration requirements for firms raising up to $2 million, with individual investments limited to $10,000 or 10 percent of an investor’s income. The legislation also erases limits on the number of investors that can participate in crowdfunding, extending investment opportunities to everyday investors that are currently not an option under SEC regulation. Specifically the bill will do the following: - Create a crowdfunding exemption from SEC regulations for firms raising $2 million, with a financial audit requirement for any amount over $1 million. - Individual investments limited to $10,000 or 10 percent of an investor’s annual income. - Excludes crowdfunding investors from counting as shareholders for purposes of calculating the 499-shareholder cap under 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act. - Preempt state law and exempts the ban on general solicitation for the new crowdfunding exemption. - Preserves states authority to monitor and fight fraud. Visit mchenry.house.gov/crowdfunding for more information about H.R. 2930 ###
01.12.2012	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following remarks after tornadoes in Rutherford, Burke, and Caldwell Counties caused property damage and injured a number of residents: share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following remarks after tornadoes in Rutherford, Burke, and Caldwell Counties caused property damage and injured a number of residents: "First and foremost, our thoughts and prayers go out to those affected by last night's devastating storms. My office has been in contact overnight and this morning with both FEMA and the NC Division of Emergency Management. We'll continue to work with the appropriate agencies to facilitate aid programs and help folks rebuild and recover." ###
01.04.2012	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks in response to President Obama’s appointment of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks in response to President Obama’s appointment of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “The President should stop allowing his Chicago political campaign to make his Washington policy decisions. The unprecedented appointment of Mr. Cordray runs counter to the constitutional requirements for a recess appointment and Obama’s own campaign pledge to run ‘the most transparent administration in history.’ There are legitimate policy concerns about the structure of the CFPB. They can be reconciled, but the President refuses to even have the conversation. “The enormous authority put in the hands of a single director for the CFPB must be accompanied by appropriate congressional oversight. Accordingly, I wrote Mr. Cordray today requesting that he live up to his promise of transparency and testify before my subcommittee on January 24th.” ### McHenry Hearing Invitation Cordray-CFPB
11.17.2011	Washington, DC – Seventy-two House Republicans, led by Congressman Patrick McHenry, sent a letter to the members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction today urging them not to raise taxes. share: f t Washington, DC – Seventy-two House Republicans, led by Congressman Patrick McHenry, sent a letter to the members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction today urging them not to raise taxes. “Tax increases aren’t going to get our economy back on the right track,” McHenry stated. “We need real solutions to address runaway spending. Raising taxes will only further damage the economy, discourage private sector investment, and hurt Americans struggling to make ends meet.” Republican Study Committee Chairman Jim Jordan added, “Cutting back the national debt will require stronger private sector job growth and less government spending. Raising taxes would just take us further away from both goals.” The full text of the letter is included below. Dear Representative Hensarling, Senator Murray, and Members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: It is evident that America has a fiscal crisis because Washington spends too much, not because it taxes too little. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, tax revenues will reach or exceed the historical average of 18 percent of economic output by the end of this decade, even as spending continues to increase at an unsustainable rate. Increasing taxes on Americans would destroy jobs, erase all hope of an economic recovery, and simply serve to feed out-of-control spending in Washington. Thus, as you continue the important task to reach a deficit reduction agreement, we ask that any policies the Joint Select Committee prescribes not increase Americans’ tax burden. With current levels of taxation already limiting economic growth, we believe that marginal rates must be maintained or lowered and that repeal of any tax credit or deduction be offset with an equal or greater tax cut. Although there are diverse beliefs toward specific policies that should be included in any deficit reduction plan, we must recognize that increasing the tax burden on American businesses and citizens, especially during a fragile recovery, is irresponsible and dangerous to the health of the United States. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry Member of Congress To view the full list of Members who have signed on to this letter, click here. To view the letter, click here. ###
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, applauded House passage of the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, H.R. 2930. The legislation enjoyed broad bipartisan support, passing by a vote of 407 to 17 and receiving a supportive Statement of Administration Policy* from the President. share: f t WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, applauded House passage of the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act, H.R. 2930. The legislation enjoyed broad bipartisan support, passing by a vote of 407 to 17 and receiving a supportive Statement of Administration Policy* from the President. “Small business folks in Western North Carolina tell me time and time again that uncertainty and over-regulation are hampering their growth. So it unfortunately comes as no surprise that over two years into a sluggish economic recovery, nearly 14 million Americans remain unemployed as entrepreneurs continue to struggle with gaining access to much needed capital," McHenry said. "It’s clear that we need new ways to help small businesses and entrepreneurs take their ideas from the dinner table to the production line. The first step is to modernize outdated regulations that stand as barriers to American innovation. This legislation will ensure that our small businesses are not left behind. Crowdfunding can help give them the means to create jobs for hard-working individuals here at home." Specifically the bill will do the following: - Create a crowdfunding exemption from SEC regulations for firms raising up to $2 million, with individual investments limited to $10,000 or 10 percent of an investor’s annual income. - Excludes crowdfunding investors from counting as shareholders for purposes of calculating the 499-shareholder cap under 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act - Preempt state law and exempts the ban on general solicitation for the new crowdfunding exemption. *Statement of Administation Policy Visit mchenry.house.gov/crowdfunding for more information about H.R. 2930 ###
10.24.2011	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks in advance of President’s Obama’s declaration that “We can’t wait” for lawmakers to act: share: f t Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks in advance of President’s Obama’s declaration that “We can’t wait” for lawmakers to act: “Today’s announcement by the President is just another step in the floundering strategy of an administration that has been grossly incapable of providing meaningful solutions to help struggling homeowners. When it comes to this Administration’s housing policies, the time to act has long since passed. More than 6 million Americans are behind on their mortgage payments or facing foreclosure and the policies of this President have done more harm than good.” McHenry is the author of House-passed legislation to repeal the Administration’s disastrous Home Affordable Mortgage Program. Based on anecdotes and data provided by the Treasury Department, HAMP actually harmed, rather than helped, thousands of participants. As of August, HAMP had only provided approximately 816,000 loan modifications, or less than 1 in 4 of those who applied. Additionally, only 838,000 homeowners were able to refinance through HARP, after the administration estimated it would help 4 to 5 million borrowers. ###
10.12.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following remarks Wednesday after a series of trade-related votes on the House floor. Among the measures considered, he voted to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program for three years, as well as to oppose the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following remarks Wednesday after a series of trade-related votes on the House floor. Among the measures considered, he voted to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program for three years, as well as to oppose the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). For workers who see their jobs sent overseas, TAA provides training and support to help them transition to new employment. A long-time supporter of TAA, Congressman McHenry has often broken with his own party to vote for extending the program which heavily impacts the 10th District. “TAA is a critically important program for Western North Carolina. Our region has been hit hard by the effects of bad trade deals, and I remain committed to making sure our workers have the tools, training, and resources they need to get back on their feet and start new careers,” said Congressman McHenry. This measure to reauthorize the TAA program is contained in a Senate amendment to HR 2832, which passed in the House today by a vote of 307 to 122. In a separate vote today on the House floor, Congressman McHenry opposed the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). “Bad trade deals like this one are the reason we have the TAA program. They have already placed a huge burden on North Carolina textile workers – and this deal stands only to make things worse. “We should be entering trade agreements that favor American manufacturing by leveling the playing field. This deal provides little opportunity for American textile products to be exported to South Korea, while providing a wealth of opportunity for the South Korean textile industry to export to the US. I made a promise to my constituents that I would fight against trade deals like this one that fails to protect Western North Carolina workers. This flawed agreement will result in the continued outsourcing of valuable textile, apparel and other manufacturing jobs, and I voted ‘no.’” KORUS passed in the House today by a vote of 278 to 151. The U.S.-Colombia and U.S.-Panama Free Trade Agreements passed the House on Wednesday, as well. ###
08.01.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote in favor of the House-passed debt reduction plan, known as the Budget Control Act of 2011. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote in favor of the House-passed debt reduction plan, known as the Budget Control Act of 2011. “In January 2009, President Obama initiated the biggest spending binge in our nation’s history with his trillion dollar ‘stimulus’ package. He sold it with the promise that more Washington spending would save us from the prospect of 8% unemployment. Today, after suffering 27 months of nearly 9% unemployment, we are now on the verge of cutting nearly $2 trillion from our federal budget. If this debt limit debate has accomplished one thing, it has changed the conversation in Washington. “Today’s debt deal represents an absolute repudiation of President Obama’s tax and spend policies. Throughout this debate, the President has pushed for a ‘clean’ debt limit increase, and then for tax increases to accompany any spending cuts. He received none of these. Instead, we’ve achieved spending cuts that exceed the debt limit increase – without raising taxes. This plan is a meaningful first step towards fixing Washington’s spending addiction and putting us on a path towards a balanced budget.” ###
07.29.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote in favor of the House-passed Budget Control Act, legislation that will prevent a default on our national debt, while cutting $22 billion in spending next year and $917 billion over the next 10 years. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote in favor of the House-passed Budget Control Act, legislation that will prevent a default on our national debt, while cutting $22 billion in spending next year and $917 billion over the next 10 years. “Navigating our way out of this debt crisis requires responsible governing. Earlier this year when the government was on the brink of a shutdown, I voted against Speaker Boehner’s compromise with President Obama because it didn’t cut enough spending. The plan I voted for tonight makes real and substantial cuts to the federal budget. While President Obama attempts to raise taxes and delay confronting our debt crisis until after the 2012 elections, our plan rejects the notion that higher taxes can solve our problems. Raising taxes is the last thing that we should be doing in this economy. "I have heard your message loud and clear. Tonight, House Republicans put substantive policy before presidential politics. The consequences of inaction are dire – our impeccable credit rating and the health of our economy hang in the balance. Our plan contains real spending cuts and forces the Senate to vote on systemic reform. Finally, while this is the first step to real fiscal restraint, the only way to truly fix Washington's spending addiction is to enact a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution.” ###
07.08.2011	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks regarding the release of June employment numbers: share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks regarding the release of June employment numbers: “The word I hear most from small business folks: uncertainty. Uncertainty costs jobs and that’s what we’re seeing in this report. Unfortunately, federal policy is creating this uncertainty and it's further proof that the President’s economic policies are failing. Small businesses cannot thrive under the burdensome regulations and taxes in ObamaCare and are struggling to get lending under Dodd-Frank. The debt hangover from the failed “stimulus” is costing us jobs. Now is the time to restore fiscal responsibility in our government and reject tax increases – our job creators deserve nothing less.” ###
05.02.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the news that Osama Bin Laden was killed in a U.S. operation in Pakistan: share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the news that Osama Bin Laden was killed in a U.S. operation in Pakistan: "There is a certain form of justice in the fact that the last thing Osama Bin Laden saw on this earth was an American soldier. Special thanks goes to the best and brightest who serve our nation in the armed forces, especially the elite team of Navy SEALs who achieved their mission on Sunday," said Congressman McHenry. "In the wake of this substantial news, we must honor those that lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and those brave men and women who gave that last full measure on the battlefield defending our nation." ###
04.15.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today after his vote in favor of the House-passed Republican budget resolution, sponsored by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI). share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today after his vote in favor of the House-passed Republican budget resolution, sponsored by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI). “Our budget crisis is simple – we’re spending money we don't have, creating a massive budget deficit, and leaving an enormous national debt. Today, I voted for a budget that balances and takes a bold step towards solving the spending problem we’ve ignored for too long,” said Congressman McHenry. “President Obama has proven unwilling to make the tough decisions to confront the reality of our debt crisis. If the President will not lead, I hope he will follow House Republicans in acting now to preserve the entitlement programs that will soon threaten to bankrupt our economy. We must be clear – under our plan, those currently receiving Social Security and Medicare and those near retirement age won’t see changes or cuts. We will fulfill our promises to seniors today - and provide solutions that will ensure health and retirement security for future generations.” ###
02.14.2011	Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following statement today regarding the resignation of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program Neil Barofsky share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following statement today regarding the resignation of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program Neil Barofsky: “Mr. Barofsky has always been a straight shooter. I’d like to thank him for being a very thoughtful and diligent overseer of the TARP program. His service has been exemplary. Since there is still much work to be done, I expect President Obama to nominate a successor who is as dedicated, honest, and forthright as Mr. Barofsky has been.” ###
01.27.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks today regarding the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission majority and minority reports. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following remarks today regarding the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission majority and minority reports: “The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission has been likened to the 1930's investigation led by Ferdinand Pecora. However, this is no Pecora. Pecora resulted in a unified report with a unified narrative. The FCIC has fallen well short of unity. “The fact that three differing opinions have emerged from a body of only ten commissioners brings into question the objectivity of the majority report. The subcommittee I lead intends to review these efforts and the process from which they resulted.” ###
01.26.2011	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement after receiving the Quarterly Report to Congress of Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program [SIGTARP] Neil Barofsky. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, issued the following statement after receiving the Quarterly Report to Congress of Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program [SIGTARP] Neil Barofsky. “Mr. Barofsky’s findings are deeply troubling. This report clearly shows that TARP created significant moral hazard and rather than eliminating ‘Too Big to Fail,’ the Dodd-Frank regulations codify bad policy in to law. This is not only putting smaller institutions at a competitive disadvantage, it is a continuation of the perverse incentives that led to the original crisis. “Furthermore, the so-called Home Affordable Modification Program [HAMP] yet again gets a failing grade. What will it take for the Treasury to realize that serious changes must be made to this program? Homeowners are hurting and this program continues to do more harm than good. “As part of our Pledge to America, House Republicans promised to put an end to taxpayer funded bailouts. As Chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs I intend to bring attention to this important issue.” ###
01.25.2011	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after President Obama’s State of the Union address. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after President Obama’s State of the Union address. “President Obama used the language of fiscal responsibility, but what he’s proposing is another stimulus and state bailout. That’s the wrong approach. If his free-spending policies of the past two years worked, then we wouldn’t still be looking at almost 10% unemployment. “It’s our deficits and debt that are hurting our competitiveness and job creators. We need real spending cuts today in order to spur job growth, not another Presidential pledge to ‘freeze’ some spending.” ###
01.19.2011	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement after voting to repeal the health care law signed into law last year by President Obama. H.R. 2, the Repeal the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 245 to 189. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement after voting to repeal the health care law signed into law last year by President Obama. H.R. 2, the Repeal the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 245 to 189. “Today, House Republicans took a major step in keeping our Pledge to America by voting to dismantle this job-destroying law. ObamaCare is a budget buster – costing billions in higher and new taxes, while adding to the national debt. “Just yesterday, President Obama spoke out against the anti-business, burdensome federal regulations that plague our government. However, his healthcare bill would create over ten thousand pages of new regulations should it be fully implemented. I challenge him to join the House of Representatives in listening to the American people and support the repeal and replacement of this law with common sense reforms that actually lower costs. “Simply put, this law costs too much and adds to the economic uncertainty facing our nation’s job creators. New taxes – to the tune of $570 billion – and a new employer mandate will only make things worse for small businesses. Congress needs to be in the business of eliminating barriers to job creation, not adding to them. ###
12.21.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), who is currently the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, released the following statement upon the Census Bureau’s announcement of apportionment data from the 2010 Census: share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), who is currently the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, released the following statement upon the Census Bureau’s announcement of apportionment data from the 2010 Census: “I congratulate the Census Bureau on the timely release of this important data. Bureau officials and thousands of employees have worked hard to ensure that every American was counted. I look forward to the rollout of the full data this spring. “The numbers released today show a clear pattern of migration away from the industrial Midwest and Northeast, toward the South and Southwest. It is no coincidence that the states gaining population the fastest over the last ten years have lower tax rates and, consequently, stronger economies. As states draw new Congressional districts to reflect this shift, we will certainly see more Republicans in the US House.” ###
12.20.2010	Last Friday, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee incoming Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) named Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) the Chairman of the Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs. share: f t Last Friday, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee incoming Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) named Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) the Chairman of the Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs. “Over the past three years, our government has committed trillions of taxpayer dollars to bail out private institutions without proper oversight. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are at the core of this economic crisis, yet continue to have access to the taxpayers’ pocketbook,” said McHenry. “This Administration has taken unprecedented action in the financial and capital markets – now it’s time we hold them accountable. I look forward to leading this Committee’s charge to bring transparency, openness, and solutions for the challenges facing our financial system.” “Patrick will be at the heart of our Committee’s effort to make the federal bureaucracy more accountable for how it spends the American people’s money,” Issa said. “On this Subcommittee, Patrick will be able to champion the American people’s right to know – fighting for more transparency and more answers on what led to this financial meltdown and how we can avoid a similar collapse in the future. He will help lead this Committee’s interface with the financial services industry and ensure that both government and private enterprises are held accountable for how they spend taxpayer dollars.” ###
12.16.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for H.R. 4853 tonight, which prevents tax rate increases from taking effect on January 1, 2011. The bill passed by a vote of 277 to 148. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for H.R. 4853 tonight, which prevents tax rate increases from taking effect on January 1, 2011. The bill passed by a vote of 277 to 148. “We need to make these tax cuts permanent, bottom line. A last-minute, two year extension does not alleviate the massive uncertainty faced by small businesses,” said McHenry. “However, the short term consequences of failing to act now would be devastating - our economy is too fragile. We can’t afford to gamble on a Democratic Senate and President supporting a better deal in January. It would squander our ability in the Majority to fight for the long term solution that we need.” The centerpiece of the tax agreement is the two-year extension of the 2001/2003 tax rates, set to expire at the end of the month. The other key provisions are as follows: Tax Breaks for Businesses – Allows businesses to write off 100% of equipment purchases made between Sept. 8, 2010 and Jan. 1, 2012. Extends a range of expired business-tax breaks including the research-and-development credit. Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) patch – Shields most taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax in 2010 and 2011. Reduction in the Estate Tax – Reduced to a 35% on estates worth more than $5 million for individuals and $10 million on couples. Under current law, this tax would be reinstated in 2011 at a rate of 55% on estates worth more than $1 million. Reduction in the Payroll Tax – Federal payroll taxes reduced for one year by two percentage points to 4.2% from 6.2%. Extension of Unemployment Insurance – Jobless benefits extended for 13 months. This extension will not affect people who have already exhausted the maximum combined state and federal assistance of 99 weeks. It would make sure that the long-term unemployed in states hardest hit by the economic downturn would be able to receive as many as 99 weeks, rather than the 26 weeks normally available. ###
12.14.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the Information Policy, Census, and National Archives Subcommittee, issued the following statement today following his vote against S. 3167, the “Census Oversight Efficiency and Management Reform Act.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the Information Policy, Census, and National Archives Subcommittee, issued the following statement today following his vote against S. 3167, the “Census Oversight Efficiency and Management Reform Act.” “The census is a multi-billion dollar and very important endeavor. It's important the process be independent, while also holding its leadership accountable. This bill does not achieve that balance,” said McHenry. “With the 2010 Census results being released next week, it is premature to consider this bill now – especially when we haven’t had a single hearing on any provision in this bill.” Click here to watch Congressman McHenry’s remarks during today’s debate on S. 3167 on the House floor. ###
12.13.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today in response to news that a federal judge in Virginia declared the “individual mandate” provision in the new health care law to be unconstitutional. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today in response to news that a federal judge in Virginia declared the “individual mandate” provision in the new health care law to be unconstitutional. “The individual mandate is the centerpiece of ObamaCare, and the Administration has argued that the penalty for not purchasing health coverage under the law is a ‘tax.’ However, any rational person would agree that this fee is clearly punishment for not purchasing a product,” said McHenry. “This is a well-reasoned decision that upholds what most Americans believe to be the proper, constitutional boundaries of the federal government. I am hopeful the Supreme Court will agree that ObamaCare goes far beyond the limits our founders placed on the federal government’s powers.” ###
12.08.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote against the DREAM Act. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement tonight after his vote against the DREAM Act. “Democrats ignored the will of the American people and chose to pass a bill that immediately places over a million illegal aliens on a path to citizenship, rewarding those who unlawfully entered the United States with the ability to petition for their family members to gain full citizenship. “Why should the multitudes of people waiting to enter this country legally be skipped over in favor of those who broke the law? Amnesty is not the solution to our immigration problem, and I won't support it.” Background on the DREAM Act: The DREAM Act gives illegal immigrants amnesty, encourages more illegal immigration and inevitably takes jobs from American workers. Estimates that the bill only applies to 875,000 illegal immigrants are misleading. According to the Migration Policy Institute, an estimated two million illegal immigrants will be eligible for amnesty under this bill. Once amnesty recipients become citizens and turn 21, they can sponsor their illegal immigrant parents for legalization. This kind of chain migration only encourages more illegal immigration, as parents will bring their children to the U.S. in hopes of receiving citizenship. The bill also is a magnet for fraud. Many illegal immigrants will falsely claim that they arrived in the U.S. before age 16. Once an application is filed, no matter how fraudulent, the federal government is prohibited from deporting the applicant. Meanwhile, they will be given work authorization to compete for jobs with the 9.8% of Americans who are currently unemployed. ###
12.02.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today following his vote against H.R. 4853, the "Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2010, Part III." In a ploy to force a vote that would raise taxes on small business owners, Democrat leaders exploited current House rules with an amendment to strip the contents of an unrelated bill and replace it with the new "Middle Class Tax Relief Act." H.R. 4853 passed the House by a vote of 234 to 188. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today following his vote against H.R. 4853, the "Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2010, Part III." In a ploy to force a vote that would raise taxes on small business owners, Democrat leaders exploited current House rules with an amendment to strip the contents of an unrelated bill and replace it with the new "Middle Class Tax Relief Act." H.R. 4853 passed the House by a vote of 234 to 188. “What we’ve witnessed today on the House floor is precisely why Americans voted to remove the gavel from Speaker Pelosi’s control. Raising taxes on any group, especially small business owners, is unconscionable during these tough economic times.” said McHenry. “This vote is simply a political stunt by Democrats who know that the White House and Republican leaders are negotiating in good faith to reach a compromise.” ###
11.11.2010	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) attended and made remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony for Facebook’s new Rutherford Data Center in Forest City. Construction of the data center officially began today and is expected to continue over the next 18 months. The facility will house thousands of computer servers that will store data and respond to user requests and interactions through the Facebook website. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) attended and made remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony for Facebook’s new Rutherford Data Center in Forest City. Construction of the data center officially began today and is expected to continue over the next 18 months. The facility will house thousands of computer servers that will store data and respond to user requests and interactions through the Facebook website. Facebook’s Rutherford Data Center is one of the first of its kind built and owned by the company, and is the company’s first data center located outside of the Pacific Northwest. Facebook anticipates a capital investment in the data center and its servers of $450 million over five years. The Rutherford facility will employ 250 or more during its construction, and will hire a staff of 35 to 45 full-time and contract employees. “The Facebook brand represents constant innovation, expansion, and investment in new ideas. These are the core components of our country’s job-creation engine,” said McHenry. “We see the results of that here today, as Facebook’s success has brought them to Forest City to make a great investment in this community. These are the jobs Western North Carolina needs to push forward in an economy increasingly dependent on new technologies.” ###
10.14.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) was named today to Time Magazine’s list of “40 Under 40,” recognizing “a new generation of civic leaders trying to fix a broken system – and restore faith in the political process.” This is the first year the magazine has compiled this list. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) was named today to Time Magazine’s list of “40 Under 40,” recognizing “a new generation of civic leaders trying to fix a broken system – and restore faith in the political process.” This is the first year the magazine has compiled this list. In his profile, McHenry, 34, is mentioned for his efforts to “restore fiscal sanity.” When asked what the most overlooked issue facing America is, McHenry responded that “[w]e absolutely need to reform the Congressional budget-writing process.” “It’s an honor to be included on a list that includes soon-to-be Senator Marco Rubio, Governor Bobby Jindal, and colleagues like Devin Nunes,” said McHenry. “I look forward to working with many of these young leaders to get our country back on the right track.” McHenry was first elected to Congress at the age of 29, after serving a term in the N.C. House of Representatives. He is seeking re-election to his fourth term in the U.S. House. ###
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted in favor of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. This bill takes a measured response to unfair currency manipulation by China and other countries, which has cost the U.S. more than one million jobs during the last decade, including hundreds of thousands of textile and apparel jobs. Congressman McHenry is a co-sponsor of this legislation. H.R. 2378 passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 348-79. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted in favor of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. This bill takes a measured response to unfair currency manipulation by China and other countries, which has cost the U.S. more than one million jobs during the last decade, including hundreds of thousands of textile and apparel jobs. Congressman McHenry is a co-sponsor of this legislation. H.R. 2378 passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 348-79. “We need to send a strong message to China to abandon its predatory currency practices, and this bill does just that,” said Congressman McHenry. “Should the Chinese refuse, this bill provides our manufacturers the tools needed to defend their livelihood when it’s undermined by foreign governments. China’s aggressive trade policies and currency manipulation have devastated Western North Carolina’s manufacturing base. I am more than happy to join a bipartisan effort to stand up for hard working Americans.” H.R. 2378 has been constructed to stay consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO) rules and other international obligations. This legislation also ensures that China and other nations will have no grounds to retaliate against any trading partner, and tasks the Commerce Department to investigate alleged currency undervaluation as a prohibited export subsidy on a case-by-case basis. ###
09.24.2010	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), outspoken critic of ACORN, issued the following statement in response to a report released by the Inspections and Evaluations Division of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) “detailing the results of its investigation of grant funds awarded under HUD’s Housing Counseling Program to ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc. (AHC) of Chicago, now operating as Affordable Housing Centers of America (AHCOA).” share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), outspoken critic of ACORN, issued the following statement in response to a report released by the Inspections and Evaluations Division of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) “detailing the results of its investigation of grant funds awarded under HUD’s Housing Counseling Program to ACORN Housing Corporation, Inc. (AHC) of Chicago, now operating as Affordable Housing Centers of America (AHCOA).” The report showed that ACORN received $3,252,399 in housing counseling grants between 2008 and 2009, of which more than $2.544 million (nearly 80%) were used to pay ACORN’s salaries. The findings show that ACORN may have concealed fraud by destroying or failing to produce records of the disbursement of these funds, which does not comply with federal grant requirements. As such, the HUD Inspector General recommended that AHCOA be placed on ‘inactive’ status. “We really didn’t need any more evidence that ACORN – and all of its arms – is a criminal organization,” said Congressman McHenry. “I applaud the Inspector General for recommending that this ACORN spin-off be cut off from government funding. It is outrageous that the American taxpayer is still footing this disgraced organization’s bill when it has consistently evaded its responsibility to comply with federal law.” ###
09.23.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement today after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda that outlines concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, healthcare, and government reform. The full agenda can be viewed here. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement today after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda that outlines concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, healthcare, and government reform. The full agenda can be viewed here. “For the past two years, we have watched as a Democrat agenda, built on promises of ‘change,’ has resulted in exploding deficits, a record national debt, a job-killing healthcare takeover, and a complete failure to combat rising unemployment,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am excited to join my colleagues today in making our Pledge to America by offering a concrete, governing agenda that takes immediate action to create jobs, cut spending, and change the way Congress does business. This pledge is the product of months spent listening to Americans’ concerns and ideas at town halls, rallies, and online. “If one thing was apparent at all my town hall meetings across the Tenth District, it’s that the American people demand solutions now. There is no reason why they should have to wait until after the November elections for Congress to take decisive action to cut taxes and end the uncertainty that hurts the ability of small business to create jobs.” ###
09.17.2010	This afternoon, President Obama announced that Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren has been appointed Assistant to the President and Special Advisor to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. share: f t This afternoon, President Obama announced that Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren has been appointed Assistant to the President and Special Advisor to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. In this role, she will build the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau [CFPB], the centerpiece of the new Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul law. Ms. Warren was the first to call for the creation of such an agency in 2007. The CFPB budget could be as large as $500 million. Warren’s role as senior advisor is currently loosely defined, allowing President Obama’s appointment to avoid confirmation by the Senate. “If a Democratic President can’t even attempt confirmation with a 59 seat Democratic majority in the Senate, Ms. Warren is clearly not only unpalatable to conservatives, but to a large number of liberals as well. How convenient that the President’s announcement comes on a Friday afternoon, as soon as the Senate, who is supposed to ‘advise and consent,’ has left town,” said Congressman McHenry. “Ms. Warren just adds to the list of this White House’s unchecked fleet of czars. Her increased proximity to this President and loosely defined role will only make the creation of this new bureaucracy harder to track and further shielded from proper Congressional oversight. This is a continuation of a troubling pattern of avoiding disclosure and Senate confirmation.” ###
09.14.2010	This week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) welcomed representatives from the Tenth District Chambers of Commerce to Washington, D.C. for a series of meetings with White House officials, members of Congress, and economic development experts. share: f t This week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) welcomed representatives from the Tenth District Chambers of Commerce to Washington, D.C. for a series of meetings with White House officials, members of Congress, and economic development experts. Representatives from all ten Tenth District Chambers of Commerce were invited to the fourteenth annual North Carolina Business & Economic Development Summit, which provides community business leaders the opportunity to meet with federal government officials and discuss the policies affecting Western North Carolina businesses and communities. “Given the economic challenges and uncertainty we’re facing, it is critical our small businesses have a coordinated strategy in place to drive economic growth and create good-paying jobs,” said Congressman McHenry. “By bringing together local business leaders to discuss these issues with national leaders and economic development experts, we are putting our small businesses in the best position to grow Western North Carolina’s economy.” Last month, Congressman McHenry was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Spirit of Enterprise Award, a prestigious award honoring lawmakers who are dedicated to economic growth and job creation. ###
08.18.2010	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced that his Caldwell County town hall meeting will be broadcast live online via Ustream.tv. The meeting will occur Thursday, August 19 at 6:00 PM at the Broyhill Civic Center in Lenoir. Congressman McHenry is among the first Members of Congress to live-stream a town hall meeting. share: f t LENOIR - Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced that his Caldwell County town hall meeting will be broadcast live online via Ustream.tv. The meeting will occur Thursday, August 19 at 6:00 PM at the Broyhill Civic Center in Lenoir. Congressman McHenry is among the first Members of Congress to live-stream a town hall meeting. Internet viewers will be able to watch Congressman McHenry respond to constituents' comments and questions, as well as participate in a live discussion via Twitter and Facebook on the Ustream broadcast website. "In addition to meeting directly with folks, I've incorporated new technology to communicate with my constituents, including using Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube," said McHenry. "I'm excited to use technology to expand the universe of people who can participate in town hall meetings. I look forward to hearing from more constituents who aren't able to be there in person." Thursday's town hall meeting in Lenoir will be the seventh of eight town halls McHenry has hosted throughout the Tenth District this August. Please visit McHenry's blog for a link to the webcast and more information. A recording of the webcast will be posted to McHenry's website following the town hall meeting. ###
05.05.2010	Congressman McHenry opposed a bill today that will, if implemented, place an additional burden on Western North Carolina’s textile industry. The bill, HR 5160, was primarily designed to help Haiti recover after its recent devastating earthquake. However, portions of the overall bill would allow goods made primarily from components produced in other Third World countries into the U.S. duty-free share: f t Congressman McHenry opposed a bill today that will, if implemented, place an additional burden on Western North Carolina’s textile industry. The bill, HR 5160, was primarily designed to help Haiti recover after its recent devastating earthquake. However, portions of the overall bill would allow goods made primarily from components produced in other Third World countries into the U.S. duty-free. Currently most of the apparel produced in Haiti is made from yarn from American textile companies. This bill would change that, and allow Third World countries to ship almost-finished products to Haiti, which would in turn be transshipped to the U.S. duty-free. Rep. McHenry released the following statement on the legislation: “In a time when our people need jobs, this bill is giving them away. In a time when we should help small business, this is hurting them. “Haiti’s earthquake was a true tragedy but this bill is not just about Haiti. This legislation will let China ship textiles to Haiti, do minimal work there, and then turn around and ship them to the U.S. duty-free. It doesn’t help Haiti recover and it kills more Western North Carolina jobs. “Bad trade deals like this one have placed a huge burden on North Carolina textile workers. Now is not the time to make their lives harder.” ###
04.27.2010	DEMOCRATS HAVE INCREASED SPENDING BY 43% SINCE TAKING OVER CONGRESS AND PRESIDENT OBAMA JUST CREATED A TRILLION DOLLAR NEW ENTITLEMENT share: f t As President Obama convenes the first meeting of his new commission on the deficit, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) called on commission members to oppose higher taxes. McHenry is a member of the budget committee and the author of the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act. “The Commission’s first act should be to take tax increases off the table,” said Congressman McHenry. “If they took that step we would be off to a promising start. Washington does not have a $1.5 trillion dollar deficit because taxes are too low.” “The debt is spiraling out of control because Washington simply cannot stop spending,” McHenry continued. “President Obama just created a new trillion dollar entitlement and Democrats have increased spending by 43% since taking over Congress. Washington’s free spending ways are bankrupting our country. What we need is a decisive step toward true structural reform.” In 2006 the total federal budget was $2.65 trillion; under President Obama’s plan it will be $3.8 trillion in 2011. According to the Congressional Budget Office his new health care plan will cost $1.1 trillion dollars. Of the 18 commission members only the six Republican appointees have pledged not to support a tax increase. One member, labor union boss Andy Stern, has publicly opposed the idea of a commission and supported simply increasing taxes instead. Congressman McHenry’s CORE Spending Act focuses on finding ways to reform entitlement spending and establish long-term fiscal restraint, but does not allow for the creation of new taxes or the increase of current tax rates. Specifically, the bill will do the following: Establish a 15 member commission to examine entitlement benefit programs. Hold at least one town hall style public hearing in each Federal Reserve District. Offer a detailed report to Congress and the President no later than 180 days after enactment. Submit a legislative proposal to address areas of concern in a BRAC-style, up or down vote. As part of the 1990 tax-increases for spending-cuts deficit deal struck at Andrews Air Force Base, Congress agreed to cut spending by $2 under the CBO baseline for every $1 in tax increases. Not only were the cuts never made, but spending actually rose above the pre-deal CBO baseline. ###
04.27.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) voted against an automatic pay increase for Congress today. H.R. 5146, the Stop the Automatic Pay Raise for Members of Congress in Fiscal Year 2011 Act, will eliminate the cost of living adjustment Congress was scheduled to receive in January 2011. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) voted against an automatic pay increase for Congress today. H.R. 5146, the Stop the Automatic Pay Raise for Members of Congress in Fiscal Year 2011 Act, will eliminate the cost of living adjustment Congress was scheduled to receive in January 2011. The measure passed the House by a vote of 402 to 15 on the same day it was introduced. Rep. McHenry was a cosponsor of the bill. McHenry also voted to eliminate the automatic pay increase in 2010; that legislation passed the House on February 25th, 2009. “Congress should not get a pay increase while North Carolina is stuck in a painful recession,” said Rep. McHenry. “Washington has not helped businesses create jobs. They made the problem even worse by passing a job-killing government takeover of health care.”
03.29.2010	Most Americans have had weeks to return their census forms and new data is showing that Republicans may be responding at significantly lower rates. A recent article in the Houston Chronicle points out that conservative Texas is way behind the national average in returning Census forms and some of the lowest rates are in Texas’ most conservative counties. share: f t Most Americans have had weeks to return their census forms and new data is showing that Republicans may be responding at significantly lower rates. A recent article in the Houston Chronicle points out that conservative Texas is way behind the national average in returning Census forms and some of the lowest rates are in Texas’ most conservative counties. So far 34 percent of the country has sent in their census forms, but citizens of ‘Deep Red” counties like Lubbock’s King County (5 percent), the Panhandle’s Briscoe County (8 percent) and El Paso’s Culberson County (11 percent) are participating at much lower rates. Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), the Ranking Republican on Information Policy, Census and National Archives Subcommittee and the Chairman of the House Conservatives Fund, expressed alarm at the news: “Few things will make Nancy Pelosi happier than a low Republican census turnout. Conservatives need to know how important it is to fill out the census. It is one of the only things our Constitution specifically asks of U.S. citizens and boycotting will just help liberals expand government even further. “This census is also the shortest and least intrusive count in modern history. We kicked ACORN out of the count, defeated liberal statistical sampling schemes and fought off Obama Administration’s attempts to run the census directly. It would be a tragedy if we handed Democrats a victory at the last minute. “This is still just the beginning of the process. We have about two months for Republicans to increase their participation rates.” An undercount of Republican leaning voters will hand the Democrats more seats in Congress; both by awarding fewer seats to conservative states like Texas and by warping redistricting within states to Democrats’ advantage. The story has sent commenters on the liberal website Huffingtonpost.com into a massive fit of gloating. ###
03.25.2010	All five Republican members of the North Carolina congressional delegation sent a letter to Attorney General Roy Cooper today, calling on him to join the 14 states currently challenging the constitutionality of President Obama’s new health care legislation. share: f t All five Republican members of the North Carolina congressional delegation sent a letter to Attorney General Roy Cooper today, calling on him to join the 14 states currently challenging the constitutionality of President Obama’s new health care legislation. The full text of the letter is below. March 24, 2010 The Honorable Roy Cooper North Carolina Attorney General 9001 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-9001 Dear Attorney General Cooper: In the wake of President Obama’s new health care law, we strongly urge you to join other Attorneys General from around the country in challenging its constitutionality. The Constitution gives the Federal Government the authority to regulate interstate commerce, but this legislation goes far beyond that power. An individual is not engaged in interstate commerce if he decides not to purchase insurance, and compelling him to make such a purchase is beyond the bounds of the interstate commerce clause. Florida, Texas, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, North Dakota, South Dakota, Alabama, Nebraska, Utah, Oklahoma, Virginia, Missouri, Idaho, and Washington are all challenging the constitutionality of this unprecedented new mandate on the American people. The state of North Carolina should be a part of that effort. This new law will kill jobs. It hurts small businesses, hurts families and will drive up the cost of health care in this country. It is an imposition on North Carolinians’ freedom and will do real harm to the people of our state. We urge you to stand up for the people of North Carolina and challenge this new law in court. Thank you in advance for your consideration. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry, M.C. Howard Coble, M.C. Tenth District of North Carolina Sixth District of North Carolina Walter Jones, M.C. Sue Myrick, M.C. Third District of North Carolina Ninth District of North Carolina Virginia Foxx, M.C. Fifth District of North Carolina ###
03.23.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s signing of his so-called health care “reform” bill today: share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s signing of his so-called health care “reform” bill today: “Thousands of people across Western North Carolina have already stood up against President Obama’s massive government takeover. Today’s action is not the end. We can still repeal this unconstitutional plan and we can still defeat it in court. “Obamacare will mean higher taxes, higher spending and fewer jobs. Western North Carolina is hurting and the President has just prolonged the pain of this recession. “Americans do not want a plan that raises their premiums, hits them with 19 new tax increases and forces them pay for abortions. Our best shot at getting rid of Obamacare is ‘replace and repeal.’ We’ve got to replace these folks that voted for this horrible bill and then we’ll have the votes we need to repeal Obamacare." ###
03.21.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against President Obama’s so-called health care “reform” bill: share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against President Obama’s so-called health care “reform” bill: “Today’s vote means the President will sign federal funding of abortions, the Cornhusker Kickback, the Louisiana Purchase, 19 tax increases and $500 billion in Medicare cuts into law. His so-called health care ‘reform’ plan raises premiums, ignores lawsuit abuse and adds billions to the federal deficit. “This is an anti-jobs bill. Instead of helping businesses create jobs it will increase federal spending, raise taxes and slow economic growth. “The fight goes on. This summer more than 5,000 people stood up against Obamacare at the 11 town halls I held across Western North Carolina. The battle against government-run health care is one of the most important I have ever fought and I am not about to give up now. I will work with like-minded Americans across our nation to repeal or challenge this unconstitutional government takeover.” ###
03.15.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement on the Budget Committee’s reconciliation vote tonight. The vote marks the beginning of the Democrats final push to pass their so called “health care reform” bill. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement on the Budget Committee’s reconciliation vote tonight. The vote marks the beginning of the Democrats final push to pass their so called “health care reform” bill. McHenry is scheduled to offer the Republicans’ ninth Motion to Instruct (MTI) tonight. Budget Committee Republicans will be offering a total of 10 MTI’s, each one highlighting a portion of the party’s position on health care. Congressman McHenry will be responsible for articulating the party’s position on lowering health care premiums. Under the Democrats’ current bill, premiums would increase 10-13 percent on most families. Congressman McHenry’s Statement: "The final phase of the so called health care 'reform' fight starts tonight in the Budget Committee and I am happy to be one of the first members of Congress given a chance to vote no. My hope is that we are able to defeat this bill this week. "Real reform would reduce the cost of health care, but the Democrat’s bill will force Americans to pay 10-13 percent more for their health insurance. This proposal is not about making health care more affordable, it is about forcing government-rationed health care on the United States. "If this plan passes, every American will be forced to buy what Democrats call an 'essential benefits package' and pay for services they may not want. For the millions of families who buy their own health care, that will mean an extra $2,100 in premiums every year. That is a major hardship, but according to Democrats the government knows best. Democrats think a massive government takeover will ‘fix’ health care, but their plan will just force Americans to pay higher premiums and higher taxes for less health care.” ###
03.04.2010	Today, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) has honored the Congressman with its 2009 Taxpayers’ Friend Award for his support for reducing spending and opposing higher taxes. McHenry has earned this award every year he has served in Congress. share: f t Today, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) has honored the Congressman with its 2009 Taxpayers’ Friend Award for his support for reducing spending and opposing higher taxes. McHenry has earned this award every year he has served in Congress. "Despite a few encouraging trends, the results from NTU's Rating vividly demonstrate why 2009 was such a fiscal disaster," said NTU President Duane Parde. "For every Member of Congress doing his or her best to relieve overburdened taxpayers, five other lawmakers were doing their worst." “Now more than ever, Americans need Washington to lessen the burden of taxes and promote investment and growth. It is foolish to think that we can simply tax, spend and borrow our way back to prosperity. Real growth will come from small businesses investing and creating jobs, which will continue rebuilding the economy of Western North Carolina,” stated Congressman McHenry. Every year, the National Taxpayers Union rates U.S. Representatives and Senators on every vote that affects taxes, spending, and debt. Each vote is weighted based on its effect on federal spending. In 2009, Congressman McHenry earned an “A” grade, making him one of 55 lawmakers in the House and Senate eligible for the award.
03.02.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced new legislation today, H.R. 4705, that would redesign the face of the $50 bill to include the likeness of our 40th President, Ronald Reagan. Indisputably one of transformative leaders of the 20th century, Reagan would have turned 99 years old this February. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced new legislation today, H.R. 4705, that would redesign the face of the $50 bill to include the likeness of our 40th President, Ronald Reagan. Indisputably one of transformative leaders of the 20th century, Reagan would have turned 99 years old this February. “Every generation needs its own heroes,” said Congressman McHenry. “One decade into the 21st century, it’s time to honor the last great president of the 20th and give President Reagan a place beside Presidents Roosevelt and Kennedy.” President Franklin Roosevelt’s likeness is on the dime and President John F. Kennedy is on the half-dollar. “President Reagan was a modern day statesman, whose presidency transformed our nation’s political and economic thinking,” McHenry continued. “Through both his domestic and international policies he renewed America’s self confidence, defeated the Soviets and taught us that each generation must provide opportunity for the next.” President Reagan would be replacing President Ulysses S. Grant on the bill. In polls of presidential scholars, President Reagan consistently outranks President Grant. In 2005, The Wall Street Journal conducted one such poll of bipartisan scholars which ranked President Reagan 6th and President Grant 29th. ###
02.23.2010	In the process of pushing his so-called health care reform bill, President Obama is proposing another $950 billion dollars in new spending. The proposal would blow a huge hole in the deficit and shows just how lightly he takes his own newly proposed debt commission. share: f t In the process of pushing his so-called health care reform bill, President Obama is proposing another $950 billion dollars in new spending. The proposal would blow a huge hole in the deficit and shows just how lightly he takes his own newly proposed debt commission. Congressman McHenry is a member of the budget committee and author of the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act. Congressman McHenry's statement: "This proposal proves that the Administration isn't focused on jobs, isn't focused on the economy, and certainly isn't focused on the $1.6 trillion deficit all Americans face. "This bill will hike federal spending, hike deficits and slow economic growth, plain and simple. No president worried about American jobs and massive debt would propose something like this right now. Higher debt will inevitably lead to higher interest rates, fewer jobs and eventually, massive tax increases.” ###
02.17.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the $862 billion stimulus bill being signed into law. Congressman McHenry voted against the stimulus bill and a recent New York Times / CBS poll found that just 6% of Americans believe the measure created jobs. In January, the Congressional Budget Office increased its estimate of the stimulus bill’s total cost by $75 billion dollars. Congressman McHenry’s Statement: “After one year, it is clear that the Administration’s so-called stimulus bill has failed. We are still in the depths of a massive recession and we have got to do whatever we can to help businesses create new jobs. “It is time for a new approach. Balancing the budget, moving towards energy independence, fighting bad trade deals and strengthening worker retraining programs will all help Western North Carolina small businesses create jobs. I hope both Republicans and Democrats will get together and support these common sense ideas. “I voted against the so-called stimulus bill because it spent too much on special interest projects and didn’t do nearly enough to help our economy. Less than 4% of the bill went to road and bridge projects and under 3% was devoted to job-creating tax relief for small businesses. Even worse, half of the stimulus money is scheduled to be spent between 2011 and 2019, well after the recession should be over. “Not only did the stimulus bill not create jobs, it added $9,900 in debt for every family in America. Higher debt will mean higher taxes, less economic growth and fewer jobs.” ###
02.17.2010	In anticipation of tomorrow’s expected executive order creating a new debt commission, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), a member of the budget committee and sponsor of the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act, called on President Obama’s to reject the idea of tax increases and embrace a truly bipartisan approach. share: f t In anticipation of tomorrow’s expected executive order creating a new debt commission, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC), a member of the budget committee and sponsor of the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act, called on President Obama’s to reject the idea of tax increases and embrace a truly bipartisan approach. “Why not take tax increases off the table?” McHenry asked. “Republicans want a truly bipartisan plan to get Washington’s unsustainable deficit and entitlement spending under control, but we can not raise taxes in the middle of a recession. President Obama knows that tax increases will never get Republican support and we will not be able to take a decisive step toward true structural reform without both parties.” Congressman McHenry’s CORE Spending Act focuses on finding ways to reform entitlement spending and establish long-term fiscal restraint, but does not allow for the creation of new taxes or the increase of current tax rates. Specifically, the bill will do the following: Establish a 15 member commission to examine entitlement benefit programs. Hold at least one town hall style public hearing in each Federal Reserve District. Offer a detailed report to Congress and the President no later than 180 days after enactment. Submit a legislative proposal to address areas of concern in a BRAC-style, up or down vote. As part of the 1990 tax-increases for spending-cuts deficit deal struck at Andrews Air Force Base, Congress agreed to cut spending by $2 under the CBO baseline for every $1 in tax increases. Not only were the cuts never made, but spending actually rose above the pre-deal CBO baseline. ###
02.04.2010	Congress voted today to raise the national debt limit to $14.3 trillion, or $121,982 for every household in America. The vote is the third debt increase Congress has passed in the last twelve months. Since the Democrats took control of Congress in 2007, they have raised the debt limit by $5.33 trillion. President Obama recently proposed a budget that would add $1.6 trillion to the national debt next year alone. share: f t Congress voted today to raise the national debt limit to $14.3 trillion, or $121,982 for every household in America. The vote is the third debt increase Congress has passed in the last twelve months. Since the Democrats took control of Congress in 2007, they have raised the debt limit by $5.33 trillion. President Obama recently proposed a budget that would add $1.6 trillion to the national debt next year alone. The measure passed with 217 yes votes and 212 no votes. Congressman McHenry voted no. Congressman Patrick McHenry released the following statement on the vote: “America’s national debt is crippling our economy and hurting folks in Western North Carolina. Higher debt means higher interest rates, fewer jobs and eventually, more tax increases. This is unacceptable. “Under President Obama’s new budget this won’t be the last time we’re forced to borrow money. If he has his way we’ll add more than $130,000 in debt for every American household over the next twelve years. If we don’t change course China alone will hold roughly $1 trillion of U.S. debt within a decade. “Just like the subprime bubble, the Obama bubble is eventually going to burst. When it does, taxpayers won't be bailing out Wall Street; they'll be bailing out the United States Government."
02.03.2010	Last night, the House of Representatives voted to pass H. Res. 957, Honoring Jimmie Johnson, 2009 NASCAR Sprint Cup Champion. Introduced by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), this resolution commemorates Jimmie Johnson becoming the first driver in NASCAR history to win the Championship in four consecutive seasons, surpassing the previous record of three straight by Cale Yarborough. share: f t Last night, the House of Representatives voted to pass H. Res. 957, Honoring Jimmie Johnson, 2009 NASCAR Sprint Cup Champion. Introduced by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), this resolution commemorates Jimmie Johnson becoming the first driver in NASCAR history to win the Championship in four consecutive seasons, surpassing the previous record of three straight by Cale Yarborough. Click here to watch Congressman McHenry's floor speech on the resolution. Jimmie Johnson, backed by the #48 Lowe’s Chevrolet team, including Crew Chief Chad Knaus and co-owners Rick Hendrick and Jeff Gordon, was named male athlete of 2009 by the Associated Press, 2009 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series driver of the year, and was considered for the 2000’s “Driver of the Decade.” “Jimmie Johnson’s historic season and rise to the pinnacle of his profession is the embodiment of the American dream,” said Congressman McHenry. “He represents what’s best about professional sports, and his contributions to NASCAR and the community through his foundation are truly remarkable. Jimmie’s run made for an exciting season to say the least, and I’m looking forward to Daytona and watching his ‘Drive for Five’ in 2010.”
01.27.2010	Tonight, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address. share: f t Tonight, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address. "America can’t afford another year like 2009, but that’s what the President just promised us. "After spending $9,900 per citizen on a 'stimulus' bill that didn't work, pushing a health care bill that no one wants and still managing to triple the deficit, President Obama should be changing course. "Instead, he promised us a second stimulus bill, the same health care bill that the American people have already rejected and a cap-and-tax energy bill that would kill millions more jobs. "The President's proposed discretionary spending freeze is a worthy concept, but the rhetoric doesn't match the reality. His speech laid out a number of policy goals, including various new spending programs, which make the 'spending freeze' nothing more than a marketing slogan. "Tonight's speech was a missed opportunity. The President had a chance to show some humility, listen to the American people and change course. Instead of seizing that chance, he offered us the same misguided policies wrapped in new rhetoric." ###
01.19.2010	Four members of the North Carolina House delegation sent a letter today urging Speaker Nancy Pelosi not to burden North Carolinians with over a billion dollars in new Medicaid costs and to make sure the state is treated equally in the final version of the bill. share: f t Four members of the North Carolina House delegation sent a letter today urging Speaker Nancy Pelosi not to burden North Carolinians with over a billion dollars in new Medicaid costs and to make sure the state is treated equally in the final version of the bill. Both the House and Senate versions of the bill would mandate that states raise their Medicaid enrollments and pay for much of the cost themselves. According to an estimate by the National Conference of State Legislators the Democrats’ proposal would cost North Carolina at least $1.216 billion dollars over five years. Governor Perdue has told reporters that even though she supports the overall bill, she would oppose it if North Carolina is forced pay for an unfunded Medicaid mandate. The full text of the delegation’s letter is below along with quotes from individual delegation members and Governor Perdue: Congressman Patrick McHenry: “North Carolinians can’t afford a huge new Washington spending plan and we definitely can’t afford the insider deals Democrats handed out to a few well-connected Senators. We need to focus on reviving our economy, not crushing it with an expensive new mandate.” Congresswoman Sue Myrick: “Increasing the Medicaid burden on our state is only going to increase taxes for our citizens at a time when people are already struggling to make ends meet. Instead, let’s work on creating a solution to healthcare costs that doesn’t burden already strained public programs at the expense of our citizens Congressman Howard Coble: “So, North Carolina, already facing a massive budget shortfall, is expected to shoulder a greater share of Medicaid costs, while sweetheart deals are handed out to states such as Nebraska and Louisiana. This is patently unfair and probably unconstitutional. I urge the Speaker to kill this backroom deal and restore fairness to the process.” Congressman Walter Jones: “Taxpayers have had enough of this Administration’s broken promises for transparency in the crafting of this health care reform bill. Backroom deals like the one that produced this massive new unfunded mandate for Medicaid expansion are the last thing taxpayers need during these difficult economic times.” Governor Bev Perdue: “We are all hungry for a solution,” she said, “but the absolute dealbreaker for me as governor is a federal plan that shifts costs to the states.” (1/4/2010, link) “North Carolina, as many other states, really (doesn’t) have the money for unfunded mandates,” Perdue said. “It’s going to be very hard for us to pick up (an estimated 350,000 to 500,000) new Medicaid patients unless we have some more help from the federal government.” (12/28/2009, link) Letter Dear Speaker Pelosi, As the final health care reform bill is being negotiated between the two chambers, we wanted to express our concern as to how some of the proposed changes will affect the state of North Carolina. Both the House and Senate versions mandate that the states raise their Medicaid enrollment and pay for a portion of that cost. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this proposed Medicaid expansion will cost states $26 billion over the first ten years. Just last month, Lanier Cansler, Secretary of the NC Department of Health and Human Services, announced that current Medicaid spending is expected to exceed the state budget projections by $150 million to $300 million. It is apparent that the estimated costs of this additional expansion of Medicaid would further drain our state coffers, forcing our legislature to make even greater reductions in current services. North Carolina is not alone in facing the burden of this unfunded mandate. The National Conference of State Legislatures made this same argument in a letter to Congressional leaders in October asking for 100% funding by the federal government for any Medicaid expansion, stating, “A lesser commitment from the federal government would shift billions of costs to states and would have serious short- and long-term consequences for state budgets.” Unfortunately, in the Senate bill only Nebraska will have the federal government pick up 100% of the cost of the Medicaid expansion. Vermont will receive an additional $250 million over six years, and Louisiana will reportedly receive an additional $300 million. The state of North Carolina can not endure the weight of a massive new spending requirement. We request that any final healthcare bill not result in unfunded mandates on our state and we further request that all states be treated equitably. Thank you in advance for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Congressman Patrick McHenry Congresswoman Sue Myrick Congressman Howard Coble Congressman Walter Jones ###
01.19.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry released the following statement on the results of tonight’s Massachusetts special election: share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on the results of tonight’s Massachusetts special election: “If you’d told me a month ago that a Republican running against President Obama’s health care plan would win Ted Kennedy’s former Senate seat, I’d have said you were crazy. “If the Obama health care bill has sparked such a massive backlash in Massachusetts, I can’t imagine what Democrats in red and purple districts are hearing back home. Democrats should take the hint and stop pushing their unpopular plan on the American people.” ###
01.08.2010	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns’ (D-NY) decision to hold hearings on the growing American International Group (AIG) disclosure controversy. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement on House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns’ (D-NY) decision to hold hearings on the growing American International Group (AIG) disclosure controversy (link). McHenry earlier joined Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) in calling on Chairman Towns to hold a hearing and bring Secretary Geithner before the committee to testify. (link, link) "We owe it to taxpayers and investors to find out why Secretary Geithner pressured AIG to withhold important disclosures from the public, and what precisely he was trying to hide. When billions of dollars are funneled to foreign banks right out of taxpayers’ pockets, both Republicans and Democrats have a fiduciary duty to get to the bottom of it. I hope Secretary Geithner will choose to testify at the hearing voluntarily, but if he declines he must be subpoenaed and compelled to tell the American people the full story." ###
12.14.2009	Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry introduced the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act, H.R. 4249. This legislation establishes a commission to examine entitlement program reform and report to Congress with a comprehensive solution that does not include any new taxes or tax increases. share: f t Last week, Congressman Patrick McHenry introduced the Commission On Reforming Entitlement (CORE) Spending Act, H.R. 4249. This legislation establishes a commission to examine entitlement program reform and report to Congress with a comprehensive solution that does not include any new taxes or tax increases. “We must address unsustainable deficit and entitlement spending, but not at the expense of economic growth,” said Congressman McHenry. “Raising taxes is not the answer. This bill takes a decisive step toward true structural reform to ensure that future generations are not saddled with crippling levels of debt. Thus far, Congress has shown itself incapable of making these hard choices; it’s become clear that an outside commission is necessary.” Spending on the three major entitlements, Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, will more than double in the next 40 years. Without major reforms, entitlement spending will consume all federal tax revenues by 2052. This growth cannot be sustained without significant expense to the American taxpayer. The CORE Spending Act focuses on finding ways to reform entitlement spending and establish long-term fiscal restraint, but does not allow for the creation of new taxes or the increase of current tax rates. Specifically, the bill will do the following: Establish a 15 member commission to examine entitlement benefit programs. Hold at least one town hall style public hearing in each Federal Reserve District. Offer a detailed report to Congress and the President no later than 180 days after enactment. Submit a legislative proposal to address areas of concern in a BRAC-style, up or down vote. With the enactment of this legislation, Congress would take the steps needed to balance the federal budget while ensuring the solvency of established entitlement programs. ###
11.20.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) called on North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan to oppose Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s government-run healthcare plan. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) called on North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan to oppose Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s government-run healthcare plan. “The latest healthcare bill offered by Senator Reid is just another attempt by Washington Democrats to put a new name on the same government takeover plan we’ve seen twice before. In the House, 39 Democrats joined the American people in rejecting the government-knows-best approach to healthcare reform. Now, I urge my colleague, Senator Hagan, to join in opposition to the Reid bill, which will raise taxes by nearly half a trillion dollars, cut Medicare by another half a trillion dollars, and impose $28 billion in new taxes on employers that do not provide government-approved coverage. “Unfortunately, this legislation fails to address the many common-sense healthcare reforms that are strongly supported by the American people and centrist Democrats. This plan still fails to reform lawsuit abuse, insurance companies are not forced to compete across state lines, and small businesses are prevented from pooling their resources to purchase affordable coverage for their employees. On top of that, the Reid bill permits the use of accounting gimmicks that will allow federal dollars to go to plans covering abortion. “As our country continues to suffer from double digit unemployment, Democrats still see it fit to burden employers with new taxes that will ultimately be paid by American workers in the form of reduced wages and jobs. This plan’s price tag also means fewer benefits for seniors and more mandates that will drive up health insurance premiums.” ###
11.19.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for H.R. 3791, which reauthorizes a total of approximately $9.8 billion over five years to fund both the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. share: f t Last evening, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for H.R. 3791, which reauthorizes a total of approximately $9.8 billion over five years to fund both the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. The legislation expands program eligibility, increases minimum funding for fire prevention and safety programs, and changes state and federal matching requirements. “Fire departments across the Tenth District can attest to the success of these critical programs. Firefighters dedicate their lives to serving people and saving lives - we owe it to them to make sure they have the tools they need to do their job - and stay safe doing it,” said Congressman McHenry. AFG grants provide local fire departments with necessary funding to protect the health and safety of their firefighting personnel, conduct state fire training academies, implement fire prevention safety and research programs, and support EMS or rescue organizations. SAFER grants help departments increase their staffing and deployment capabilities in order to better respond to emergency situations. Local fire departments apply for grants, and the programs are administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. During the 2008 fiscal cycle, $1,743,884 was awarded in twenty-six grants to twenty-four departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties received a grant. Additionally, H.R. 3791 includes an amendment to prohibit the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) from receiving any funding from the bill. ###
11.10.2009	“Capable and dedicated workers are essential to a successful count. Our communities have so much at stake in the 2010 Census. Full participation is the only way we can get our fair share of federal funding for the next decade,” said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that the U.S. Census Bureau is accepting applications for temporary employment. In preparation for the 2010 Decennial Census, the Bureau will be hiring as many as one million people across the country. Primary recruiting for census workers will take place throughout the fall and winter of 2009 with the bulk of hiring to occur in the spring of 2010. “Capable and dedicated workers are essential to a successful count. Our communities have so much at stake in the 2010 Census. Full participation is the only way we can get our fair share of federal funding for the next decade,” said Congressman McHenry. Available positions include census takers who conduct personal interviews with respondents in their communities, crew leaders who train and supervise census takers, crew leader assistants, census clerks who perform administrative duties in local census offices, and recruiting assistants who help spread the word in their communities about employment opportunities. For most positions, hours vary and do not exceed 40 hours per week. However, working evenings and weekends may be required. Employment with the Bureau usually lasts five to 10 weeks. For more information and to apply for a position, please call 1-866-861-2010. Additional information can also be found at http://2010censusjobs.gov. ###
11.10.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry presented local veterans with military service medals and decorations during a ceremony this afternoon at his Hickory office. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry presented local veterans with military service medals and decorations during a ceremony this afternoon at his Hickory office. “I am humbled to help honor these distinguished veterans for their valiant service in our Armed Forces. It is only fitting that their heroism should be recognized this week when we stop to pay tribute to the sacrifices made by all of our country’s veterans,” said Congressman McHenry. Veterans were presented with medals, awards, and certificates. Some of these were replacements for honors lost, while others were never received. The following veterans were recognized this afternoon: Bernard Easler of Lawndale • Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal • Sharpshooter Badge With Rifle Bar Carl O. Smith of Lenoir • Good Conduct Medal • American Campaign Medal • European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal With 4 Bronze Stars • World War II Victory Medal • Honorable Service Lapel Button, WW II Harvey Jonas of Newton • World War II Victory Medal • American Campaign Medal • Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal • Discharge Button • Honorable Service Lapel Pin (Ruptured Duck) Walker Dewey Caughman of Stanley • Bronze Star Medal • European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal With 2 Bronze Stars • World War II Victory Medal • Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award • Honorable Service Lapel Button, WW II Benny McKinzie of Stanley • Bronze Star Medal • Purple Heart • Presidential Unit Citation • American Campaign Medal • European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal With 1 Silver Service Star • Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award • Honorable Service Lapel Button, WW II Benny Holler of Barium Springs • World War II Victory Medal • American Campaign Medal • Asiatic-Pacific-Campaign Medal With 3 Bronze Stars • Combat Action Ribbon • Discharge Button • Honorable Service Lapel Pin (Ruptured Duck) • Philippine Award Handout Walter Little of Claremont • Good Conduct Medal • National Defense Service Medal Congressman McHenry has also worked on behalf of the following local veterans to obtain service medals: Danny Dean Alexander of Valdese, Ronnie Adams of Cherryville, Blane Lee Allred of Lenoir, Lee Roy Willis of Cherryville, and Lonnie Fish, Jr. of Maiden. Congressman McHenry assists in obtaining service medals for veterans either through a request on their behalf to the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) or through a Congressional Inquiry to the proper Branch of Service. Veterans who have never received their medals or whose medals were destroyed or lost may contact the Hickory Office at 828-327-6100 for assistance. Medals are issued from the NPRC or the Branch of Service to the Congressman’s Hickory office. ###
11.07.2009	“It is easy to understand why so many centrist Democrats voted against this radical plan. Hundreds of millions of Americans will be forced out of their current healthcare plan, Medicare cuts will mean fewer benefits for seniors, bureaucrats will have the authority to restrict healthcare services, taxpayers will fund benefits for illegal immigrants, federal and state taxes will increase, and the cost of healthcare premiums will rise. The remedy is worse than the disease. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his votes against H.R. 3962 and in favor of a substitute amendment to the legislation. “My constituents and the American people have sent a resounding message to Washington: reform healthcare, don’t take it over. Unfortunately, the leadership of House Democrats either was not listening or simply did not care. “There are many common-sense healthcare reforms that are strongly supported by the American people and healthcare professionals. Unfortunately, this legislation fails to reform lawsuit abuse, insurance companies are not forced to compete across state lines, and small businesses are prevented from pooling their resources to purchase affordable coverage for their employees. The Republican healthcare plan does all of these things. According to the Democrat-led Congressional Budget Office, the Republican plan reduces premiums, reduces the deficit, and expands the number of insured Americans. That’s the bill I voted for. “It is easy to understand why so many centrist Democrats voted against this radical plan. Hundreds of millions of Americans will be forced out of their current healthcare plan, Medicare cuts will mean fewer benefits for seniors, bureaucrats will have the authority to restrict healthcare services, taxpayers will fund benefits for illegal immigrants, federal and state taxes will increase, and the cost of healthcare premiums will rise. The remedy is worse than the disease. “Furthermore, it’s as though the Democrats are unaware that this country is suffering from double digit unemployment. According to President Obama’s chief economic advisor, the small business tax increases in their bill will kill an additional 5.5 million jobs. “I maintain that we can insure the uninsured, which the Democrats’ bill actually fails to do, without degrading the quality and increasing the cost of healthcare for everyone else.” ###
11.06.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry sent a letter to the North Carolina Division of Medical Assistance concerning H.R. 3962, the healthcare legislation pending before Congress. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry sent a letter to the North Carolina Division of Medical Assistance concerning H.R. 3962, the healthcare legislation pending before Congress. The legislation imposes unfunded mandates on states to pay for an expansion of Medicaid. “As the vote on this legislation nears, it is important to understand the impact it will have on North Carolina. Our state is facing a revenue and budget crisis that could well be exacerbated by unfunded mandates from the federal government,” stated Congressman McHenry. Governor Perdue and the Democratic General Assembly recently enacted a series of tax increases on North Carolinians. The letter reads as follows: Dr. Craigan L. Gray, MD, MBA, JD Director North Carolina Division of Medical Assistance 1985 Umstead Dr. Raleigh, NC 27603-2001 Dear Dr. Gray, As H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, is debated on the House floor this week, I wanted to reach out to your agency as a valuable resource for how some of the proposed changes will affect the state of North Carolina. H.R. 3962 mandates that all states raise Medicaid enrollment to 150% of the federal poverty level. H.R. 3962 also raises the Federal Medical Assistance Percentages (FMP) to 91% of this expansion cost by 2019. According to estimates by the National Conference of State Legislatures, raising enrollment eligibility to 133% of the federal poverty level and capping FMAP at 95% would create a cost of $1.216 billion to the North Carolina state budget in 2014-2019. It is apparent then that the additional expansion of eligibility to 150% of the poverty line, coupled with the lower compensation rate will create an even greater burden on our state coffers. For this reason, I would like to ask you for an estimate of the projected obligations that passage of H.R. 3962 would have on the state of North Carolina. I sincerely appreciate your timely attention to this matter. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry Member of Congress ###
11.05.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for final passage of H.R. 3548, which extends both the Homebuyer Tax Credit and Unemployment Insurance benefits. Under the current program, which was set to expire on November 30, 2009, homebuyers can claim an $8,000 tax credit when purchasing their first home. H.R. 3548 extends the tax credit until April 30, 2010 and expands eligibility to those who have owned their primary residence at least 5 years. “This tax credit is working. The housing market is beginning to turn around. Our economy cannot start growing again until people starting buying houses and home values increase,” said Congressman McHenry. The legislation also provides an additional 14 weeks of Unemployment Insurance benefits for jobless workers in all states. In states like North Carolina with unemployment rates above 8.5%, benefits will be extended an additional 6 weeks for a total of 20 weeks. “As the Obama Administration has acknowledged, the stimulus plan has failed. As a result, unemployment continues to rise and North Carolina is being hit particularly hard. We have a responsibility to help displaced workers get back on their feet,” stated Congressman McHenry. ###
10.29.2009	Meet the new plan for a government takeover of healthcare, same as the old one. The American people have already rejected the approach to healthcare reform that says government knows best. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in response to the unveiling of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s expanded healthcare legislation. “Meet the new plan for a government takeover of healthcare, same as the old one. The American people have already rejected the approach to healthcare reform that says government knows best. The results are the same regardless of how many more pages the Democrats add to this bill: hundreds of millions of Americans will be forced out of their current healthcare plan, Medicare cuts will mean fewer benefits for seniors, bureaucrats will have the authority to restrict healthcare services, taxpayers will fund abortions, federal and state taxes will increase, and the cost of healthcare will rise. “Nowhere in this 1,990-page bill are the common sense reforms that everyone agrees on. Insurance companies are not forced to compete with one another across state lines. Small businesses are not permitted to join together to purchase affordable coverage for their employees. Lawsuit abuse will continue to thrive so the real victims are denied justice and the cost of healthcare can continue to escalate. “We can insure the uninsured, which this bill actually fails to do, without degrading the quality and increasing the cost of healthcare for everyone else. It’s no wonder the Democrats preserved the loophole that ensures Members of Congress never have to enroll in the program.” ###
10.28.2009	“I greatly appreciate the support we’ve received for this important reform measure. Requiring greater disclosure and transparency is critical to reforming the failed practices of credit rating agencies,” McHenry stated. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) offered an amendment late yesterday in the House Financial Services Committee to the Accountability and Transparency in Rating Agencies Act. Congressman McHenry’s amendment placing stronger disclosure requirements on credit rating agencies was accepted with bipartisan support from his fellow Committee members. McHenry has championed his proposal as a necessary step to help prevent another financial crisis. In March, he introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act to address much-needed reform in the credit rating market. “I greatly appreciate the support we’ve received for this important reform measure. Requiring greater disclosure and transparency is critical to reforming the failed practices of credit rating agencies,” McHenry stated. As mortgage products were packaged and sold as securities during the boom in the housing market, the credit rating industry consistently gave undeservedly-high ratings to many of these securities. This was a significant contributor to the financial crisis that followed. Congressman McHenry’s proposal requires nationally-recognized credit rating agencies to provide additional disclosures with respect to the rating of structured securities. Specifically the bill will do the following: Ensure that issuers and originators are providing credit rating agencies with adequate information on the assets underlying a structured security. Require credit rating agencies to institute procedures for getting data from issuers and originators concerning the procedures employed to attest to the data’s veracity and the fraud detection capabilities surrounding the process. Require credit rating agencies to disclose in a central internet database the historical default rates of all classes of financial products they have rated. “We must give investors and analysts the information they need to make sound financial judgments," said Congressman McHenry. ###
10.14.2009	The bipartisan legislation is currently co-sponsored by 42 Democrats and 139 Republicans. However, the leadership of the Democrat-controlled House refuses to hold a vote on the legislation. “If you want to know how out-of-touch Washington really is, look no further. Congress is debating some of the most sweeping policy changes in our nation’s history but some believe the legislation should be hidden from the American people,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced his support for H.Res.554, a resolution requiring that all legislation be disclosed to the public 72 hours prior to consideration by the House of Representatives. The resolution is sponsored by Democratic Congressman Brian Baird (WA-3) and Republican Congressman Greg Walden (OR-2). The bipartisan legislation is currently co-sponsored by 42 Democrats and 139 Republicans. However, the leadership of the Democrat-controlled House refuses to hold a vote on the legislation. “If you want to know how out-of-touch Washington really is, look no further. Congress is debating some of the most sweeping policy changes in our nation’s history but some believe the legislation should be hidden from the American people,” stated Congressman McHenry. As a Senator, Barack Obama introduced similar 72-hour legislation and, as a presidential candidate, he promised to push it through Congress. Since being elected, President Obama has distanced himself from this common-sense proposal. McHenry continued, “When Democratic leadership is this desperate to undermine government transparency, it certainly raises a red flag. What kind of legislation would need to be hidden from the public? The bad kind unfortunately.” In June, House Democratic leadership infamously posted the “cap-and-trade” climate change legislation online at 3:09 a.m. on the morning of the vote. The United States Congress cast a blind vote on a bill no one had even read, a bill that is now unpopular with the American people. ###
10.14.2009	“What a great mix of NASCAR’s founding fathers and those who popularized this great American sport. Without these five men, NASCAR’s journey from humble beginnings on the beaches of Daytona to our nation’s fastest growing sport would not have been possible. I applaud the selection committee and millions of race fans for recognizing the remarkable achievements of the men who dedicated their lives to building the sport we all love.” share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) offered his congratulations and thanks to the inaugural class of the NASCAR Hall of Fame: Bill France, Sr., Bill France, Jr., Richard Petty, Dale Earnhardt, Sr., and Junior Johnson. “What a great mix of NASCAR’s founding fathers and those who popularized this great American sport. Without these five men, NASCAR’s journey from humble beginnings on the beaches of Daytona to our nation’s fastest growing sport would not have been possible. I applaud the selection committee and millions of race fans for recognizing the remarkable achievements of the men who dedicated their lives to building the sport we all love.” NOTE: The NASCAR Hall of Fame will open in Charlotte, North Carolina in May of 2010. ###
10.08.2009	“Republicans and Democrats alike stand ready to provide adequate funding for a successful census. But it now seems that the Census Bureau is incapable of determining what that cost will be. “While I appreciate Dr. Groves being forthright and understand that these problems are not of his making, corrective action must take place immediately. The 2010 Decennial, which is already funded to the tune of $14.7 billion, is just around the corner. The Census Bureau must fix its costs estimation model quickly and report back to Congress with an accurate figure. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the Census Oversight Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the troubling admission by the U.S. Census Bureau that its cost estimation models are a complete failure. The recently concluded address canvassing operation went over budget by 25%. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) also reports that failures in the fingerprint training process may have led to the hiring of as many as 200 temporary census workers with criminal backgrounds. “Republicans and Democrats alike stand ready to provide adequate funding for a successful census. But it now seems that the Census Bureau is incapable of determining what that cost will be. “While I appreciate Dr. Groves being forthright and understand that these problems are not of his making, corrective action must take place immediately. The 2010 Decennial, which is already funded to the tune of $14.7 billion, is just around the corner. The Census Bureau must fix its costs estimation model quickly and report back to Congress with an accurate figure. “The Census Bureau will soon begin hiring hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and yet its safeguards against hiring criminals are in jeopardy. GAO has identified insufficient training in fingerprint-taking as the cause of this failure. “Bureaucratic incompetence that leads to the hiring of criminals as census takers threatens the integrity of 2010 Decennial. This problem must be fixed immediately and assurances must be given to Congress and the American people that it will not happen again.” ###
10.08.2009	"With this bill, Speaker Pelosi has made her priorities crystal clear: politics first, defense second. I applaud those moderate Democrats who stood up to the radical liberals who run their party and voted against one of the most cynical pieces of legislation to come before the House in a long time.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry released the following statement regarding his vote against the hate crimes legislation included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The version of NDAA that passed the House, which Congressman McHenry voted in favor of, did not include the politically-motivated hate crimes legislation. However, Democratic leadership inserted the language just prior to today’s final vote. “This is Washington politics at its worst. Playing politics with defense authorization is downright immoral. Every American, without conditions, is protected by our nation’s laws. We do not create special categories of people and give them more or less protection under the law. The so-called hate crimes legislation is really about criminalizing thought and targeting religious organizations for prosecution. As a violation of the First Amendment, this legislation is unconstitutional. "With this bill, Speaker Pelosi has made her priorities crystal clear: politics first, defense second. I applaud those moderate Democrats who stood up to the radical liberals who run their party and voted against one of the most cynical pieces of legislation to come before the House in a long time.” ###
09.11.2009	“For months, I have continually pressured the Bureau to protect the integrity of the 2010 Census and end its relationship with ACORN. For months, the Bureau shamefully defended this criminal enterprise affiliated with the Democratic Party. When I met with Director Groves immediately following his confirmation, he promised me that the status of ACORN as a national partner would be reviewed. I applaud Director Groves for having the courage to do the right thing. I’m sure there are those in the Obama Administration who will not be happy with Director Groves’ decision. But it comes as welcome news to the public and all who seek an accurate and apolitical census.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the Census Oversight Subcommittee released the following statement in response to the U.S. Census Bureau terminating its partnership with the Association of Community Organizers for Reform Now (ACORN). “For months, I have continually pressured the Bureau to protect the integrity of the 2010 Census and end its relationship with ACORN. For months, the Bureau shamefully defended this criminal enterprise affiliated with the Democratic Party. When I met with Director Groves immediately following his confirmation, he promised me that the status of ACORN as a national partner would be reviewed. I applaud Director Groves for having the courage to do the right thing. I’m sure there are those in the Obama Administration who will not be happy with Director Groves’ decision. But it comes as welcome news to the public and all who seek an accurate and apolitical census.” A copy of the Bureau’s letter to ACORN can be found here. ###
09.11.2009	The Census Bureau on Friday severed its ties with ACORN, a community organization that has been hit with Republican accusations of voter-registration fraud. "We do not come to this decision lightly," Census director Robert Groves wrote in a letter to ACORN, which was obtained by The Associated Press. share: f t WASHINGTON (AP) - The Census Bureau on Friday severed its ties with ACORN, a community organization that has been hit with Republican accusations of voter-registration fraud. "We do not come to this decision lightly," Census director Robert Groves wrote in a letter to ACORN, which was obtained by The Associated Press. Continue reading here: http://www.breitbart.com/article.php?id=D9ALCUJO0&show_article=1
09.09.2009	“Each of the two possible scenarios here is troubling. If the czars have high-level, decision-making authority as their titles would indicate, then it is my concern that their appointment without Senate approval represents a circumvention of our Constitutionally-mandated confirmation process. On the other hand, if the czars have no actual power, then I am equally concerned that taxpayers are fronting the bill for the salaries of these figureheads and their staff,” states the letter from Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today called for a hearing with the 44 appointed “czars” of the Obama Administration. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee, McHenry requested that all 44 czars be called to testify about their roles and responsibilities. Such a hearing would help determine the questionable constitutionality of high-level Administration officials serving without Senate confirmation. “Each of the two possible scenarios here is troubling. If the czars have high-level, decision-making authority as their titles would indicate, then it is my concern that their appointment without Senate approval represents a circumvention of our Constitutionally-mandated confirmation process. On the other hand, if the czars have no actual power, then I am equally concerned that taxpayers are fronting the bill for the salaries of these figureheads and their staff,” states the letter from Congressman McHenry. The letter reads as follows: September 9, 2009 Chairman Edolphus Towns Ranking Member Darrell Issa Committee on Oversight Committee on Oversight & Government Reform & Government Reform U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Towns and Ranking Member Issa: I respectfully request a hearing by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on the responsibilities of the Obama Administration’s various “czars.” Article II, Section 2 of the United States Constitution provides that the President “shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint high government officials.” The Senate’s role is clearly defined in this process, requiring its advice and consent to presidential appointments to high-level positions in Cabinet departments and independent agencies. Since taking office in January, President Obama has appointed 44 policy adviser “czars” with positions of responsibility ranging from conducting our nation’s foreign policy to overhauling our health care system. These czars are neither vetted by the Senate nor required to testify before Congress on their activities. Furthermore, the scope and limitations of their authority still remain unclear. Each of the two possible scenarios here is troubling. If the czars have high-level, decision-making authority as their titles would indicate, then it is my concern that their appointment without Senate approval represents a circumvention of our Constitutionally-mandated confirmation process. On the other hand, if the czars have no actual power, then I am equally concerned that taxpayers are fronting the bill for the salaries of these figureheads and their staff. Just this past weekend, the President’s Green Jobs Czar, Van Jones, resigned after details about his radical views and previous inappropriate comments surfaced in the media. Mr. Jones’ questionable past would have been brought to light before he took his position had he been vetted by the Senate. His ability to slip into a position of power without due Congressional diligence only further underscores the necessity for a confirmation process. I ask that the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in its capacity as investigator of our federal bureaucracy, bring these appointed czars before the full committee to testify on their authority and responsibilities. The American public deserves no less than the transparency and accountability promised by this Administration of its appointed officials. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry Member of Congress ###
09.09.2009	“The President spent the majority of his speech repudiating the legislation that is ready to be voted on by Congress. “He wants to lower costs and protect ‘what works’ about our current system but the bill does neither. The President is right to say that anyone who likes their health insurance should be able to keep it. However, even the most independent observers have said that is not the case in the House bill. “In August, the American people demonstrated their desire for a less radical and more bipartisan approach to reform. I hope the President truly got that message.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s address this evening to a joint session of Congress. “The President spent the majority of his speech repudiating the legislation that is ready to be voted on by Congress. “He wants to lower costs and protect ‘what works’ about our current system but the bill does neither. The President is right to say that anyone who likes their health insurance should be able to keep it. However, even the most independent observers have said that is not the case in the House bill. “In August, the American people demonstrated their desire for a less radical and more bipartisan approach to reform. I hope the President truly got that message.” ###
09.01.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the awarding of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $40,375 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the City of Lincolnton Fire Department in Lincoln County, and comes in the forty-first round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grant funds will be used to purchase new fire and rescue equipment. “This is the Lincolnton Fire Department’s third AFG grant in the past four years,” stated Congressman McHenry. “This is a testament not only to the persuasiveness of the department’s applications but also to the professionalism and leadership shown by Lincolnton’s officers and firefighting personnel.” Lincolnton is the third Lincoln County fire department to receive AFG funding in last year’s cycle, following Boger City Volunteer Fire Department which was funded in the eleventh round and North 321 Volunteer Fire Department which was funded in the twenty-sixth round. Thus far in the 2008 fiscal cycle, $1,743,884 has been awarded in twenty-six grants to twenty-four departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
09.01.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the awarding of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $106,875 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the City of Newton Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the forty-second round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Newton Assistant Fire Chief Jerry Travis, the grant funds will be used to purchase vehicle exhaust removal systems for all three of Newton’s municipal fire stations. “This system will help protect the health and safety of fire personnel by filtering out dangerous fumes that would normally linger in the vehicle bays and possibly circulate throughout the rest of the station,” said Chief Travis. This is the Newton Fire Department’s second Homeland Security grant this year. In April, the department received a $62,292 grant under the Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) grant program. Congressman McHenry stated, “Newton has received several grants in recent years. This clearly speaks to the professionalism of the department’s officers and firefighters, and the persuasiveness of the department’s applications.” Newton is the third Catawba County fire department to receive AFG funding in this year’s cycle, following Long View Volunteer Fire Department which was funded in the fifteenth round and Bandy’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department which was funded in the twenty-first round. Thus far in the 2008 fiscal cycle, $1,743,884 has been awarded in twenty-six grants to twenty-four departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
08.18.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that he will hold a second Iredell County town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 26th at 5:00 p.m. The meeting will be at the Charles Mack Citizens Center in the Moore, Burlington, and Lowrance Meeting Rooms, 215 North Main Street in Mooresville, NC. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that he will hold a second Iredell County town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 26th at 5:00 p.m. The meeting will be at the Charles Mack Citizens Center in the Moore, Burlington, and Lowrance Meeting Rooms, 215 North Main Street in Mooresville, NC. The attendance at Congressman McHenry’s first town hall meeting in Mooresville was much larger than anticipated. As a result, the facility quickly reached maximum capacity, leaving some people unable to enter the building. Congressman McHenry pledged to hold a second town hall meeting in Iredell County to ensure that anyone who wanted to participate would have that opportunity. At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Iredell County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.14.2009	Due to the larger than expected attendance at prior town halls, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location for the Monday, August 17th town hall meeting in Morganton. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. The COMMA City of Morganton Municipal Auditorium 401 South College Street Morganton, NC 28655 Doors open at 5:00 p.m. At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Burke County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.14.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Tuesday, August 18th at 6:00 p.m. in the School Board Chambers of Rutherford County Schools Offices, 382 West Main Street in Forest City. At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Rutherford County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.14.2009	Due to the larger than expected attendance at prior town halls, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location for the Wednesday, August 19th town hall meeting in Cherryville. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. Beam Middle School Starnes Auditorium 401 East 1st Street Cherryville, NC 28021 At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Gaston County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.14.2009	Due to the larger than expected attendance at prior town halls, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location for the Thursday, August 20th town hall meeting in Shelby. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. Mildred H. Keeter Auditorium Cleveland Community College 137 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Cleveland County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.13.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement in response to an article in the Charlotte Observer that does not accurately characterize his position on the citizenship of President Obama. “As I stated last night, I have not carefully reviewed the evidence as a jurist would. However, from what I have read, I have absolutely no reason to question President Obama’s citizenship. I anticipate that as a legal matter the courts will continue to come to the same conclusion.” share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement in response to an article in the Charlotte Observer that does not accurately characterize his position on the citizenship of President Obama. “As I stated last night, I have not carefully reviewed the evidence as a jurist would. However, from what I have read, I have absolutely no reason to question President Obama’s citizenship. I anticipate that as a legal matter the courts will continue to come to the same conclusion.” ###
08.12.2009	Due to the larger than expected attendance at prior town halls, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location for the Thursday, August 13th town hall meeting in Lenoir. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. J.E. Broyhill Civic Center 1913 Hickory Blvd, SE Lenoir, NC 28645 At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Caldwell County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.11.2009	Due to a larger than expected attendance, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location of tonight’s town hall meeting in Hickory. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. Lenoir-Rhyne University P.E. Monroe Auditorium 775 6th Street NE Hickory, NC 28601 share: f t Due to a larger than expected attendance, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location of tonight’s town hall meeting in Hickory. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. Lenoir-Rhyne University P.E. Monroe Auditorium 775 6th Street NE Hickory, NC 28601 Last night’s town hall meeting in Mooresville drew more than 1,000 people. Tonight’s change of venue is necessary to better accommodate the large number of constituents who are expected to attend. ###
08.11.2009	Due to the larger than expected attendance at prior town halls, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry has changed the location of tonight’s town hall meeting in Hickory. The new location will be: 6:00 p.m. Lenoir-Rhyne University P.E. Monroe Auditorium 775 6th Street NE Hickory, NC 28601 Last night’s town hall meeting in Mooresville drew more than 1,000 people. Tonight’s change of venue is necessary to better accommodate the large number of constituents who are expected to attend. ###
08.10.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Wednesday, August 12th at 6:00 p.m. in the Auditorium of the James Warren Lincoln County Citizens’ Center, 115 West Main Street in Lincolnton. At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Lincoln County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.10.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry, Ranking Member on the Census Oversight Subcommittee sent a letter to the U.S. Census Bureau concerning its partnership with ACORN. While the Bureau has reported to Congress that ACORN is not recruiting census workers, internal documents contradict this claim. Assuming the Bureau can reconcile these contradictions and verify that ACORN has been instructed not to recruit census workers, Congressman McHenry asked, “If ACORN has been singled out in such a manner because of its long criminal history, it begs the question, why are they a national partner in the first place? If they cannot be trusted to recruit enumerators, it would seem to me that ACORN should be disqualified as a partner altogether.” Dr. Robert M. Groves Director U.S. Census Bureau 4600 Silver Hill Road Suitland, MD 20746 Dear Dr. Groves: On July 10, 2009, Acting Director Thomas Mesenbourg wrote a letter to Congress clarifying the partnership role of the political advocacy group ACORN, Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. Mr. Mesenbourg stated definitively that ACORN “will not be involved in recruiting or hiring census employees.[1] However, new information has come to my attention that requires further clarification from the Bureau. Documents from the Bureau obtained by Judicial Watch contradict Mr. Mesenbourg’s letter to Congress. One such document details the organization’s partnership responsibilities, including “Identify job candidates and/or distribute and display recruiting materials.” Bearing his signature from February 12, 2009, this form indicates that Mr. Mesenbourg approved ACORN’s role as a recruiter of census enumerators.[2] Furthermore, promotional materials for the national partnership program indicate very clearly that partners will play a role in recruiting enumerators.[3] A) How do you reconcile this evidence with Mr. Mesenbourg’s letter to Congress? B) If ACORN has been instructed specifically not to recruit enumerators, please provide the dated correspondence between the Bureau and ACORN that verifies this. C) Additionally, please provide a list of other national partners that have been instructed not to recruit enumerators. D) If ACORN has been singled out in such a manner because of its long criminal history, it begs the question, why are they a national partner in the first place? If they cannot be trusted to recruit enumerators, it would seem to me that ACORN should be disqualified as a partner altogether. In a document provided to Congress, the Bureau states that partnering organizations would be disqualified if they “could distract from the Census Bureau’s mission.[4] An internal document from the Bureau states that groups will be disqualified if they “might make people fearful of participating in the Census.[5] E) How does the criminal background of ACORN reflect positively on the Census Bureau’s mission? F) As a criminal enterprise, how could ACORN in no way distract from the Bureau's mission? Please submit written responses to the questions above to the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives by August 24, 2009. Should you have any questions or need any additional information, please contact Alexis Rudakewych at (202) 225-2576. Sincerely, Patrick T. McHenry Ranking Member Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives [1] See Bureau letter to Mr. McHenry (July 20, 2009) [2] See Bureau partnership form (February 12, 2009) [3] See Bureau Form D-3207, Become a 2010 Census Partner, (April 2008) [4] See 2010 Census Partnership Program, Partner Selection Process and Guidelines, page 2 [5] See Email, Barbara A. Harris, (March 17, 2009)
08.07.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that he will hold a town hall meeting on Monday, August 10th at 6:00 p.m. in the Town Commissioners’ Chamber at Mooresville Town Hall, 413 North Main Street in Mooresville. At the town hall meeting, Congressman McHenry will give an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Iredell County. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
07.30.2009	“As we work to end this recession and rebuild our local economy, it is critical that we provide the support our displaced workers need to get back on their feet. People are hurting, and we have a responsibility to help folks weather the storm,” said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted last night in favor of H.R.3357, replenishing the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund. The Department of Labor anticipates that the Fund will be depleted during August, requiring approximately $7.5 billion to stay solvent through 2009. The Fund covers the cost of extended unemployment benefits for jobless workers. For years, the economy of Western North Carolina has paid a steep price for unfair trade agreements. The national recession continues to drive up unemployment in the Tenth District, which now stands at 14.1%. The Obama Administration’s economic stimulus plan has failed to create jobs as intended. “As we work to end this recession and rebuild our local economy, it is critical that we provide the support our displaced workers need to get back on their feet. People are hurting, and we have a responsibility to help folks weather the storm,” said Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry continues to recognize the necessity of helping jobless workers and their families. McHenry was one of only 39 Republicans to vote for the reauthorization of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program (H.R.3920, 110th). TAA provides healthcare, job re-training and financial assistance to workers whose jobs are sent overseas as a result of trade policy. In September of last year, McHenry again voted to extend TAA (H.R.2638, 110th). In October of last year, McHenry voted for the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 6867, 110th) which extended benefits by 13 weeks in states with high unemployment like North Carolina. In June of 2008, McHenry was one of only 49 Republicans to vote for the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (H.R. 5749, 110th). The bill was signed into law on June 30, 2008 as part of the supplemental appropriations bill (H.R. 2642, 110th). NOTE: Congressman McHenry voted against the failed economic stimulus plan. (H.R.1, 111th) ###
07.30.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing on the national security breach at the National Archives. “In May, National Archives Inspector General Brachfield notified Congress that an external hard drive containing national security information had gone missing from the agency’s College Park facility sometime between October 2008 and March 2009, when its absence was first noticed. That drive contained one terabyte of data composed of Clinton presidency records and is the equivalent of “millions of books” full of information, as Mr. Brachfield has previously put it. The missing data includes more than 100,000 social security numbers, the personal contact information of presidential administration officials, entire computer files of 113 former White House employees, Secret Service and White House operating procedures, and other highly-sensitive information,” states Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry’s entire opening statement is as follows: Statement of Congressman Patrick McHenry Ranking Member Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives “National Archives and Records Administration Organizational Issues” July 30, 2009 Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this very important hearing. And Miss Thomas, I’m glad to see that you were able to make it this time to testify before our Committee. The topic of today’s hearing is “National Archives and Records Administration Organizational Issues” – but I think calling the inherent failures of Archives management to secure and account for stored data “organizational issues” is putting it far too lightly. The National Archives is an agency with an extremely important function. It serves as keeper of our nation’s valuable records, preserving government and historical records that include copies of acts of Congress, presidential proclamations, and federal regulations. While the Archives maintains public access to some documents, other records contain highly-sensitive data, and these must be secured to ensure our national security and shield personally-identifiable information. The effectiveness of the Archives as protector of the records under its control is key to preserving our history and maintaining accountability of our government. The Archives conducts truly invaluable work, yet they are an agency that the public doesn’t often hear much about. Unfortunately, they’ve been getting quite a lot of press as of late, and none of it good. In May, National Archives Inspector General Brachfeld notified Congress that an external hard drive containing national security information had gone missing from the agency’s College Park facility sometime between October 2008 and March 2009, when its absence was first noticed. That drive contained one terabyte of data composed of Clinton presidency records and is the equivalent of “millions of books” full of information, as Mr. Brachfeld has previously put it. The missing data includes more than 100,000 social security numbers, the personal contact information of presidential administration officials, entire computer files of 113 former White House employees, Secret Service and White House operating procedures, and other highly-sensitive information. Disturbingly, the missing hard drive was stored in easily-identifiable packaging in a workspace that the Archives has admitted was unsecure, unattended, and accessible to personnel without clearance. Even now, it is still not known whether the hard drive was misplaced, lost, or stolen, or even when it actually went missing. It was my hope that National Archives management would immediately react to what has been described as a “catastrophic loss” by tightening security and accessibility at their College Park facility, particularly in the area from which the hard drive was removed. However, when Oversight Committee staff visited the campus on July 17, they observed many of the same deficiencies in security measures and left with the impression that a motivated criminal would be able to remove sensitive materials with little to no resistance. There wasn’t much of an effort on the part of National Archives staff to even make it appear that substantive changes had been made to security. To be fair, the pattern of material mismanagement at the National Archives precedes Miss Thomas by quite a few years. We all still remember President Clinton’s National Security Advisor, Sandy Berger, caught walking out of the Archives with his socks stuffed with classified, uninventoried documents. There are many more alarming cases of negligence at the Archives, yet none as egregious as the disappearance of the hard drive. These include the disappearance of $6 million dollars of taxpayer-funded equipment over the period of 2002 to 2006; the disposal of countless original records from the Bureau of Indian Affairs with the Archives’ trash; and the disappearance of 55,000 pages of CIA and other federal agency records right off the shelf in 2006. There is a prevalent culture of carelessness at the National Archives, and it must be replaced with meticulous accounting for all materials – paper and electronic – and stringent security measures that restrict access of unauthorized employees to areas where confidential data is kept. On Tuesday, President Obama announced he had selected his nominee for an Archivist to replace Miss Thomas – David Ferriero. Quite frankly, I believe this announcement could not come soon enough. Mr. Ferriero has certainly had a lot of experience managing mass quantities of paper and electronic documents in his tenure as director of research libraries at the New York Public Library, and I look forward to hearing about his qualifications as well as how he plans to turn around the National Archives at his Senate confirmation hearing. I thank our witnesses for appearing today and I am very interested to hear an explanation of how the theft of a hard drive full of sensitive information from the National Archives could occur and what sort of measures are being taken to prevent a recurrence. ###
07.29.2009	At his town hall meetings, Congressman McHenry gives an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the schedule for his annual town hall meetings. As always, Congressman McHenry will hold a town hall meeting in each of the 10 counties comprising the 10th District of North Carolina. At his town hall meetings, Congressman McHenry gives an update on recent legislative activity in Congress and what to expect in the coming months. Town hall meetings are an opportunity for constituents to share their thoughts on the issues they are concerned about. Additionally, the Congressman’s staff will be available to meet privately with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service. “These are challenging times for the citizens of Western North Carolina. As Congress considers sweeping legislation impacting our economy, energy security, and healthcare, it is vital that I get feedback from my constituents,” Congressman McHenry stated. The schedule and locations for the town hall meetings are as follows: Avery County Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 4th at 6:00 p.m. Avery County Commissioners’ Board Room 175 Linville Street, 2nd Floor Newland, NC 28657 Mitchell County Town Hall Meeting Thursday, Aug 6th at 6:00 p.m. Spruce Pine Public Library Community Meeting Room 142 Walnut Avenue Spruce Pine, NC 28777 Iredell County Town Hall Meeting #1 Monday, August 10th at 6:00 p.m. Mooresville Town Hall Town Commissioners’ Chamber 413 North Main Street Mooresville, NC 28655 Catawba County Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 11th at 6:00 p.m. Lenoir-Rhyne University P.E. Monroe Auditorium 775 6th Street NE Hickory, NC 28601 Lincoln County Town Hall Meeting Wednesday, August 12th at 6:00 p.m. James Warren Lincoln County Citizens Center Auditorium 115 West Main Street Lincolnton, NC 28092 Caldwell County Town Hall Meeting Thursday, August 13th at 6:00 p.m. J.E. Broyhill Civic Center 1913 Hickory Boulevard, SE Lenoir, NC 28645 Burke County Town Hall Meeting Monday, August 17th at 6:00 p.m. The COMMA City of Morganton Municipal Auditorium 401 South College Street Morganton, NC 28655 Rutherford County Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, August 18th at 6:00 p.m. Rutherford County Schools Offices School Board Chambers 382 West Main Street Forest City, NC 28043 Gaston County Town Hall Meeting Wednesday, August 19th at 6:00 p.m. Beam Middle School Starnes Auditorium 401 East 1st Street Cherryville, NC 28021 Cleveland County Town Hall Meeting Thursday, August 20th at 6:00 p.m. Cleveland Community College Mildred H. Keeter Auditorium 137 South Post Road Shelby, NC 28152 Iredell County Town Hall Meeting #2 Wednesday, August 26th at 5:00 p.m. Charles Mack Citizens Center Moore, Burlington, & Lowrance Meeting Rooms 215 North Main Street Mooresville, NC 28115 ###
07.28.2009	“Too often disabled veterans lack the resources to address needed improvements to their homes. We have an obligation to help our disabled veterans maintain suitable living conditions,” said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted for H.R.1293, the Disabled Veterans Home Improvement and Structural Alternation Grant Increase Act. The bill more than doubles the amount paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for structural alterations for homes of veterans with service-connected disabilities. “Too often disabled veterans lack the resources to address needed improvements to their homes. We have an obligation to help our disabled veterans maintain suitable living conditions,” said Congressman McHenry. Two additional pieces of legislation supported by Congressman McHenry were passed out of the House of Representatives yesterday, H.R.3219, the Veterans’ Insurance and Health Care Improvement Act, and H.R.2770, the Veterans Nonprofit Research and Education Corporations Enhancement Act. H.R.3219 makes permanent a current temporary extension of Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance coverage for disabled veterans. The legislation also prohibits the VA from collecting copayments from catastrophically disabled veterans. H.R.2770 amends federal provisions to expand nonprofit research and education at VA medical centers. ###
07.27.2009	“The so-called ‘public option’ is a dramatic first step toward government-rationed healthcare in the United States. Any elected representative who thinks that government bureaucrats should be making healthcare decisions for their constituents must accept an identical fate,” said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that he has co-sponsored House Resolution 615. The resolution states that any Member of Congress who votes in favor of establishing a government-run health insurance option for all Americans must personally enroll in it. Members of Congress now have the option to enroll in the same health insurance plan offered to all employees of the federal government, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). However, if H.Res.615 is adopted, Members of Congress voting for a public health insurance program would forego their right to participate in FEHBP. Instead, they would be obligated to have the same health care coverage they believe is good enough for the American people. “The so-called ‘public option’ is a dramatic first step toward government-rationed healthcare in the United States. Any elected representative who thinks that government bureaucrats should be making healthcare decisions for their constituents must accept an identical fate,” said Congressman McHenry. ###
07.24.2009	“Complex and cumbersome mortgage disclosure forms are often difficult to understand for homebuyers,” said Congressman McHenry. “These disclosure rules will make the borrowing process significantly simpler and more transparent.” share: f t Today, the Federal Reserve released a proposed update to its consumer protection regulatory authority concerning mortgages and home loans. The update includes the requirements for mortgage disclosure originally proposed by Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and Democratic Congressman Al Green (TX-9). The Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act authored by McHenry and Green required mortgage lenders to give every borrower a one-page summary of important information regarding their loan. This disclosure form would contain key loan terms such as the total loan amount, the initial “teaser” interest rate and fully-indexed rate, mortgage originator fees, prepayment penalties, and balloon payments. “Complex and cumbersome mortgage disclosure forms are often difficult to understand for homebuyers,” said Congressman McHenry. “These disclosure rules will make the borrowing process significantly simpler and more transparent.” The Federal Reserve’s proposal would: • Improve the disclosure of the annual percentage rate (APR) so it captures most fees and settlement costs paid by consumers; • Require lenders to show how the consumer’s APR compares to the average rate offered to borrowers with excellent credit; • Require lenders to provide final Truth in Lending Act (TILA) disclosures so that consumers receive them at least three business days before loan closing; and • Require lenders to show consumers how much their monthly payments might increase, for adjustable-rate mortgages. ###
07.22.2009	“With efforts underway to increase cooperation among regulatory entities, this evidence raises serious questions about the Federal Reserve’s commitment to collaboration with other regulators and about the wisdom of concentrating even more power in this entity,” stated Congressman McHenry’s letter. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, announced that he and several Committee members have sent a letter to President Obama concerning the proposed expansion of power at the Federal Reserve. The Obama Administration’s financial services regulatory reform proposal would dramatically expand the authority and responsibility of the Federal Reserve. Among other new powers, the Federal Reserve would become the “systemic risk” regulator over the entire economy. The troubling conduct of the Federal Reserve in negotiating the merger between Bank of America and Merrill Lynch has significantly degraded confidence in the institution. Among the many allegations, there is substantial evidence that the Federal Reserve purposely kept federal regulators in the dark throughout the course of the negotiations. “With efforts underway to increase cooperation among regulatory entities, this evidence raises serious questions about the Federal Reserve’s commitment to collaboration with other regulators and about the wisdom of concentrating even more power in this entity,” stated Congressman McHenry’s letter. As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform, Congressman McHenry has been instrumental in the effort to shed light on the federal government’s actions during the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch deal. Congressman McHenry is co-sponsoring H.R.1207, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act, which would eliminate restrictions on audits of the Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office and subjects the Fed’s operations to greater scrutiny. The Comptroller General would be directed to complete, before the end of 2010, an audit of the Federal Reserve System and report its finding to the Congress. ###
07.17.2009	Taken from subpoenaed documents and news accounts, the following details Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner’s involvement in the controversial merger between Bank of America and Merrill Lynch. As the President of the New York Federal Reserve at the time, Secretary Geithner and his staff played an active role in the government-brokered merger. Just as Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson have done, Secretary Geithner must now come before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to testify on this matter. share: f t Taken from subpoenaed documents and news accounts, the following details Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner’s involvement in the controversial merger between Bank of America and Merrill Lynch. As the President of the New York Federal Reserve at the time, Secretary Geithner and his staff played an active role in the government-brokered merger. Just as Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson have done, Secretary Geithner must now come before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to testify on this matter. According to the notes, which were provided to the Congressional committee by Bank of America, Mr. Bernanke told him [Ken Lewis]: “Geithner, Summers and Paulson up to date. Geithner would like to see what is done as a template for the industry.” (source: New York Times, June 12, 2009) Geithner was also fully briefed and involved in the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch discussions in mid-December. According to Secretary Paulson’s personal schedule obtained by the Committee, after his conversation with Ken Lewis about the MAC [Material Adverse Clause] on December 19, 2008, the first person Paulson called was Geithner.(1) An email Geithner sent the following day on December 20 – one day before Lewis backed down from the MAC threat – recording what appears to have been a discussion with Paulson on Bank of America pulling a MAC. It reads in part: BofA/ML [i.e., Bank of America/Merrill Lynch]. Can’t MAC. Have to close. Maybe more time than 1/1.(2) On that same day, Geithner emailed Federal Reserve Governor Kevin Warsh to ask him: Are you all over [Bank of America/Merrill Lynch] and are you getting what you need from the troops? (3)** ** Indicates Geithner’s staff was doing the leg work on the merger, as one would expect given the location of the New York Federal Reserve Another email from Federal Reserve Bank of New York employee Arthur Angulo to New York Fed General Counsel Thomas Baxter also demonstrates the government’s concern to control the flow of information to the public and shareholders. In this email, Mr. Angulo says he will call Merrill Lynch’s Chief Financial Officer Nelson Chai: I’ll ask about: [Merrill Lynch’s] current estimate of [4th Quarter] loss[es] v[ersus] market expectations and whether and when [Merrill Lynch] intends to file an 8-K. If I get a sense that [Merrill Lynch] is leaning toward an early January filing, I’ll try to steer him toward a later filing. If I get a sense that [Merrill Lynch] is committed to an early January filing, I’ll ask for a follow-up discussion with appropriate securities counsel at [Merrill Lynch] to gain a better sense as to the amount of flexibility [Merrill Lynch] has in this regard.(4) Citations: (1) Paulson personal schedule provided to the Committee. (2) See email, Timothy Geithner, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, (December 20, 2008), Bates BOG-BAC-ML-COGR000309. (3) See email, Timothy Geithner, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, (December 20, 2008), Bates BOG-BAC-ML-COGR000310. (4) See email, Arthur Angulo, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, (December 22, 2008), Bates BOG-BAC-ML-COGR-000127.
07.13.2009	Farm-related and nonfarm-related small businesses and small agricultural cooperatives in Avery and Mitchell counties are eligible for assistance. Local small businesses who experienced significant financial losses resulting from the drought of 2008 may qualify for loans up to $2 million. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the application deadline for federal economic injury disaster loans offered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is August 10th. Farm-related and nonfarm-related small businesses and small agricultural cooperatives in Avery and Mitchell counties are eligible for assistance. Local small businesses who experienced significant financial losses resulting from the drought of 2008 may qualify for loans up to $2 million. Economic Injury Disaster Loans are available at a 4 percent interest rate with loan terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the business, type of activity and its financial resources. Under this disaster declaration, SBA cannot provide loans to agricultural producers. Disaster victims should contact the SBA’s Customer Service Center by calling 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the hearing-impaired) or by emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can be downloaded from the SBA’s website www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925, Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. Victims may also visit SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela/ to apply. ###
07.13.2009	“I congratulate Dr. Groves on his confirmation as our next Census Director. Because of his past support of manipulating census results, Dr. Groves would not have been my first choice for the position. However, having ruled out the use of statistical adjustment, I believe Dr. Groves is well positioned and well qualified to lead an accurate and successful 2010 Decennial. I look forward to working with Dr. Groves to ensure that Congress meets its obligations to provide vigorous and constructive oversight of the Bureau’s operations.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, released the following statement in response to the confirmation of Dr. Robert Groves as Director of the U.S. Census Bureau. “I congratulate Dr. Groves on his confirmation as our next Census Director. Because of his past support of manipulating census results, Dr. Groves would not have been my first choice for the position. However, having ruled out the use of statistical adjustment, I believe Dr. Groves is well positioned and well qualified to lead an accurate and successful 2010 Decennial. I look forward to working with Dr. Groves to ensure that Congress meets its obligations to provide vigorous and constructive oversight of the Bureau’s operations.” ###
07.09.2009	“Apparently politics does not stop even in a time of national crisis. Americans of all stripes are struggling to weather the storm of recession. For the Administration to decide based on politics that one set of Americans is more deserving than another of our collective tax dollars is reprehensible. If you voted for John McCain last year that should not mean that you are less deserving of an economic recovery than someone who voted for the President." share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement in response to a report showing that the Obama Administration is dispersing economic stimulus funds based on partisan politics. According to USA Today, counties that voted for President Obama last year are receiving more than twice as much funding as those counties that voted for Senator McCain. The 872 Obama counties have received $69 per person on average while the 2,234 McCain counties have received only $34. “Apparently politics does not stop even in a time of national crisis. Americans of all stripes are struggling to weather the storm of recession. For the Administration to decide based on politics that one set of Americans is more deserving than another of our collective tax dollars is reprehensible. If you voted for John McCain last year that should not mean that you are less deserving of an economic recovery than someone who voted for the President. In the face of these clear facts, White House denials insult the intelligence of the American people. I call on President Obama to take immediate action to resolve this shameful injustice or risk his Administration’s credibility with fair-minded Americans.” ###
07.01.2009	“Every elected representative in this country should feel a responsibility to encourage full participation in the census. To do otherwise is to advocate for a smaller share of federal funding for our constituents. Boycotting the constitutionally-mandated census is illogical, illegal and not in the best interest of our country. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3), and Congressman John Mica (FL-7), Republican members of the Census Oversight Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding Congresswoman Michele Bachmann’s boycott of the 2010 Decennial Census. “We share Ms. Bachmann’s concerns about ACORN’s involvement in the 2010 Census and will continue pressuring the Bureau to follow their own guidelines for partnering organizations and dump ACORN. However, we can not emphasize enough how important it is for every individual to fill out their census forms. “Every elected representative in this country should feel a responsibility to encourage full participation in the census. To do otherwise is to advocate for a smaller share of federal funding for our constituents. Boycotting the constitutionally-mandated census is illogical, illegal and not in the best interest of our country. “The unfortunate irony is that Ms. Bachmann’s boycott only increases the likelihood that ACORN-recruited census takers will be dispatched to her constituents’ homes. Anyone who completes and returns their census form will remove any need for a census taker to visit their residence. “Furthermore, a boycott opens the door for partisans to statistically adjust census results. The partisan manipulation of census data would irreparably transform the census from being the baseline of our entire statistical system into a tool used to wield political power in Washington.” NOTE: The 2010 Decennial Census, not to be confused with the American Community Survey, will strictly utilize a short-form questionnaire for the first time ever. Under Sections 9 and 24 of Title 13, information collected by the Census Bureau is confidential and not shared with any other federal agency. Only an act of Congress could alter this statute. ###
06.26.2009	So I fail to see the wisdom in eliminating 88,000 jobs in North Carolina alone, raising energy prices by $1,400 annually on every household, and hiking gasoline prices by 77 cents per gallon. For what? So we can possibly lower the earth’s temperature by two-tenths of a degree by the end of the century. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 2454, the cap-and-trade bill. "For this Congress to cut jobs and raise energy costs on working families at a time like this truly boggles the mind. The economy is shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs every month and families are struggling to pay their bills. So I fail to see the wisdom in eliminating 88,000 jobs in North Carolina alone, raising energy prices by $1,400 annually on every household, and hiking gasoline prices by 77 cents per gallon. For what? So we can possibly lower the earth’s temperature by two-tenths of a degree by the end of the century. Any serious climate change initiative must include binding commitments from China and India to reduce carbon emissions. In the absence of that, we are asking the American people to bear enormous sacrifices at a time when they can least afford it – for two-tenths of a degree by 2100.” (sources: Heritage Foundation, Congressional Budget Office, American Petroleum Institute) NOTES: Groups opposing the legislation include the National Association of Manufacturers, National Textile Association, and American Farm Bureau Federation. “Under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.” – President Barack Obama “Nobody in this country realizes that cap-and-trade is a tax, and it’s a great big one.” – Congressman John Dingell (D-MI) ###
06.26.2009	“This subcommittee has a constitutional obligation to work as a partner with the Census Bureau to ensure a successful 2010 Decennial. Having not held a census hearing since March, we are clearly not holding up our end of the bargain. I respectfully request that we immediately convene a hearing to address the stated concerns you have regarding the Bureau’s address canvassing effort – the ‘cornerstone of a successful census’,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the Census Oversight Subcommittee, sent a letter to Subcommittee Chairman William Lacy Clay (MO-1) calling for a hearing on address canvassing. “This subcommittee has a constitutional obligation to work as a partner with the Census Bureau to ensure a successful 2010 Decennial. Having not held a census hearing since March, we are clearly not holding up our end of the bargain. I respectfully request that we immediately convene a hearing to address the stated concerns you have regarding the Bureau’s address canvassing effort – the ‘cornerstone of a successful census’,” stated Congressman McHenry. The letter reads as follows: The Honorable William Lacy Clay Chairman Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Clay: Three months have passed since the Subcommittee last held a hearing on the 2010 Census. In that time, the subcommittee has met twice but on unrelated issues. As we head into the July 4 recess, our only scheduled census hearing – on the use of collected census data in allocating federal funding – has been postponed. There have been many developments in census issues since our last hearing in March, such as the recently completed address canvassing effort. Acting Census Bureau Director Mesenbourg has called this stage in operations the “cornerstone” of the 2010 Census. You have also expressed your own concerns about the need to review address canvassing, releasing a statement in which you hesitated to call the operation a success because of “some unanswered questions.” I urge you to convene the subcommittee for a timely hearing and bring representatives from the Census Bureau in to answer these questions. Sincerely, Patrick T. McHenry Ranking Member Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives ###
06.19.2009	The involvement of ACORN, an organization with a history of falsifying government documents, threatens the integrity and accuracy of the 2010 Decennial Census. ACORN continues to recruit its employees to serve as census takers. “I respectfully request a written explanation to Congress detailing why ACORN’s involvement is so essential that the Bureau must bend its own rules to allow it,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, has sent a second correspondence to the U.S. Census Bureau regarding its partnership with the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). On May 11th, Congressman McHenry sent his initial inquiry on this matter. The Bureau has failed to respond. The involvement of ACORN, an organization with a history of falsifying government documents, threatens the integrity and accuracy of the 2010 Decennial Census. ACORN continues to recruit its employees to serve as census takers. “I respectfully request a written explanation to Congress detailing why ACORN’s involvement is so essential that the Bureau must bend its own rules to allow it,” stated Congressman McHenry. The letter reads as follows: Mr. Thomas L. Mesenbourg Acting Director U.S. Census Bureau 4600 Silver Hill Road Suitland, MD 20746 Dear Mr. Mesenbourg: On May 11, 2009, Members of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives sent a letter to the Census Bureau requesting written explanation for the continued involvement of the criminally-charged Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) in 2010 Census operations. To date, we have not received a response from the Bureau on this matter. Please submit the requested information to the Subcommittee as soon as possible. Should you have any questions or require any additional information, please contact Chapin Fay at (202) 225-5074. Sincerely, Patrick T. McHenry Ranking Member Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives ###
06.17.2009	“Empowering regulators to require greater disclosure and transparency is a critical component of regulatory reform. We must strive to give investors the information they need to make sound financial decisions," said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) praised a particular aspect of the Obama Administration’s broad outline for regulatory reform of the financial sector. In March, Congressman McHenry introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act to address much-needed reform in the credit rating market. As mortgage products were packaged and sold as securities during the boom in the housing market, the credit rating industry consistently gave undeservedly-high ratings to many of these securities. This was a significant contributor to the financial crisis that followed. Today, the Obama Administration offered an outline of its proposal for reforming the regulatory structure over the financial industry. The Administration’s proposal regarding credit rating disclosure reads, “Investors and credit rating agencies should have access to the information necessary to assess the credit quality of the assets underlying a securitization transaction at inception and over the life of the transaction, as well as the information necessary to assess the credit, market and liquidity, and other asset-backed securities.” McHenry said he would reserve judgment regarding the full scope of the President’s plan, but offered praise for including the thrust of his credit rating proposal. “Empowering regulators to require greater disclosure and transparency is a critical component of regulatory reform. We must strive to give investors the information they need to make sound financial decisions," said Congressman McHenry. ###
06.16.2009	The VA will lease space, previously occupied by CVS Pharmacy, in the Rutherford Square Shopping Center at 374 Charlotte Road in Rutherfordton. The 6,500-square feet facility will serve an estimated 3,600 local veterans in Rutherford, Cleveland and Polk Counties. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and Congressman Health Shuler (NC-11) announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has selected a location for a Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Rutherford County. The VA will lease space, previously occupied by CVS Pharmacy, in the Rutherford Square Shopping Center at 374 Charlotte Road in Rutherfordton. The 6,500-square feet facility will serve an estimated 3,600 local veterans in Rutherford, Cleveland and Polk Counties. Scheduled to open by the fall of 2009, the CBOC will provide primary care and mental health services. The Charles George VA Medical Center in Asheville will be responsible for the management and staffing of personnel including primary care physicians and mental health specialists. “Better health care closer to home, that’s what the new Rutherford VA clinic means to our local veterans. We must meet the challenge of providing accessible quality health care for the growing ranks of American veterans,” Congressman McHenry stated. “Our veterans deserve the best health care possible,” Shuler said. “We have asked much from our service members, and this new clinic is one way to give something back.” Veterans who are interested in receiving care at the Rutherford County Clinic may register at the Charles George VAMC, on-line at: www.va.gov or www.asheville.va.gov or contact the VAMC Eligibility Office at (828) 299-2509. Questions specifically about the Charles George VAMC or the Rutherford County Clinic may be referred to Jerry Thomas, VAMC Public Affairs Officer, at 828-296-4446. For more information on VISN 6 contact Darlene Edwards at (804) 675-5242. ###
06.11.2009	“Unfortunately, Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch, and its controversial receipt of TARP funds from the federal government shortly after, is a saga that has played out largely in the newspapers, rather than under congressional oversight in committee hearings. It is regrettable that neither former Secretary Paulson, nor Secretary Geithner, nor any representatives from the current Administration agreed to testify alongside Mr. Lewis today. We have materials from the Fed, but no one to speak to them. This is preposterous. We are left with only one side of the story to hear, and no context in which to place it. I hope that we will be able to bring the other parties to this deal in before the Committee at a future date and put the rest of the pieces together in this puzzle,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The hearing dealt with the acquisition of Merrill Lynch by Charlotte-based Bank of America. Congressman McHenry has raised concerns about the Treasury Department’s conduct in negotiating the deal. “Unfortunately, Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch, and its controversial receipt of TARP funds from the federal government shortly after, is a saga that has played out largely in the newspapers, rather than under congressional oversight in committee hearings. It is regrettable that neither former Secretary Paulson, nor Secretary Geithner, nor any representatives from the current Administration agreed to testify alongside Mr. Lewis today. We have materials from the Fed, but no one to speak to them. This is preposterous. We are left with only one side of the story to hear, and no context in which to place it. I hope that we will be able to bring the other parties to this deal in before the Committee at a future date and put the rest of the pieces together in this puzzle,” stated Congressman McHenry. Statement of Congressman Patrick McHenry Committee on Oversight & Government Reform “Bank of America and Merrill Lynch: How did a Private Deal Turn Into a Federal Bailout” June 11, 2009 In September of 2008, Bank of America Corporation announced it would acquire the struggling brokerage giant, Merrill Lynch, in a $50 billion all-stock transaction. By adding Merrill Lynch’s more than 16,000 financial advisers to its team, Bank of America now has the largest retail brokerage in the world with more than 20,000 advisers and $2.5 trillion in client assets. The acquisition has propelled Bank of America to the top of the list as the leading underwriter of global high yield debt and the third largest underwriter of global equity. Shortly after closing the deal on Merrill on January 1st, Bank of America was on the receiving end of a $20 billion injection from the federal government for “troubled” financial companies – a shock to shareholders and pension holders – as a result of an inherited $15 billion net loss incurred by Merrill in the last months of 2008. Since then, the company and Mr. Lewis have been vilified by the public and the press for not disclosing losses at Merrill before the merger was finalized. However, details have emerged over the last three months about the role of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve in the plan for a healthy company to buy another that was considered a systemic risk by the government. The more we learn about the government’s conduct, the more troubling the story becomes. When he appeared before NY Attorney General Cuomo, Mr. Lewis stated that Bank of America faced intense pressure to buy Merrill in order to absorb their financial woes and keep them from spreading across the industry, and that he was instructed to remain silent while the two sides negotiated government funding to do so. I can appreciate that the Treasury Department felt that this transaction was important because of the perceived risk Merrill’s collapse would pose to the entire financial system. However, that does not justify the tactics that were employed. As a result, shareholders were kept in the dark about the losses Bank of America was taking ownership of. A high-ranking government official threatening the employment of bank officials is not an appropriate means to closing a deal of such magnitude. Unfortunately, Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch, and its controversial receipt of TARP funds from the federal government shortly after, is a saga that has played out largely in the newspapers rather than under congressional oversight in committee hearings. It is regrettable that neither former Secretary Paulson, nor Secretary Geithner, nor any representatives from the current Administration agreed to testify alongside Mr. Lewis today. We have materials from the Fed – but no one to speak to them. This is preposterous. We are left with only one side of the story to hear, and no context in which to place it. I hope that we will be able to bring the other parties to this deal in before the Committee at a future date and put the rest of the pieces together in this puzzle. The testimony we will hear today from Mr. Lewis begs the question – How do we regulate systemic risk into the future? – a question that’s being discussed right now in the Financial Services Committee, on which I also serve. As Congress begins to dissect the events of the past several months, I hope we, along with the American public, are able to get a much better understanding of what has transpired behind the scenes. ###
06.09.2009	“Including census workers would be disingenuous at best. First, the Obama Administration didn’t invent the census; these are positions which are created every ten years, regardless of who occupies the White House. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, issued the following query regarding Obama Administration officials’ claims that the stimulus package will “save or create” 600,000 jobs over the next 100 days. “As hiring for the 2010 Census continues, the American people ought to know whether the Obama Administration is attempting to include the thousands of temporary and part-time census workers in their count of 600,000 jobs ‘saved or created.’ “Including census workers would be disingenuous at best. First, the Obama Administration didn’t invent the census; these are positions which are created every ten years, regardless of who occupies the White House. “Furthermore, attempting to combine these part-time and temporary jobs to count them as full-time positions is not an accurate picture of the nature of the work. As many families struggling to make ends meet with a series of part-time jobs can tell you, two part-time jobs does not equal one full-time job. “I hope the Administration will be forthcoming about whether these temporary positions, which would have been created regardless of stimulus spending, are included in their jobs count.” Note: The 2010 Decennial Census is expected to result in 200,000 hires in 2009, which the Office of Management and Budget scores as the equivalent of 17,197 full-time positions. In 2010, the Census Bureau will hire an estimated 700,000 workers, the equivalent of 105,391 full-time positions. ###
05.21.2009	A recent security breach at the National Archives resulted in the loss or theft of a hard drive containing national security information, 100,000 social security numbers, Secret Service and White House procedures, and other highly sensitive information. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, delivered the remarks below at today’s oversight hearing. A recent security breach at the National Archives resulted in the loss or theft of a hard drive containing national security information, 100,000 social security numbers, Secret Service and White House procedures, and other highly sensitive information. Subcommittee Republicans requested that Acting Archivist Adrienne Thomas appear as the minority witness at today’s hearing. Ms. Thomas refused, choosing instead to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony. Statement of Congressman Patrick McHenry Ranking Member Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives “Stakeholders’ Views on the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)” May 21, 2009 The National Archives is an agency with an extremely important function. The archiving of our government’s valuable records requires a methodical approach to guarantee the preservation of documents with continuing value to the American people. Some of these records contain highly sensitive information, and these records must be secured to protect national security and personally- identifiable information. The effectiveness of the Archives as protector of the records under its control is a piece of the national security puzzle. This is why I am so troubled by a pattern of careless handling of sensitive material by the Archives. This week, the Inspector General of the Archives described a potentially catastrophic loss of data to our Committee’s staff. The Inspector General, with the assistance of the Justice Department and the Secret Service, is currently investigating the loss of a hard drive containing one terabyte of data derived from records from the Clinton presidency that went missing from the Archives’ College Park facility. One terabyte of data is the approximate equivalent of several million books. Data on the drive includes more than 100,000 social security numbers, contact information and home addresses for various Clinton administration officials, Secret Service and White House operating procedures, event logs, social gathering logs, political records and other highly-sensitive information. The full extent of the contents of the drive is still being investigated. The IG characterized the violation as “the greatest loss ever and troubling and amazing.” The IG described for us an environment at the College Park facility where hundreds of employees have access to sensitive data; where janitors, visitors, interns and others with no clearance are able to walk through areas where hard drives containing national secrets are just lying around. In fact, Archives employees use the area where the hard drive was left as a shortcut to the bathroom. The door to that room is left open because the room gets too hot. This incident would be troubling if it was isolated, but it is even more alarming because it is part of a pattern. All you have to do is read the reports released by the IG over the last few years to see that the loss of this hard drive is just the latest example of carelessness at the Archives. Archives employees were accidentally or intentionally throwing away original Bureau of Indian Affairs records so frequently that a rule was put in place that required security officers and janitors to check the trash before taking it out to the dumpster. These records are irreplaceable and they were being thrown in the trash by Archives personnel. The failures of Archives security protocols are seemingly endless. In 2007, an annual inventory identified as missing approximately 559 equipment items with memory storage capability and the potential for storing sensitive personal identifying information. A report published in 2006 revealed the CIA and other federal agencies had to re-classify over 55,000 pages of records taken from the open shelves at the Archives. In 2005, President Clinton’s former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger pled guilty to unlawfully removing documents from the Archives. Yesterday, the Partnership for Public Service and American University’s Institute for the Study of Public Policy Implementation (ISPPI) released their report of best and worst places to work in the federal government for 2009. Unsurprisingly, the National Archives and Records Administration ranked 29 out of 30 overall. In the categories of Leaders, Supervisors, and Strategic Management, the Archives ranked a paltry 22, 20, and 21, respectively. Acting Archivist Adrienne Thomas was invited to appear today but she declined. Ms. Thomas decided that her presence at a ribbon-cutting ceremony was of far greater importance. Her failure to grasp the gravity of the situation is shocking. She certainly has some explaining to do. And there are immediate questions that she needed to be here today to answer. Has an inventory been done to determine if any other records are missing? What immediate security measures have been taken to prevent further loss or theft? Given the pattern of mismanagement and carelessness at the National Archives, I look forward to working with Chairman Clay to schedule a hearing with Ms. Thomas as soon as possible. She must be given the opportunity to account for her negligence and Congress must fulfill its obligation to provide meaningful oversight of the National Archives. We are here today to discuss what qualifications President Obama should look for when he names a new Archivist. It is clear that a replacement for Ms. Thomas cannot be named soon enough. The input of professionals from the Archives would be helpful but there is not a single representative from the Archives present. I thank the witnesses for appearing and I only wish they were joined by the people we most needed to hear from today. ###
05.15.2009	“I commend Dr. Groves for his well-articulated understanding of the consequences of partisan meddling in the census. Dr. Groves’ statement encapsulates precisely why the political manipulation of census data should never be experimented with. Statistical adjustment has been proven to increase the inaccuracy of the census count and would unquestionably ensure partisan politics as the guiding force behind census results." share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, released the following the statement in response to Dr. Robert Groves’ confirmation hearing to be Director of the U.S. Census Bureau. In his opening remarks, Dr. Groves stated, “If the information is believed to be slanted by partisan influence, the credibility of the statistics is destroyed. Once destroyed, the public trust cannot be easily or quickly restored.” “I commend Dr. Groves for his well-articulated understanding of the consequences of partisan meddling in the census. Dr. Groves’ statement encapsulates precisely why the political manipulation of census data should never be experimented with. Statistical adjustment has been proven to increase the inaccuracy of the census count and would unquestionably ensure partisan politics as the guiding force behind census results. Protecting the ‘credibility of the statistics’ is reason enough for the bureau to stop accepting census takers from the ranks of ACORN, an organization skilled at committing fraud with government forms.” ###
05.14.2009	“The strong bipartisan support for this funding sends an important message to our troops in the field. This nation has unwavering support for your work and the sacrifices it demands,” said Congressman McHenry. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) voted in favor of H.R.2346, the 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations bill. The bipartisan measure passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 368 to 60. The legislation funds ongoing war and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides $734 million for more than 170,000 service members who have had their enlistments involuntarily extended since September 11, 2001. Service members would receive $500 for every month they were retained under “stop-loss” orders. “The strong bipartisan support for this funding sends an important message to our troops in the field. This nation has unwavering support for your work and the sacrifices it demands,” said Congressman McHenry. The measure dedicates $3.6 billion to expand and improve the capabilities of the Afghan security forces. To better protect our forces, $4.8 billion will fund lightweight Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles. Another $1.2 billion will be invested in defense health programs to support military families and $263 million to accelerate construction of new military hospitals. ###
05.11.2009	In light of this serious charge, we write to request that the Census Bureau reconsider its inclusion of ACORN in the Planning Partnership Program for the 2010 Census. ACORN’s involvement may compromise our shared commitment to an apolitical and accurate census count. share: f t Today, Republican Members of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives sent the following letter to the U.S. Census Bureau concerning its partnership with the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). Mr. Thomas L. Mesenbourg Acting Director U.S. Census Bureau 4600 Silver Hill Road Suitland, MD 20746 Dear Mr. Mesenbourg: On May 4, 2009, Nevada’s Attorney General filed criminal charges against the political advocacy group Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) for its role in voter registration fraud during the 2008 presidential campaign. While there have been countless indictments brought against ACORN employees, this is the first charge filed against the organization itself. In light of this serious charge, we write to request that the Census Bureau reconsider its inclusion of ACORN in the Planning Partnership Program for the 2010 Census. ACORN’s involvement may compromise our shared commitment to an apolitical and accurate census count. In response to hearing questions submitted by Members of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the Census Bureau has previously stated that it will “not select partner organizations” that could “distract from the Census Bureau’s mission.” The Bureau also stated that “strong emphasis is placed on early identification and the urgency of swift remedial action” and that “if fraud is suspected, [an] enumerator will be relieved of duty.” The Bureau must hold partnering organizations to the same reasonable standards as its enumerators. No one questions the desire of the Census Bureau to ensure the integrity of the census enumeration. However, if the Bureau believes that ACORN should remain a partner, we request written explanation of why its involvement is so essential that the credibility of the 2010 Census should be jeopardized. Please submit the requested information to the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives as soon as possible. Should you have any questions or need any additional information please contact Chapin Fay at (202) 225-5074. Sincerely, Patrick T. McHenry Lynn A. Westmoreland Ranking Member Member of Congress Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives John L. Mica Jason Chaffetz Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
05.07.2009	“Mr. Groves must state unequivocally that statistical adjustment of the 2010 Census will not occur under his leadership. Political tampering with Census results would produce an inaccurate count and permanently end the 219-year tradition of a non-partisan Census,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, offered four questions today to be asked of Robert M. Groves, President Obama’s nominee to be Director of the U.S. Census Bureau. Mr. Groves’ confirmation hearing before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs will be held on Tuesday, May 12th. The conduct of the 2010 Decennial Census has been a point of controversy for the Obama Administration. Attempts by the White House to exert operational authority over the Census led Senator Judd Gregg to withdraw his name from consideration for Commerce Secretary. The potential for the political manipulation of Census data has been a concern for those seeking a non-partisan and accurate Census. At his confirmation hearing, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke stated that there were “no plans” to use statistical adjustment for the 2010 Census. However, the nomination of Mr. Groves raises fresh concerns about the White House’s desire to manipulate Census data for partisan advantage. As an Associate Director at the Bureau, Mr. Groves’ attempts at “political tampering” with 1990 Census results were well-documented and rightly rejected. “Mr. Groves must state unequivocally that statistical adjustment of the 2010 Census will not occur under his leadership. Political tampering with Census results would produce an inaccurate count and permanently end the 219-year tradition of a non-partisan Census,” stated Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry and his fellow Republicans on the subcommittee have joined their Democratic colleagues in supporting the Census Bureau’s unprecedented efforts and unprecedented level of funding to bolster enumeration in harder-to-count communities. Congressman McHenry encouraged Members of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs to ask the following four questions of Mr. Groves: 1. How would you respond to efforts by the White House to exert political influence over the conduct of the 2010 Census? 2. Commerce Secretary Locke has testified that the Census Bureau has “no plans” to use statistical adjustment in the 2010 Census. In compliance with federal law, will you rule out statistical adjustment under any circumstances? If not, describe a scenario that would merit adjustment. 3. Given its pattern of criminal misconduct, why is ACORN’s role as a Census Partner so essential that the integrity of the 2010 Census should be jeopardized by their involvement? 4. As Census Director, how will you communicate to Congress any program changes affecting the actual enumeration of the 2010 Census? ###
05.05.2009	“The role of the Federal Reserve has grown significantly as it is now the agency most responsible for addressing turmoil in financial markets. However, the Fed is only required to disclose a small amount of information about its activities. Given the significant consequences of its ongoing actions, greater transparency at the Federal Reserve is imperative,” stated Congressman McHenry. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that he is co-sponsoring H.R.1207, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2009. “The role of the Federal Reserve has grown significantly as it is now the agency most responsible for addressing turmoil in financial markets. However, the Fed is only required to disclose a small amount of information about its activities. Given the significant consequences of its ongoing actions, greater transparency at the Federal Reserve is imperative,” stated Congressman McHenry. The legislation eliminates restrictions on audits of the Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office and subjects the Fed’s operations to greater scrutiny. The Comptroller General would be directed to complete, before the end of 2010, an audit of the Federal Reserve System and report its finding to the Congress. Congressman Ron Paul (TX-14) is the original sponsor of HR.1207, which has broad bipartisan support including 112 co-sponsors. Congressman McHenry has been a leading proponent of transparency and disclosure on behalf of investors and taxpayers alike. He introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act and drafted a budget amendment that would have created a website detailing federal spending. Most recently, the Congressman’s guidelines for disclosures in monthly statements for mortgage loans was included in mortgage reform legislation. ###
04.28.2009	“Congresswoman Moore and I are grateful that so many Hmong have chosen to live and raise their families in our communities. Their participation and leadership in communities across this country continues to enrich America and all its citizens. The shared ideals of the Hmong and American people are a bond that will be formally recognized with this resolution,” said Rep. McHenry. share: f t Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today introduced a resolution that could eventually lead to the creation of a National Hmong Recognition Day. The resolution requests that the President issue a proclamation calling for the US government and American citizens to observe such a day. “The Lao-Hmong community’s contributions to our community and America are great and far reaching,” said Rep. Moore. “The time has come for the Lao-Hmong community to be recognized for the all the tremendous contributions it has made to our democracy and our nation. The very name Lao-Hmong means ‘free people’ and we should honor the Hmong community for their commitment to the U.S. and its ideals.” “Congresswoman Moore and I are grateful that so many Hmong have chosen to live and raise their families in our communities. Their participation and leadership in communities across this country continues to enrich America and all its citizens. The shared ideals of the Hmong and American people are a bond that will be formally recognized with this resolution,” said Rep. McHenry. The Laotian members of the Hmong tribe-- known for their warrior tradition, loyalty, and bravery—have a long history of supporting America and its military. From 1960 - 1975 the Hmong fought side by side with American soldiers against the North Vietnamese Army. In addition, over 35,000 Hmong lost their lives protecting US installations and military bases among other US interests. Furthermore, many more Hmong participated in tactical guerilla action, flew thousands of deadly combat missions, rescue missions and intelligent operations in support of the US Armed Forces during the Vietnam War. Following the Vietnam War many Hmong were singled out by the Laotian government for retribution for assisting America. As a result many Hmong fled to Thailand and the US for refuge. In America, the Hmong community has and continues to have a positive impact on local communities. From Colorado to Wisconsin numerous states and municipalities have either recognized or sought to recognize the contributions of the Hmong. “The actions taken by the Hmong for America cannot and should not be understated and the time for recognition is long overdue,” said Congresswoman Moore. “There is no way that America can repay the Hmong for the lives lost and the sacrifices made. However, we can recognize the Hmong for their sacrifices and make sure that their deeds are never forgotten.” ###
04.28.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) offered two amendments to H.R.1728, mortgage legislation considered today in the House Financial Services Committee. Congressman McHenry’s proposed rules for disclosures in monthly statements for mortgage loans were included in the original draft of the legislation. Congressman McHenry’s first amendment would help unfreeze the mortgage market to encourage more consumer lending. Those seeking to purchase a new home or refinance are unable to find access to lending in a restricted mortgage market. The Congressman’s amendment would narrow the scope and reduce the fees of loans characterized as high-cost. “The American economy continues to suffer at the hands of a frozen mortgage market. This amendment would help worthy borrowers get access to lending, which is critical to our economic recovery,” said Congressman McHenry. The Congressman’s second amendment, jointly sponsored by Congressman Scott Garrett (NJ-5), would require a study by federal banking regulators into the methods for credit risk retention. The objective would be determine how best to ensure that creditors have a meaningful economic incentive, or “skin the game,” to underwrite non-qualified mortgages in a prudent and non-predatory manner. Congressman McHenry and Democratic Congressman Al Green (TX-9) previously authored disclosure requirements for monthly statements on residential mortgage loans. These disclosure rules detailed below were included in the original draft of the legislation: Section 128 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: `(f) Periodic Statements for Residential Mortgage Loans- `(1) IN GENERAL- The creditor, assignee, or servicer with respect to any residential mortgage loan shall transmit to the obligor, for each billing cycle, a statement setting forth each of the following items, to the extent applicable, in a conspicuous and prominent manner: `(A) The amount of the principal obligation under the mortgage. `(B) The current interest rate in effect for the loan. `(C) The date on which the interest rate may next reset or adjust. `(D) The amount of any prepayment fee to be charged, if any. `(E) A description of any late payment fees. `(F) A telephone number and electronic mail address that may be used by the obligor to obtain information regarding the mortgage. `(G) Such other information as the Board may prescribe in regulations. `(2) DEVELOPMENT AND USE OF STANDARD FORM- The Federal banking agencies shall jointly develop and prescribe a standard form for the disclosure required under this subsection, taking into account that the statements required may be transmitted in writing or electronically.'. “It is clear that borrowers need to have more information regarding the details and obligations of their mortgages,” said Congressman McHenry. “These disclosure rules will make the borrowing process significantly simpler and more transparent.” ###
04.27.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the details of his annual grant-writing workshops for the fire and rescue departments in the Tenth District. Congressman McHenry’s staff and Chief Jeff Cash of the Cherryville Fire Department will provide instructions and helpful tips for writing applications for Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG). Chief Cash is an accomplished grant writer who has consulted on hundreds of winning grant applications. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is an important tool for the district’s emergency responders. The funds enable departments to purchase vehicles, personal protective equipment and other essentials that help them do their jobs and save lives. “It has been my honor to work closely with the fire and rescue services in the Tenth District and I’m committed to doing all that we can to help them get much-needed federal funds,” Congressman McHenry. The details of the grant-writing workshops are as follows: Thursday, April 30th at 7:00pm Cleveland Community College Brown Emergency Training Center Shelby, NC Monday May 4th at 7:00pm City of Lenoir Fire Department – Station #2 Lenoir, NC Thursday May 7th at 7:00pm Catawba Valley Community College Robert E. Paap Building – Room 202-A/B Hickory, NC ####
04.23.2009	“The more we learn about the government's conduct, the more troubling the story becomes. I can appreciate that the Treasury Department felt that this transaction was important because of the perceived risk Merrill’s collapse would pose to the financial system. However, that does not justify the tactics that were employed, which can only be described as bullying. As a result, shareholders were kept in the dark about the losses Bank of America was taking ownership of. A high-ranking government official threatening the employment of bank officials is not an appropriate means to closing a deal of such magnitude.” share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement today in response to the disclosure of new information regarding the federal government’s role in mediating the purchase of Merrill Lynch by Charlotte-based Bank of America. “The more we learn about the government's conduct, the more troubling the story becomes. I can appreciate that the Treasury Department felt that this transaction was important because of the perceived risk Merrill’s collapse would pose to the financial system. However, that does not justify the tactics that were employed, which can only be described as bullying. As a result, shareholders were kept in the dark about the losses Bank of America was taking ownership of. A high-ranking government official threatening the employment of bank officials is not an appropriate means to closing a deal of such magnitude.” Today’s Wall Street Journal reports on the disclosure of new details involving the government’s conduct: Wall Street Journal April 23, 2009 Lewis Testifies U.S. Urged Silence on Deal Bank of America Chief Says Bernanke, Paulson Barred Disclosure of Merrill Woes Because of Fears for Financial System By Liz Rappaport Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and then-Treasury Department chief Henry Paulson pressured Bank of America Corp. to not discuss its increasingly troubled plan to buy Merrill Lynch & Co. -- a deal that later triggered a government bailout of BofA -- according to testimony by Kenneth Lewis, the bank's chief executive. Mr. Lewis, testifying under oath before New York's attorney general in February, told prosecutors that he believed Messrs. Paulson and Bernanke were instructing him to keep silent about deepening financial difficulties at Merrill, the struggling brokerage giant. As part of his testimony, a transcript of which was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Lewis said the government wanted him to keep quiet while the two sides negotiated government funding to help BofA absorb Merrill and its huge losses. Under normal circumstances, banks must alert their shareholders of any materially significant financial hits. But these weren't normal times: Late last year, Wall Street was crumbling and BofA faced intense government pressure to buy Merrill to keep the crisis from spreading. Disclosing losses at Merrill -- which eventually totaled $15.84 billion for the fourth quarter -- could have given BofA's shareholders an opportunity to stop the deal and let Merrill collapse instead. "Isn't that something that any shareholder at Bank of America...would want to know?" Mr. Lewis was asked by a representative of New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, according to the transcript. "It wasn't up to me," Mr. Lewis said. The BofA chief said he was told by Messrs. Bernanke and Paulson that the deal needed to be completed, otherwise it would "impose a big risk to the financial system" of the U.S. as a whole. Mr. Lewis's testimony suggests how aggressively federal regulators have been willing to behave in their fight to fix the U.S. financial system. The testimony for the first time spreads some of the blame to Messrs. Paulson and Bernanke for Mr. Lewis's decision to keep problems at Merrill under wraps. "Everybody -- Lewis, Paulson, Bernanke -- eventually agreed that any public discussion of the situation at Merrill would have adverse consequences for the system," according to an individual close to BofA. A person in government familiar with Mr. Bernanke's conversations with Mr. Lewis said Wednesday that the Fed chairman didn't offer Mr. Lewis advice on the question of disclosure. Instead, Mr. Bernanke suggested Mr. Lewis consult his own counsel. Mr. Paulson repeatedly told Mr. Lewis that "the U.S. government was committed to ensuring that no systemically important financial institution would fail," according to his spokeswoman. Mr. Lewis couldn't be reached for comment. A BofA spokesman said, "We had no legal obligation to disclose ongoing negotiations with the government and disclosure of ongoing negotiations likely would have severely disrupted the global financial markets and damaged the bank." In the transcript reviewed by the Journal, Mr. Lewis didn't say he was explicitly instructed to keep silent about the losses piling up at Merrill. But his testimony indicates that he believed the government wanted him to remain silent. 'Good Part of the Hit' Mr. Cuomo's investigator asked: "Wasn't Mr. Paulson, by his instruction, really asking Bank of America shareholders to take a good part of the hit of the Merrill losses?" Mr. Lewis said, "Over the short term, yes." But he also said he believed Mr. Paulson's motive was preventing widespread disaster in the U.S. financial system. According to a person familiar with the matter, Mr. Paulson in March told Cuomo investigators that Mr. Lewis may have misinterpreted some remarks about the Treasury's disclosure obligations as referring to BofA's obligations. The transcript, which stems from an investigation into bonus payments at BofA conducted by the New York attorney general's office, illuminates the difficult dilemmas that regulators and executives alike have had to wrestle with in recent months. By keeping mum, the CEO of one of the biggest U.S. banks appeared to set aside a basic tenet of American-style finance -- that, above all, companies must disclose material information to shareholders and potential investors. "Regulators are supposed to tell you to obey the law, not to disobey the law," said Jonathan R. Macey, deputy dean of Yale Law School. "If you're the CEO, your first obligation is not to your regulator, it's to your institution and shareholders." At the same time, regulators were struggling to prevent a systemic panic. In the transcript, Mr. Lewis is quoted saying that the regulators' goal was to put everything in place for the deal to be done, "so that you didn't set off alarms in a tragic economy." Mr. Lewis's statements highlight a lack of public disclosure that has accompanied the financial crisis since its inception. The crisis has roots in the fact that Wall Street banks didn't adequately disclose the true prices of the toxic mortgage-related assets they held. The government has also been criticized for offering limited disclosure of the details or rationale of some of its bailout strategies, from the forced sale of Bear Stearns Cos., to the $173 billion injection into American International Group Inc. The testimony -- which the New York attorney general plans to release to federal regulators and overseers of bailout money and banks Thursday -- stemmed from an investigation that started when the New York attorney general began examining the circumstances surrounding $3.6 billion of bonus payments to Merrill employees just before the takeover was completed. New York prosecutors are expected to provide the testimony to several regulatory bodies, says a person familiar with the matter. The new details of Mr. Lewis's interactions with regulators over the Merrill merger coincide with the bank chief's battle to retain control of his company as it continues to struggle. The size of the Merrill losses stunned investors in January, and earlier this week Mr. Lewis gave a dim outlook for the economy, setting aside another $13.4 billion to brace for more credit losses, despite earning a first-quarter profit. Jobs at Stake The Wall Street Journal previously reported, in a page-one story on Feb. 5, that Mr. Lewis agreed to proceed with the Merrill merger only after Messrs. Paulson and Bernanke said that he and his board would lose their jobs if Bank of America backed out of the deal. Mr. Lewis's testimony with the New York attorney general's office corroborates that account. Mr. Cuomo's office says it has been unable to gather a full picture of the Fed's role in the December discussions because the Fed has invoked a regulatory privilege, allowing it to keep some documents confidential. Mr. Lewis has previously said that he first considered backing out of the Merrill deal on Dec. 13, when he said his chief financial officer told him projected after-tax losses were "about $12 billion." Shareholders of the Charlotte, N.C., bank voted to approve the purchase on Dec. 5, and the deal was completed on Jan. 1. Bank of America agreed to accept $20 billion in new capital from the government and announced the injection, in conjunction with the Merrill losses, with its regularly scheduled earnings release on Jan. 20. Mr. Lewis has since been vilified by lawmakers and shareholders for his handling of the purchase. Several investors, including TIAA-CREF, a major pension-fund manager, have said they intend to vote against his re-election as chairman. Some argued that Mr. Lewis should have informed shareholders of the potential losses at Merrill before the Jan. 1 closing of the deal. During his testimony, Mr. Lewis described a conversation with Mr. Paulson in which the Treasury secretary made it clear that Mr. Lewis's own job was at stake. Mr. Lewis still was considering invoking his legal right to terminate the Merrill deal. Mr. Paulson was out on a bike ride when Mr. Lewis phoned to discuss the matter, according to the transcript. "I can't recall if he said, 'We would remove the board and management if you called it [off]' or if he said 'we would do it if you intended to.' I don't remember which one it was," Mr. Lewis said. "I said, 'Hank, let's de-escalate this for a while. Let me talk to our board.' " —Dan Fitzpatrick and Dennis K. Berman contributed to this article. ###
04.22.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the details of the annual Congressional Art Contest for high school-aged students in the Tenth District of North Carolina. The winner of the competition will receive an annual $1,500 scholarship to attend the Savannah College of Art and Design if the winner applies and is accepted. The winning artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year as part of the exhibit entitled An Artistic Discovery. In addition, the winner will receive three round-trip tickets from Southwest Airlines to fly to Washington, D.C. for the exhibit’s ribbon cutting ceremony on June 24, 2009. All entries must be received in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory District Office at 87 Fourth Street, NW, Suite A in Hickory by Friday, May 22, 2009. All contest information along with a copy of the Student Release form is available at /ConstituentServices/artcontest.htm. The Congressman’s Regional Director, Laurie Moody, is available to answer any questions at laurie.moody@mail.house.gov or 828-327-6100. The guidelines for the competition are as follows: GENERAL GUIDELINES • The competition is open to all high school-aged students including those attending public, private and parochial schools as well as home school groups. • The airline tickets are valid from June 15 through July 15, 2009 to Baltimore Washington International Airport. • Artwork must arrive in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory District Office at 87 Fourth Street, NW, Suite A in Hickory by Friday, May 22, 2009. • In order to allow artwork to hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol, the following restrictions are enforced: o All artwork must be framed according to the stipulated framing guidelines. o Artwork must be two-dimensional. o Each piece can be no larger than 30”x30”x4” (30 inches high, 30 inches wide, and 4 inches deep) including the outside dimensions of the frame. o Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs. o Each entry must be original in concept, design, and execution and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Any entry which has been reproduced from an existing photo (not the student’s own), painting, graphic, advertisement, or any other work produced by another person is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. • Artwork will hang in the Capitol for the entire year of the exhibition and cannot be returned to students earlier. Students should not submit artwork they will need for other purposes. • Artwork categories are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage: must be two dimensional o Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, etc. o Computer generated art o Photography • A TYPED copy of the Student Release form, signed by both the teacher and the student, must be attached to the artwork to certify the originality of the piece. The final decision regarding the suitability of all artwork for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition exhibition in the Capitol will be made by a panel of qualified persons chaired by the Architect of the Capitol. Artwork must adhere to the policy of the House Office Building Commission. In accordance with this policy, exhibits depicting subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature are not allowed. It is necessary that all artwork be reviewed by the panel chaired by the Architect of the Capitol and any portion not in consonance with the Commission’s policy will be excluded from the exhibit. FRAMING GUIDELINES • All artwork must be framed. Frames should be kept as simple and sturdy as possible. Metal frames are recommended. No “snap on” frames with glass are to be used. • All artwork must be protected by Plexiglas or glass. Plexiglas is preferred. • All works, including frame¸ should be no larger than 30 inches high, 30 inches wide, and 4 inches deep, and 15 lbs in weight. This includes the outside dimensions of the frame. • Matting can enhance or detract from a work of art and should be carefully prepared. • Use sturdy picture hangers on the back of the frame. Two sturdy eye hooks should be attached at the right and the left sides of the back of the work for hanging in order to prevent the work from leaning forward or hanging unevenly. Do not put wire between the hooks for hanging, this will be added when the artwork is hung in the Capitol. • Do not attach labels, ribbon, etc. to the front of the piece or underneath the glass or Plexiglas. • If the artwork is abstract in design, please indicate on the back side which side is “up” with arrows. ####
04.20.2009	"Although these cuts are too miniscule to be considered anything more than symbolic, at least it’s a step in the right direction...As the national debt continues to spiral out of control, I hope President Obama will work in a bipartisan way to reform the careless way in which Washington spends tax dollars." share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s call for $100 million in administration budget cuts. These savings would amount to a reduction of 0.002% in the federal budget. “I am encouraged that President Obama has finally recognized the need for fiscal discipline. The first three months of his administration have been defined by boundless government spending. In doing so, the President broke his often-repeated campaign promise to go “line by line” to identify savings in the federal budget. Although these cuts are too miniscule to be considered anything more than symbolic, at least it’s a step in the right direction. In fact, we could have saved three times that much by not buying a new fleet of cars for government employees in the so-called stimulus bill. As the national debt continues to spiral out of control, I hope President Obama will work in a bipartisan way to reform the careless way in which Washington spends tax dollars.” ###
04.02.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, released the following the statement in response to President Obama’s forthcoming nomination of Robert Groves to be Director of the U.S. Census Bureau share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, released the following the statement in response to President Obama’s forthcoming nomination of Robert Groves to be Director of the U.S. Census Bureau “The fight to protect the accuracy and independence of the 2010 Census has just begun. With the nomination of Robert Groves, President Obama has made clear that he intends to employ the political manipulation of census data for partisan gain. Mr. Groves is a leading advocate for partisan data manipulation. In fact, his efforts to tamper with census results in 1990 are well-documented and were rightly rejected. “This represents a reversal of recent White House assurances that it would not exercise political influence over the census. This move will force Commerce Secretary Locke to contradict his sworn testimony during his confirmation hearing. Secretary Locke made clear that the political manipulation of census results, or “statistical adjustment”, would not be used in the 2010 Census. This alone should be enough for the U.S. Senate to prevent the confirmation of Mr. Groves. “The partisan adjustment of census data produces a false count that does not address the undercount. Furthermore, it is both unconstitutional and prohibited by federal law. The census is far too important to become a tool to wield political power. In order to uphold the law and protect the credibility of our country’s entire statistical system, we will take any and all action necessary to preserve the 219-year tradition of an accurate and independent census.” ###
04.02.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.Con.Res. 85, the House Democrat Budget. “I disagree with the basic premise of the Democrats’ budget plan – which is to tax more, spend more, and borrow more. Their budget raises taxes on all Americans by $1.4 trillion dollars, the largest increase in history. Raising taxes on small businesses and working families will only deepen and prolong the pain of this recession. “Believing that government can simply spend its way out of this recession is dangerously simplistic and misguided. This budget compiles a national debt larger than the total amount of debt accumulated by the federal government from 1789 to today. Paying it off will require major tax increases, the likes of which we’ve never seen before in this country. No Democrat has yet explained what happens when China decides to stop bankrolling our debt as it is threatening to do. The consequences would be catastrophic. “I believe we should cut, save, and incentivize economic growth. That’s why I voted for an alternative budget that holds the line on discretionary spending and prioritizes investment in projects that truly stimulate economic growth. That balanced budget did not raise taxes or cut veterans health care and defense programs. “We must provide tax relief to help working families weather the storm and offer tax incentives for small businesses to hire new workers. Job creation and economic growth, not deficit spending, will restore prosperity for all Americans.” ###
03.31.2009	Today, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has honored the Congressman with its Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress. “Last year in particular, Congress had to make some tough choices, and Patrick McHenry clearly demonstrated his commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Congressman McHenry with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.” Eligibility for the award is based on how members of Congress vote on key issues affecting economic growth. Congressman McHenry scored a 78% rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds an 84% ranking during his tenure in Congress. “These are difficult times that require policies from Washington that will help spur economic growth. It is foolish to think that we can simply tax, spend and borrow our way back to prosperity. We must harness the ingenuity of entrepreneurs and small businesses to create jobs and begin rebuilding the economy of Western North Carolina,” stated Congressman McHenry. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region. More than 96% of U.S. Chamber members are small businesses with 100 employees or fewer. ###
03.27.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the awarding of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $80,185 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Frank Volunteer Fire Department in Avery County, and comes in the twenty-eighth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which helps firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. According to Paul Buchanan, former Frank VFD Chief, the grant funds will be used to purchase new turnout gear and air packs for the entire department along with other firefighting equipment. “We worked very hard on this grant and are very grateful to hear our department has been approved,” commented Buchanan. “We certainly thank Congressman McHenry for all of his work on behalf of our department and fire departments throughout the Tenth District.” “This is Frank VFD’s first AFG Grant and it is always good to see a deserving department’s efforts rewarded,” stated Congressman McHenry. “This speaks to the professionalism of Frank’s volunteers and the persuasiveness of the department’s application.” Frank VFD is the second Avery County fire department to receive AFG funding in this year’s cycle, following the Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department which was funded in the sixteenth round. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $1,596,634 has been awarded in twenty-four grants to twenty-two departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
03.25.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) today offered two amendments to the federal budget proposed by President Barack Obama. Congressman McHenry is a member of the House Budget Committee, which held a markup hearing today where amendments to the budget were considered. Congressman McHenry’s first amendment would create an official website where the American people would be able to review the federal budget and all government spending in its entirety. The website would empower taxpayers to decide for themselves what they consider to be wasteful government spending. In one of his first official acts, President Obama signed a Memorandum of Transparency and Open Government that reads, “We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration. Openness will strengthen our democracy and promote efficiency and effectiveness in Government.” “This amendment represents a significant step toward greater openness, accountability and public participation in American government. These traits are the very essence of democracy. And as they say, sunshine is the best disinfectant,” said Congressman McHenry. The second amendment would increase funding for veterans programs by redirecting arts funding in the economic stimulus bill. Congressman McHenry’s measure would provide an additional $50 million which could be used to fund as many as 33 new Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC). The Hickory, NC-based CBOC has been successful at providing health care services close to home for local veterans. Congressman McHenry argued that every veteran in this country should have access to the same quality health care. “Our nation carries a solemn obligation to provide our veterans with the respect and care they have earned defending our freedom. With their ranks growing at a rapid pace, this Congress must increase its investment in our veterans,” stated Congressman McHenry. ###
03.19.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, commended Commerce Secretary-designee Governor Gary Locke today for his support of an apolitical and accurate census. In sworn testimony yesterday before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, Governor Locke declared that the integrity of the 2010 Decennial Census would be protected from the political manipulation of census results. Media reports confirm that Locke “ruled out statistical sampling,” saying “no statistical modeling would be used.” Locke’s sworn declaration seemingly ensures that the 2010 Decennial Census will be an actual enumeration of all individuals living in the United States as clearly mandated by the U.S. Constitution. “It is now clear that any effort by the White House and its political allies to manipulate census data for partisan advantage will be in direct opposition to its own Commerce Secretary, Census Bureau civil servants, and our Constitution,” said Congressman McHenry. ###
03.19.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 1586. “This is shameless Washington hypocrisy at its worst. President Obama and the Democrats were for AIG bonuses before they were against them. The Administration and their Democrat allies stripped an amendment from the stimulus bill that would have prevented these bonuses. “With Republicans and the public expressing outrage at their actions, the Democrats are now scrambling for political cover. They will find no such cover because their knee-jerk legislation allows AIG executives to keep a portion of their taxpayer-funded bonuses. Yesterday, the Democrats defeated Republican efforts to pass legislation that ordered the Administration to recoup 100% of the bonuses and deny AIG any further federal assistance until every penny is repaid to taxpayers. “This whole episode is precisely why I voted against the taxpayer-funded bailouts of financial institutions. The blame for these bonuses rests solely with the Bush and Obama Administrations and those who march in lock step with their irresponsible policies.” ###
03.16.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, offered five questions today to be asked of Commerce Secretary-nominee Governor Gary Locke at his Senate confirmation hearing on Wednesday, March 18th. Questions regarding the conduct of the 2010 Decennial Census led to Senator Judd Gregg withdrawing his name from consideration for Commerce Secretary. The controversy surrounding the census has centered on two points of contention. The first is the Obama Administration’s desire to exert political pressure over the Census Bureau by moving it from the Commerce Department into the White House. Secondly, despite being prohibited by federal law, the prerogative of some partisans to manipulate census data threatens the reliability of the country’s statistical system. Governor Locke has signaled his support for data adjustment “as an accuracy check.” Congressman McHenry encouraged Members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation to ask the following five questions of Governor Locke. 1. What is your definition of inappropriate political interference by the White House regarding the 2010 Decennial Census? 2. How would you respond to White House attempts to exert political influence over the conduct of the census? 3. The Census Bureau expects to hire and train 1.2 million temporary workers to conduct non-response follow-up with about 47 million households over the course of 10 weeks in 2010. How do you plan to minimize fraud and tampering of data during street-level canvassing operations? 4. Do you believe the Census Bureau’s primary goal of the 2010 Decennial Census should be to count every person, once, only once, and at the right place? 5. Will you direct the Census Bureau to produce a two-number census – one that is an actual enumeration and one that uses statistical adjustment – and if so, will you release the adjusted figure for legislative redistricting or the allocation of federal funds? ###
03.11.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act. Congressman McHenry is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. Also today, Mary Schapiro, the newly-confirmed Chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), addressed the need for reform in the credit rating market. “Bringing greater transparency to the credit rating market is a good first step that we can all agree on. I certainly hope that Chairwoman Schapiro will lend her support to this important legislation,” said Congressman McHenry. As mortgage products were packaged and sold as securities during the boom in the housing market, the credit rating industry consistently gave undeservedly-high ratings to many of these securities. Now, there is wide agreement that the credit rating agencies need to institute reforms to their business practices. “The housing market meltdown exposed dangerous weaknesses in the credit rating industry. This bill will give investors crucial information they need to make sound financial decisions," said Congressman McHenry. Congressman McHenry’s Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act would require nationally-recognized credit rating agencies to provide additional disclosures with respect to the rating of structured securities. Specifically the bill will do the following: • Ensure that issuers and originators are providing credit rating agencies with adequate information on the assets underlying a structured security. • Require credit rating agencies to institute procedures for getting data from issuers and originators concerning the procedures employed to attest to the data’s veracity and the fraud detection capabilities surrounding the process. • Require credit rating agencies to disclose in a central database the historical default rates of all classes of financial products they have rated. With the enactment of this legislation, investors would have greater confidence in the quality of structured security ratings, resulting in a healthier market for consumers. ###
03.10.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) announced today that he is an original co-sponsor of the Secret Ballot Protection Act. The legislation codifies into federal law an American worker’s right to a secret ballot election when deciding whether to unionize in the workplace. “The secret ballot is a fundamental right in our democracy. Members of Congress use a secret ballot to vote for their leadership. American workers deserve the exact same right,” stated Congressman McHenry. The Secret Ballot Protection Act stands in direct contrast to “card check” legislation, which strips workers of their right to a secret ballot election. Union organizers would only have to get signatures on a card from a majority of a business’ employees to form a union. Former Democrat Senator George McGovern, 1972 Democrat presidential nominee and self-described friend of labor unions, opposes card check because of “many documented cases where workers have been pressured, harassed, tricked and intimated into signing cards that have led to mandatory payment of dues.” The Secret Ballot Protection Act would also protect American workers from being coerced or pressured into joining a union. A recent economic study regarding the effects of card check legislation found that 600,000 American jobs would be lost the year following its enactment. ###
03.06.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 1106. “I opposed this legislation because it will prolong and deepen the housing crisis by raising interest rates, freezing consumer credit, and driving down home values. With the promise of reduced mortgage payments subsidized by taxpayers, the bill encourages foreclosures. Over 90% of homeowners are working hard, tightening their belts, and making their mortgage payments on time. They should not be forced to bail out irresponsible mortgage lenders and borrowers. In Washington, the answer to every problem is to spend tax dollars that the government does not have and leave the bill for future generations to pay.” ###
03.05.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, released the following statement in response to news reports regarding Commerce Secretary-designee Governor Gary Locke’s views on the 2010 Decennial Census. “I am encouraged by Governor Locke’s desire for a Census Bureau free of political pressure from the White House. One down and two to go. Now, we await word from President Obama that he accepts Governor Locke’s wishes and will restore control of the census to the Department of Commerce. Following that, the next Census Director must also state his opinion on a non-partisan and accurate census. “Based on news reports, Governor Locke expressed his intention to employ statistical sampling as an “accuracy check.” I am certain that during the Governor’s confirmation hearing he will clarify what exactly that means. What it must not mean is that sampling will be used in any way to manipulate census data for partisan gain.” ###
02.26.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives sent the letter below to President Obama’s nominee for Secretary of Commerce. In anticipation of former Washington Governor Gary Locke’s confirmation hearing, Congressman McHenry asks, “Do you intend to comply with the partisan ambitions of the President or to fulfill your constitutional obligation as Secretary of Commerce and oversee a fair and accurate 2010 Decennial Census?” February 26, 2009 Governor Gary Locke c/o: The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Governor Locke, Management of the 2010 Decennial Census will be an important responsibility for the next Secretary of Commerce. Last year, seven former Directors of the U.S. Census Bureau, appointed by Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, G.H.W. Bush, Clinton, and G.W. Bush wrote, “it is vitally important that the American public have confidence that the census results have been produced by an independent, non-partisan, apolitical, and scientific Census Bureau.” As the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives, I am interested to know your view on the Obama Administration’s plan to circumvent the authority of the Secretary of Commerce and place the traditionally non-partisan census under White House influence. Senator Judd Gregg, in a letter withdrawing his name from consideration for Secretary of Commerce, cited his refusal to compromise on this matter. Do you intend to comply with the partisan ambitions of the President or to fulfill your constitutional obligation as Secretary of Commerce and oversee a fair and accurate 2010 Decennial Census? It is the responsibility of the Census Bureau to physically count every person in the United States. However, there are partisans who advocate statistical “adjustment” or extrapolation over precise counting. This method is rightly outlawed by the 1980 Census Act, in part because it inherently compromises the integrity of census data and makes it vulnerable to political manipulation. Will it be your objective to count every person or to employ statistical adjustment? As you look forward to your confirmation hearing, I urge you to consider these vital concerns regarding the operation of the Census Bureau and its conduct of the census. My colleagues and I, in the House of Representatives, stand willing and ready to work with you to provide a full, accurate, and apolitical 2010 Decennial Census count. Regards, Congressman Patrick McHenry Ranking Member, House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives CC: Senator John D. Rockefeller, IV, Chairman, Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, & Transportation Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Ranking Member ###
02.25.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding H.R. 1105, the fiscal year 2009 omnibus appropriations bill. “Last evening, we heard President Obama talk about the need to “make the hard choices to bring down the debt.” The President seemingly understands that a $2 trillion federal deficit will prolong and deepen the economic crisis. “On the heels of the so-called $787 billion stimulus bill, the Democrat majority in Congress has not made the tough choices necessary, but are increasing discretionary spending at its highest rate since the Carter Administration. Worse, the omnibus spending bill includes 8,696 earmarks to fund the pet projects of politicians at a cost of $11 billion. This is money that taxpayers do not have and cannot afford. “The Democrat majority refuses to heed the advice of their President and countless economists who warn against such gluttonous use of the public purse. Unless they stop spending as though we’re playing with Monopoly money, taxpayers will be left with catastrophic inflation and tax increases like we’ve never seen before in this country.” ###
02.24.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s address this evening to a joint session of Congress. “I am encouraged by what I heard tonight from the President. He rightly criticized “short-term gains” at the expense of “long-term prosperity.” This was my primary concern with the stimulus bill produced by Congressional Democrats – too much expensive pork and not enough real stimulus. “I stand ready to work with President Obama to “make the hard choices to bring down the debt,” as he put it. The President told inspiring stories of ordinary Americans who are making hard choices. We should follow their lead together – and if we do, we can win fiscal responsibility for taxpayers and build a stronger economy. “The President can start by vetoing the Democrat majority’s large increase in discretionary government spending, the biggest since the Carter Administration. It didn’t help matters then, so why should we expect any different now? The way to build “a new foundation of lasting prosperity” is not to continue spending lavishly on things that do not help Americans weather the storm or stimulate economic growth. Taxpayers simply cannot afford it. A $2 trillion debt is not a means to lasting economic prosperity.” ###
02.18.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced two U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants totaling $563,550 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to the Town of Mooresville Fire Department in Iredell County and are administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The first grant for $325,140 is a Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant which assists local fire departments in increasing their staffing and deployment capabilities in order to respond to emergencies whenever they may occur. The second grant for $238,410 comes through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. According to Mooresville Fire Chief Wes Greene, the SAFER Grant funds will be used to hire three new career firefighters and the AFG Grant will upgrade the Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) for the entire department. “These funds could not come at a better time,” commented Chief Greene. “Mooresville is a growing city and the costs of providing fire protection in today’s economy are continuously rising. This will be a big help.” Mooresville is no stranger to AFG Grants. This is the department’s fourth straight year receiving the grant. However, this is the first time the department has been awarded a SAFER Grant. It is extremely rare to receive both types of grants in the same funding cycle. “This speaks to the strength of the department’s applications and the professionalism of Chief Green and his staff,” stated Congressman McHenry. “I have visited the Mooresville Fire Department on several occasions. I enjoyed their annual shrimp and oyster stew after the Christmas parade in 2007 and I look forward to returning to present checks for these grants.” Mooresville Mayor Bill Thunberg was grateful for the funds, “This is great news for the Town of Mooresville and our taxpayers. I want to thank Congressman McHenry for his steadfast support of our community and what he does for us in Washington.” ###
02.18.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry has been named the Republican Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee with direct oversight of the 2010 United States Census. As Ranking Member, Congressman McHenry is the leader of the minority party on the subcommittee. The Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census, and National Archives also has jurisdiction over public information and records laws such as the Freedom of Information Act, the Presidential Records Act, and the Federal Advisory Committee Act, and the National Archives and Records Administration. “I look forward to fulfilling our constitutional obligation for a full and accurate census. Any effort to politicize the census or manipulate the data collected must be defeated,” stated Congressman McHenry. The Obama Administration recently announced plans to effectively move control of the U.S. Census Bureau from the U.S. Department of Commerce into the White House. Under this plan, the President would grant his Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel the authority to manage the census. Congressman McHenry has led the opposition to what many see as a blatant attempt by President Obama to seek a partisan advantage with the census. Below please find an opinion editorial authored by Congressman McHenry and Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) regarding this issue. Census Should Be Fair, Independent and Free from Politics By Reps. Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and Darrell Issa (CA-49) The Obama Administration’s recent actions regarding the Census are outrageous and unprecedented. Commanding the Census Director to report directly to the White House is a naked political power grab and transparently partisan. There is only one possible reason for it – political interference in the 2010 Census and partisan manipulation of the results. This ill-conceived proposal undermines a constitutionally-obligated process that speaks to the very heart of our democracy. While there are unanswered questions about the legality of such a move, there is no question as to the motives. Under this plan, the President would grant his Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel the authority to manage the census. Consider that in a 2006 article in USA Today highlighted his thoughts on the 2010 Census and subsequent redistricting, Mr. Emanuel stated, “If you think redistricting is always partisan and political, which it is…it’s going to be on steroids this time.” Surely, President Obama recognizes the need to leave the census in the hands of those who understand its importance beyond political gerrymandering. The need for an independent Census Bureau is recognized by Republicans and Democrats alike – and every living former Census Director is on record supporting an independent Census Bureau. President Obama’s calls for bipartisanship are severely damaged when reports indicate he is maneuvering to stab Republicans in the back through a national gerrymander orchestrated directly by the White House. In short, this power grab completely jeopardizes and undermines the President’s mandate of “post-partisanship.” The 2010 Census is a huge undertaking – the largest peacetime mobilization the country has ever seen – and its results will determine the Congressional makeup for the next decade. Both governments and businesses rely on accurate census data to make critical decisions about how to spend resources. Already, troubling signs of a politicized census are emerging. We were disappointed to see that there are some on the other side of the aisle who are resorting to inflammatory and counterproductive rhetoric. We all share the goal of ensuring that every individual in America, regardless of race or socioeconomic status or any other characteristic, will be counted. Fully, fairly counted. However, we were greatly encouraged by Census Subcommittee Chairman William Lacy Clay’s statement that his objective is “to count every American.” Partisanship has motivated others in his party to suggest that some form of statistical “adjustment” or extrapolation should be used. This would open the door to the political manipulation of census data. If your objective for the census is accuracy, then you want to count. If your objective is a redistricting advantage, then you want to employ statistical sampling models. Anyone familiar with public opinion polling can tell you that statistical sampling carries a margin of error. And error is the enemy of a full and accurate census. The manipulation of census data is prohibited by federal law. In a case stemming from the 2000 Decennial Census, the U.S. Supreme Court held that the adjustment of census data violates the 1980 Census Act. If the Obama Administration or Congressional Democrats were to seek the authority to use statistical sampling for census data, they would undoubtedly encounter a long, bruising, and ultimately losing legal battle. Working with our Democrat counterparts, we will develop a comprehensive strategy that leaves no justification for unconstitutional tactics. A component of that strategy must be to dramatically improve the engagement of local community organizations and church groups. We will offer approaches that increase the frequency and effectiveness of traditional outreach efforts such as phone calls, direct mail, and door-to-door. All ideas brought before the Subcommittee will be fully considered. We are confident that together we can formulate a plan that ensures a full and accurate count. The only thing that threatens this effort is the injection of Chicago-style politics into the Census process. Last year, seven former Directors of the U.S. Census Bureau, appointed by Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, G.H.W. Bush, Clinton, and G.W. Bush, wrote, “…it is vitally important that the American public have confidence that the census results have been produced by an independent, non-partisan, apolitical, and scientific Census Bureau.” We urge President Obama to heed their advice and keep the census process fair, independent and free from politics. Congressman McHenry is Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the census and Congressman Issa is the Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. ###
02.13.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against the conference report of H.R. 1. “Behind closed doors, House and Senate Democrats secretly negotiated a bill that has fewer tax cuts for small business, less tax relief for working families, and more wasteful spending. As for jobs, the Democrats’ bill spends $263,000 for every job created. By contrast, the House Republican Stimulus Plan creates twice as many jobs at half the cost to taxpayers. That's because it focuses entirely on stimulating the economy, not funding the pet projects of politicians. Middle class families will now receive a mere $1.10 in tax relief per day for just two years. Meanwhile, the bill increases the tax burden to $9,900 for every American family. Less than 3% of the bill is devoted to job-creating tax cuts for small businesses. Investment in road and bridge projects was cut down to less than 4% of the total spending. And yet, the bill wastes billions of tax dollars on non-stimulus projects, including green golf carts, urban canal inspection, removal of fish barriers, the National Endowment for the Arts, the voter-fraud group ACORN, and an experimental levitating train between Disneyland and Las Vegas. The Democrats must stop pretending that we can keep printing taxpayer money without bankrupting the long-term economic security of our country. In these tough times, the citizens of Western North Carolina need and deserve a real economic stimulus bill. Instead, the Democrats have chosen to pass the largest government spending bill in the history of our country, leaving taxpayers to pay the check.” ###
02.12.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Ranking Member of the subcommittee with oversight of the U.S. Census, released the following statement in response to Senator Judd Gregg withdrawing his name from consideration to be Commerce Secretary over the brewing census controversy. “President Obama’s reckless actions have now cost him an able and respected cabinet secretary. Is the President still willing to pursue his unprecedented power grab over the census now that he has seen the consequences? Senator Gregg is to be commended for his unwillingness to compromise his principles for the sake of political ascension. I hope the President is inspired by the courage of Senator Gregg’s convictions. I know I am.” ###
02.03.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the awarding of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $217,500 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Cliffside Area Volunteer Fire Department in Rutherford County, and comes in the ninth round of this year’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant awards. SAFER Grants assist local fire departments to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities in order to better respond to emergencies situations. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. This is the second Homeland Security fire grant that Cliffside Area VFD has received in this year’s funding cycle. On July 2nd of last year, the department received an operations and equipment grant under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program for $81,852. While departments may apply for both grant programs in the same funding cycle, it is rare for two grants to be funded in the same year. “This speaks to the strength of their applications,” said Congressman McHenry. The Congressman continued, “I look forward to returning to Cliffside to make a formal presentation for this grant and the grant they received in July. Both are well deserved for a department that serves its community with professionalism and dedication.” According to Jimmy Mason, Cliffside VFD Treasurer, the funds will be used to start a reimbursement program to pay volunteers a stipend for each fire call run helping to defray the cost of gas and other costs incurred out of the volunteers’ own expenses. “With the rising costs of gas last year along with training and equipment costs, being a volunteer firefighter is requiring more and more money,” commented Congressman McHenry. “This program will ultimately serve as a recruitment tool for new volunteers and will help to enable those who are already active volunteers to continue serving at less personal cost.” “Having a strong and growing group of volunteers is important for this community,” commented Mason. “This program this grant helps establish will be an enormous recruitment tool for us.” ###
02.02.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $81,225 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Bandy’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the twenty-first round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. Bandy’s Crossroads is the second Catawba County fire department to receive AFG funding in this year’s cycle, following Long View Fire Department which was funded in Round 15. The grant funds will go towards purchasing vital fire and rescue equipment. “This is the second AFG Grant that Bandy’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department has received in the last three funding cycles,” stated Congressman McHenry. “I was happy to visit Bandy’s Crossroads in 2006 to present a check for the grant the department received that year and I congratulate them on another impressive application.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $1,090,199 has been awarded to eighteen departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
01.28.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 1, the House Democrat Stimulus Bill. “With Western North Carolina families hurting and workers losing their jobs, it’s clear that we are facing an economic crisis. Action is needed to stimulate our economy and create jobs. Unfortunately, the Democrat majority has rejected calls from President Obama and House Republicans to work in an open and bipartisan way to craft an effective stimulus bill. Instead, the Democrats are using this crisis to fund wasteful pork barrel spending projects. “The Democrats’ bill spends billions of tax dollars on things that have nothing to do with economic stimulus including the National Endowment for the Arts, new cars for government workers, and ACORN, the left-wing political group under federal investigation. To put it in perspective, $816 billion is enough to give every North Carolina resident $101,000. And yet, unlike the Senate version, there is no funding for the Trade Adjustment Assistance program that is critical to the economic recovery of Western North Carolina. “The bill’s wasteful spending unfairly diminishes some of its worthy projects like the deployment of broadband infrastructure, which will create jobs in Western North Carolina and across the country. Over half of the $816 billion will be spent between 2011 and 2019, after the economy is expected to recover. To truly stimulate our economy and create jobs, we should provide tax relief to small businesses and working families and fund targeted federal investments in infrastructure. Finally, this legislation will have disastrous effects on America’s long-term economic security and lead to massive tax increases on the working families of Western North Carolina." ###
01.26.2009	New House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (VA-7) has named Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) to be a Deputy Republican Whip for the 111th Congress. “I’m pleased that Congressman McHenry has agreed to remain a part of the Republican Whip Team. With determined leaders like Patrick McHenry, the Whip Team will act as the cornerstone of House Republican efforts to preserve, protect and create a better tomorrow for working families,” said Congressman Eric Cantor, the Republican Whip. The role of a Deputy Whip is to assist the House Republican leadership in managing its legislative priorities on the House floor. Congressman McHenry served in the same capacity in the 110th Congress under then-House Republican Whip Roy Blunt. “The Democratic majority is ideologically-driven to address every problem with a tax, borrow, and spend philosophy that is burying generations of working families in debt and driving the economy deeper into recession. It has never been more important for House Republicans to defend American taxpayers from the expensive whims of the least popular Congress in history,” said Congressman McHenry. ###
01.22.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of H.J.Res. 3, the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Disapproval Resolution. “Even its proponents concede that the TARP program has been a failure. In his confirmation hearing yesterday, Treasury Secretary nominee Timothy Geithner acknowledged, ‘there are serious concerns about transparency and accountability…confusion about the goals of the program, and deep skepticism about whether we are using the taxpayers’ money wisely.’ When opposing the establishment of the program last year, I argued that the legislation amounted to little more than giving the Treasury a blank check. Having acted in haste, Congress failed to impose stringent transparency and accountability safeguards. To make matters worse, today’s Wall Street Journal notes: ‘Bankers, regulators and politicians complain of a secretive and opaque process for deciding which banks get cash.’ What is clear is that the TARP program has failed to stabilize the financial system, failed to restore investor confidence, and failed to benefit ordinary Americans. The Democratic majority believes that one failure deserve another. I believe that American taxpayers can not afford to spend another $350 billion to rescue a failed rescue program.” ###
01.21.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $93,819 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Hugh’s Pond Volunteer Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the twentieth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is the second grant that Hugh’s Pond VFD has received in this year’s AFG cycle. On December 10th of last year, the department received an operations and equipment grant for $35,268. While departments may apply for both equipment and vehicles in the same funding cycle, it is rare for two grants to be funded in the same year. “This is a testament to the strength of their applications,” said Congressman McHenry. This also marks Hugh’s Pond VFD’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant and its third in the last four years. According to Douglas Mabry, Board of Directors President for the department, the funds will be used to purchase a new Brush Truck. “That is of vital importance to us given the large rural area we protect,” commented Mabry. “This is great news for a department that covers not only northwest Gaston County but also serves as a primary mutual-aid responder for southern Lincoln County,” stated Congressman McHenry. “I look forward to returning to Hugh’s Pond to make a formal presentation for this grant and the grant they received in December. Both are well deserved for a department that serves its community with professionalism and dedication.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $1,008,974 has been awarded to departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
01.14.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 2. “It is truly unfortunate that Congressional Democrats have chosen to play politics with children’s health care. I support the Republican-established SCHIP program and have previously voted to reauthorize and fund the program. My disagreements with this particular bill are two-fold. First, the legislation eliminates the requirement that 95% of poor children be covered before the program is expanded to higher-income individuals. This program must fulfill its mission to provide health care to poor children as opposed to advancing a partisan agenda for government-run health care. Second, the legislation imposes a 156% increase in taxes on tobacco. The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service calls this “one of the most regressive” taxes that disproportionately hurts lower-income Americans. By putting politics ahead of poor children’s health care, this bill represents everything that is wrong with Washington.” ###
01.13.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that East Lincoln County resident Lieutenant General Thomas C. Waskow, United States Air Force (Ret.) has joined the Congressman’s Military Advisory Committee. Lt. Gen. Waskow graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1970. During the Vietnam War, he was assigned as a forward air controller at Ban Me Thout and Tan San Nhut where he flew 282 combat missions over South Vietnam and Cambodia. Lt. Gen. Waskow previously served as a Director of Air Space Operations, Headquarters Pacific Air Forces. On September 11, 2001, he was designated as Area Air Defense Commander for the Hawaii Air Defense Region and was responsible for the air sovereignty of the state of Hawaii. The general contributed extensively to contingency operations Deny Flight and Silver Wake in the Balkans, Noble Eagle in Hawaii in 2001, and Unified Assistance in Japan in 2005. Prior to retiring in 2005, Lt. Gen. Waskow was the senior U.S. military representative in Japan, serving as Commander, U.S. Forces Japan, and Commander, 5th Air Force, Yokota Air Base. “In these dangerous times, I am privileged to receive the advice and counsel of an American hero like Lt. General Waskow. Tom’s proud service to his country is never-ending,” stated Congressman McHenry. As a member of the Military Advisory Committee, Lt. Gen. will advise Congressman McHenry on issues relating to military affairs and national security. ###
01.12.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has made changes to Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) qualifications, program payment limitations, and direct attribution for Farm Service Agency (FSA) and Natural Conservation Service (NRCS) programs authorized in the 2008 Farm Bill. USDA has modified the definition of “actively engaged in farming” with regard to eligibility for agriculture assistance programs. To be “actively engaged in farming,” an individual or entity must make and provide material proof of significant contributions to the farming operation of: (1) capital, equipment, land, or a combination; and (2) personal labor or active personal management, or a combination. Congressman McHenry and several of his colleagues recently sent a letter to the USDA expressing concern for the impact these changes might have on family- and community-run operations that include many members who may all file for federal aid separately. For commodity and disaster programs, the AGI limitation was reduced from $2.6 million AGI from all sources to a three-year average non-farm AGI of $500,000. As mandated, the USDA will accept public comments on these changes as well as the redefinition of “actively engaged” until January 28, 2009. Comments may be submitted by email to Salomon.Ramirez@wdc.usda.gov or by mail to: Salomon Ramirez Director, PECD, FSA USDA Stop 0517, Room 4752 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20250 The enrollment for the 2009 Direct and Counter-cyclical Payment (DCP) Program has begun and will continue until June 1, 2009. Producers can apply online at http://www.fas.usda.gov/dcp or by calling their local USDA Service Center listed below. The enrollment for the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program has begun and will continue through the program’s expiration date, September 30, 2012. Producers can apply by contacting their local Farm Service Agency office listed below. For further information on all changes, producers can contact their local USDA Service Centers. Avery County: FSA Farm Loan Office for Appraiser 140 Cranberry Street Newland, NC 28657 (828) 733-7010 USDA Spruce Pine Service Center 11943 S. 226 Highway Spruce Pine, NC 28777 (828) 765-0889 ext 2 Burke & Caldwell Counties: Burke County Farm Service Agency & USDA Morganton Service Center 130 Ammons Drive Morganton, NC 28655 (828) 439-9727 ext 2 Catawba County: Catawba County Farm Service Agency & USDA Newton Service Center 1175 S. Brady Avenue Newton, NC 28658 (828) 464-1382 ext 2 Cleveland County: Cleveland County Farm Service Agency & USDA Shelby Service Center 844 Wallace Grove Drive Shelby, NC 28150 (704) 471-0235 ext 2 Gaston & Lincoln Counties: Gaston County Farm Service Agency & USDA Dallas Service Center 1303 Dallas Cherryville Highway Dallas, NC 28034 (704) 922-3806 Iredell County: Iredell County Farm Service Agency & USDA Statesville Service Center 444 Bristol Drive Statesville, NC 28677 FSA: (704) 872-5061 USDA: (704) 873-7242 ext 2 Mitchell County: Mitchell County Farm Service Agency & USDA Spruce Pine Service Center 11943 S. 226 Highway Spruce Pine, NC 28777 FSA: (828) 765-5049 ext 2 USDA: (828) 765-0889 ext 2 Rutherford County: Rutherford County Farm Service Agency & USDA Rutherfordton Service Center 121 Laurel Drive Rutherfordton, NC 28139 (828) 287-4220 ###
01.12.2009	US Representative Sue Myrick (NC-09) and US Representative Patrick McHenry (NC-10) today announced that Reinvestment in Communities of Gaston County, Inc. has received a grant from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under the Section 811 program. The grant, totaling $1,330,500, will be used to develop the Redbud Apartments into eight units for low-income persons who are disabled by chronic mental illness. Each of the eight units includes a living and dining area, kitchen, bedroom and bathroom. Ground-level units will be handicap accessible and a ninth two-bedroom unit will be included for a resident project manager. “I’m proud that this grant funding is being used in our district to help people suffering from mental illness find safe and affordable housing,” said Rep. Myrick. “Surely one of the first steps toward recovery from mental illness is the ability to find a stable place to live, and I’m grateful for the efforts made in Gaston County to assist these individuals in getting back on their feet.” The grant is part of HUD’s Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program, which provides funding to nonprofit organizations to develop rental properties for very low income adults with disabilities. “Now more than ever, Gaston County needs federal investments in economic development projects that directly benefit those most in need of our help," said Rep. McHenry (NC-10). Patrick McHenry also represents Gaston County. “These grants will help thousands of our nation’s very low-income elderly and persons with disabilities find decent housing that they can afford,” said HUD Secretary Steve Preston. “Neither group should ever have to worry about being able to find a safe place to live.” ###
01.09.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced $109,715 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to local fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to Icard Township Fire & Rescue, Inc. in the amount of $45,395 and to the Drowning Creek Volunteer Fire Department in the amount of $64,320. Both departments serve areas of Burke County near the border with Catawba County. These grants come in the eighteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is Icard Township Fire & Rescue’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant. According to Chief Brand Lingerfelt, “We plan to use these funds to purchase communications equipment to make our department interoperable with Burke County’s 800 megahertz VIPER communications system.” Chief Lingerfelt continued, “Congressman McHenry has been a true friend to the fire services and we appreciate his support of the Assistance to Firefighters Program.” Drowning Creek VFD is receiving its first AFG Grant in recent years and will use the proceeds to purchase basic fire protection equipment. “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $915,155 has been awarded to sixteen departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
01.09.2009	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $61,750 for a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Lake Norman Volunteer Fire Department in Iredell County, and comes in the eighteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. According to Lake Norman Volunteer Fire Department officials, the AFG Grant will be used to purchase an exhaust ventilation system for the truck bay at the fire station. “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $915,155 has been awarded to sixteen departments in the Tenth District and at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties has received a grant. ###
01.08.2009	Congressman Patrick McHenry announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has awarded a 15-year lease for the second phase of its new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Hickory. A new one-story building with more than 23,000 useable square feet and on-site parking for 150 vehicles will be constructed on Lot 3, Century Place, SE in Hickory. “By more than doubling the size and scope of the new Hickory VA clinic, we are taking another significant step toward providing our veterans with the quality health care they deserve,” said Congressman McHenry. Phase 2 of the CBOC, scheduled to open in late 2010, will provide primary care, general mental health services and eye care for 11,000 veterans in Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Iredell, Lincoln and Wilkes counties. The staff will consist of 80 full-time positions including 10 primary care clinical providers. On June 4, 2008, the new veterans’ health care clinic opened at 1170 Fairgrove Church Drive in Hickory with a 37-member staff including five primary care providers. This location serves an estimated 5,500 local veterans during Phase 1 of the CBOC. Upon opening the facility at Century Place, this clinic will be closed and the staff and services transferred to the new site. Congressman Patrick McHenry was recognized by the North Carolina Chapters of the American Legion and Marine Corps League for his extensive work in bringing the VA clinic to Hickory. In October of this year, the VA announced plans for a second CBOC in Tenth District to serve an estimated 3,600 veterans in Rutherford, Cleveland and Polk Counties. “Our nation has a solemn obligation to provide affordable and accessible health care for our veterans,” said Congressman McHenry. ####
12.22.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has made federal economic injury disaster loans available to small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives and most private, non-profit organizations of all sizes located in Avery and Mitchell counties. The SBA has determined that there were significant financial losses suffered by local small businesses resulting from the drought of 2008. Eligible small businesses and non-profit organizations may qualify for loans up to $2 million. These loans are available at a 4 percent interest rate with loan terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the applicant, type of activity and its financial resources. Disaster victims should contact the SBA’s Customer Service Center by calling 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the hearing-impaired) or by emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can be downloaded from the SBA’s website www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925, Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. Victims may also visit SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela/ to apply. Completed loan applications must be returned to SBA no later than August 10, 2009. ###
12.19.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement in response to the Bush Administration’s bailout of two of the twelve international automakers with operations in the United States. “This is very unfortunate news for both American taxpayers and autoworkers. Taxpayers are forced to fund the continuation of the automakers’ bankrupt business model, which jeopardizes the long-term job security of autoworkers. The Administration set rhetorical goals for restructuring and competitiveness but failed to commit the automakers and its union to any semblance of a tangible restructuring plan. In what can only be described as an end run around the legislative branch, the Administration received no more concessions from both parties than Congress did. Yet they still found it appropriate to bury another generation of Americans in debt. “The provision that claims the loans will be called if the automakers fail to meet those goals by March 31 of next year is meaningless. Does anyone actually believe that if these companies spend that money and fail to meet those goals, they will be able to repay taxpayers their $17 billion? “Equally problematic is the Treasury's lack of statutory authority to direct TARP dollars to the automakers. While the statute, passed by Congress in October, grants the Secretary broad discretion in deciding how to employ the funds, it clearly limits the recipients to “financial institutions.” “General Motors and Chrysler are terminal patients desperately in need of major surgery. Instead, the Administration chose to apply a $17 billion band-aid and hope for a miracle. The employees, dealers, suppliers and manufacturers of these two companies deserve better.” ###
12.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced two U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants totaling $113,703 for local fire departments in Caldwell County. The grants will go to the Yadkin Valley Volunteer Fire Department in the amount of $26,991 and to the North Catawba Fire-Rescue Department in the amount of $86,712. Both departments serve largely rural response areas of Caldwell County. The grants come in the fifteenth and sixteenth rounds of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is North Catawba Fire-Rescue’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant and its third in the last four years. According to Chief Randy Swanson, “We plan to use these funds to make improvement to our fire station, purchase a thermal imaging camera and upgrade our communications equipment.” Chief Swanson continued, “I want to thank Congressman McHenry for his steadfast support of the AFG Program and for all he has done for our district’s firefighters and emergency responders – he has been there every step of the way.” Yadkin Valley VFD is receiving its first AFG Grant in recent years and will use the funds to purchase breathing apparatus and communications equipment. “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Congressman McHenry has made several visits to the North Catawba Fire-Rescue and was recently named an honorary member of the department. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $743,690 has been awarded to thirteen departments in the Tenth District. ###
12.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $55,005 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Long View Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the fifteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. According to Long View Fire officials, the AFG Grant will be used to purchase rescue and extrication equipment to enable the department to become a rescue first-response department in addition to offering fire protection. “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $743,690 has been awarded to thirteen departments in the Tenth District. ###
12.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $35,268 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Hugh’s Pond Volunteer Fire Department in Gaston County, and comes in the fifteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is Hugh’s Pond VFD’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant and its third in the last four years. Last November, Congressman McHenry visited Hugh’s Pond VFD to present a check for last year’s AFG Grant. “The firefighters of Hugh’s Pond serve an area just outside of my hometown of Cherryville and also provide assistance in southern Lincoln County. I was grateful for the opportunity to visit with the firefighters and their families and could not be happier that Hugh’s Pond was successful in earning another federal grant.” “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Hugh’s Pond VFD was one of four departments in the Tenth Congressional District to receive AFG funding in the fifteenth round of this year’s grant cycle. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $743,690 has been awarded to thirteen departments in the Tenth District. ###
12.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $29,173 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Brendletown Volunteer Fire Department in Burke County, and comes in the fifteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is Brendletown VFD’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant. Last September, Congressman McHenry visited Brendletown VFD to present a check for the last year’s AFG Grant. “I was grateful for the opportunity to visit with the Brendletown firefighters and their families at a car show and concert they had organized. I am very pleased to see they were successful in earning federal grant again this year.” “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Brendletown VFD was one of four departments in the Tenth Congressional District to receive AFG funding in the fifteenth round of this year’s grant cycle. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $743,690 has been awarded to thirteen departments in the Tenth District. ###
12.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $39,045 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Fall Creek Volunteer Fire Department in Avery County, and comes in the sixteenth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is Fall Creek VFD’s second straight year in receiving an AFG Grant. Last November, Congressman McHenry visited Fall Creek VFD to present a check for last year’s AFG Grant. “I was grateful for the opportunity to visit with the firefighters and their families at Fall Creek last year and am happy to see they were successful in earning a federal grant again this year.” “With today’s tough economy, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is absolutely crucial, especially for volunteer departments,” stated Congressman McHenry. “Barbeques and fundraisers simply aren’t sufficient to cover the costs of the advanced equipment necessary to protect our fire service personnel. It has been my honor to work closely with fire, rescue and other emergency service providers to help them get the resources they need to protect our communities.” Fall Creek VFD was one of two departments in the Tenth Congressional District to receive AFG funding in the sixteenth round of this year’s grant cycle. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $743,690 has been awarded to thirteen departments in the Tenth District. ###
12.10.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry voted against H.R. 7321, the legislation authorizing the use of American taxpayer dollars to bail out domestic automakers. Congressman McHenry stated, “At its essence, this bill is nothing more than the Democratic Congress, President Bush, President-elect Obama, the UAW, the automaker CEOs, and a to-be-determined ‘car czar’ saying to American taxpayers, ‘Trust us with your money. We’ve got a secret plan.’ Well, that doesn’t cut it. Before a single dollar is extracted from taxpayers, a concrete reorganization plan should be presented to the American public and debated by their representatives in Washington. Instead, we’re told, ‘trust us and vote yes.’” In today’s Washington Post, an automotive analyst accurately and objectively characterized the legislation saying, “With only broad goals of viability and competitiveness outlined in the bill, the depth and pace of [American automaker] restructuring will depend on the tough-mindedness of the 'czar' to extract meaningful concessions from labor and bondholders.” “With absolutely no assurances that this first $15 billion of taxpayer money will do little more than delay the inevitable, I can not vote for the bill. In the long run, far more American automobile-related jobs will be saved under Chapter 11 reorganization than tweaking and perpetuating the failed business practices of the Big Three and the UAW,” McHenry said. The Congressman raised concerns about whether a successful bailout would even yield positive results for Americans. In a November 6, 2006 interview with the Wall Street Journal, General Motors CEO Rick Wagoner said, “China is a natural” to produce “built–up cars and components.” Another Journal article the following day stated, “The manufacturing of vehicles is starting to shift to China, in much the same way that production of garments, televisions and computers did.” In light of this, Congressman McHenry asked, “Does this secret plan include a means to reverse the industry’s trend of shutting down American auto parts dealers and manufacturers in favor of cheap Chinese competitors? “If American taxpayers are forced to bailout the American automakers, then they deserve absolute assurances that American automobile-related workers and businesses will reap the benefits – not Chinese competitors. Otherwise, what exactly is the point of saving so-called American automakers if the outcome will be job creation in China?” ###
11.24.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $20,087 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Boger City Fire Department in Lincoln County, and comes in the eleventh round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “This is the second year in a row and the third time in four years that the Boger City Fire Department has received an Assistance to Firefighters Grant,” Congressman McHenry stated. “That is a testament to the department’s professionalism and the dedication of its members.” The Congressman visited Boger City Fire Department last November to present a check for last year’s grant. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $471,496 has been awarded to local fire departments. ###
11.24.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced $53,343 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to local fire departments in Cleveland County. The grants will go to the Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department in the amount of $31,588 and to the Number Seven Township Volunteer Fire Department in the amount of $21,755. Both departments serve largely rural response areas of Cleveland County. These grants come in the eleventh round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Cleveland County fire departments have been very successful in earning AFG Grants in recent years,” Congressman McHenry stated. “In fact, the largest AFG Grant ever awarded in the State of North Carolina was a regional grant for just under $1 million in 2006 and every fire department in Cleveland County got a portion of that.” Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. Thus far in this year’s fiscal cycle, $471,496 has been awarded to departments in the Tenth District. ###
11.10.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that all 10 counties comprising the Tenth District have qualified for federal loan assistance stemming from the drought and excessive heat experienced in 2008. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has determined that there were sufficient agriculture production losses to warrant a disaster designation across the Tenth District. This designation makes farm operators in Avery, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Cleveland, Gaston, Iredell, Lincoln, Mitchell, and Rutherford Counties eligible for consideration of low-interest emergency loans from USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA). For more information, farmer operators are encouraged to contact their local FSA offices. Avery County: FSA Farm Loan Office for Appraiser 140 Cranberry Street Newland, NC 28657 (828) 733-7010 Burke & Caldwell Counties: Burke County Farm Service Agency 130 Ammons Drive Morganton, NC 28655 (828) 439-9727 ext 2 Catawba County: Catawba County Farm Service Agency 1175 S. Brady Avenue Newton, NC 28658 (828) 464-1382 ext 2 Cleveland County: Cleveland County Farm Service Agency 844 Wallace Grove Drive Shelby, NC 28150 (704) 471-0235 ext 2 Gaston & Lincoln Counties: Gaston County Farm Service Agency 1303 Dallas Cherryville Highway Dallas, NC 28034 (704) 922-3806 Iredell County: Iredell County Farm Service Agency 444 Bristol Drive Statesville, NC 28677 (704) 872-5061 Mitchell County: Mitchell County Farm Service Agency 11943 S. 226 Highway Spruce Pine, NC 28777 (828) 765-5049 ext 2 Rutherford County: Rutherford County Farm Service Agency 121 Laurel Drive Rutherfordton, NC 28139 (828) 287-4220 ###
10.23.2008	Today, the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry announced that the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) presented the Congressman with its Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. NAM is the nation’s largest industrial trade association representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector. According to NAM, Congressman McHenry’s voting record in the 110th Congress demonstrates consistent support for a “pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda.” “Your favorable votes on manufacturing issues helped advance the effort to maintain U.S. leadership in the global economy, reduce excessive production costs, develop at 21st century workforce, revitalize our nation’s infrastructure and promote innovation, investment and productivity,” wrote Daniel Steen, Chairman of NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. “In Western North Carolina, we confront no more serious challenge than rebuilding our economy and creating good jobs. To achieve the goal of economic security, we must create a business environment that helps our local manufacturers prosper and grow,” said Congressman McHenry. NOTE: Congressman McHenry earned the National Association of Manufacturers’ Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence in the 109th Congress as well. ###
10.22.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security grant in the amount of $14,000 to the City of Newton Police Department in Catawba County. The grant comes through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) which helps to ensure that law enforcement and emergency responders can acquire specialized equipment and training to meet their homeland security mission. "The fine men and women of the Newton Police Department are dedicated to serving their community. I know Chief Brown and his team will put this grant to good use in protecting the safety of the citizens of Newton," said Congressman McHenry. CEDAP is a mechanism for the Department of Homeland Security to work with local fire, rescue and police departments in strengthening the nation’s ability to prevent, protect, respond and recover from a natural disaster or terrorist attack. "These funds will enable the Newton Police Department to purchase a new dTective Forensic Analysis System," said Newton Police Chief Don Brown. "The dTective is an advanced forensics system that will give the Newton Police better tools for video evidence enhancement, clarification and analysis in criminal investigations." CEDAP offers equipment in the following categories: extrication devices; thermal imaging, night vision and video surveillance tools; chemical, biological and radiological detection tools; information technology and risk management tools; and vehicle tracking tools. This program also focuses on those smaller communities and metropolitan areas not eligible for the Urban Area Security Initiative grant program to apply for assistance through this program. ###
10.22.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced that Granite Falls-based Mariner Container Corporation has received $1.6 million in federal funding to begin producing "Smart Containers" as part of a Department of Defense subcontract. Working closely with Mariner, Congressman McHenry made the request to fund the project. Smart Containers represent a dramatic advance in shipping technology. Unlike ISO containers currently in use, Smart Containers are recyclable and are outfitted with tracking technology that substantially improves port and national security by allowing security personnel to better track material entering and exiting the United States. Mariner expects to produce four prototypes within the next 6 to 8 months. "Both Mariner and Caldwell County are well deserving of this exciting economic development opportunity for our region," said Congressman McHenry. "The Smart Container project will make an important contribution to improving our homeland security as well as create good jobs for Caldwell County." The program’s manufacturing and data tracking facilities will be located in Caldwell County, creating hundreds of new manufacturing and technology sector jobs. "We are thrilled to get this project underway and want to thank both Patrick McHenry and Caldwell County for their help. Caldwell County’s very capable workforce is key to making our Smart Container project a success for both our country and our community," said Mariner Container Corp CEO Rick Lampe. ###
10.21.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant in the amount of $8,000 to the City of Lenoir Police Department in Caldwell County. The grant comes through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) which helps to ensure that law enforcement and emergency responders can acquire specialized equipment and training to meet their homeland security mission. "The Lenoir Police Department is a first-class outfit of public servants dedicated to protect their fellow citizens. I know Chief Reynolds and his team will put this grant to good use," said Congressman McHenry. CEDAP is a mechanism for the Department of Homeland Security to work with local fire, rescue and police departments in strengthening the nation’s ability to prevent, protect, respond and recover from a natural disaster or terrorist attack. "These funds will enable the Lenoir Police Department to purchase a new Mini Thermal Monocular, a versatile piece of equipment that detects a suspect or victim’s body heat," said Lenoir Police Chief Joey Reynolds. "It can be used for a wide range of missions, including reconnaissance, surveillance, and search & rescue." CEDAP offers equipment in the following categories: extrication devices; thermal imaging, night vision and video surveillance tools; chemical, biological and radiological detection tools; information technology and risk management tools; and vehicle tracking tools. This program also focuses on those smaller communities and metropolitan areas not eligible for the Urban Area Security Initiative grant program to apply for assistance through this program. ###
10.14.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has approved a health care clinic to serve veterans in the 10th District. The VA has begun taking site bids and hopes to open the 6,500-square feet facility in the fall of 2009. The Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) will provide health care services for 3,600 veterans in Rutherford, Cleveland and Polk Counties. With a staff of 25 including three primary care physicians, two psychiatrists and one psychologist, the clinic will provide both primary care and mental health services to veterans. “I applaud the decision of the VA to make another investment in improving the quality of health care available to our veterans. We must always strive to honor the commitment made to the brave men and women who so nobly serve our country,” said Congressman McHenry. For more information, please contact Jerry Thomas, the Public Affairs Officer with the Asheville CBOC, at (828) 296-4446. ####
10.07.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry announced today that he voted to extend benefits for jobless workers. The Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 6867) would extend benefits by an extra 7 weeks in all states and an additional 13 weeks in states like North Carolina who have unemployment rates above 6%. North Carolina’s unemployment rate has risen to 6.9%. Having passed the House of Representatives, the bill can now be considered by the Senate. “The painful effects of unfair trade deals continue to be felt in Western North Carolina. With so many of our jobs being sent to China, it is critical that we provide the support our displaced workers need to get back on their feet,” said Congressman McHenry. This marks the second time this year that Congressman McHenry has voted to extend benefits for jobless workers. On June 12th, he was one of only 49 Republicans to vote for the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (H.R. 5749), which extended benefits by an additional 13 weeks. The bill was signed into law on June 30th as part of the supplemental appropriations bill (H.R. 2642). NOTE: Congressman McHenry was one of 27 Republicans to vote against the Central American Free Trade Agreement (H.R. 3045, 109th Congress). ###
10.03.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement regarding his third vote against taxpayer-funded bailouts: “This is without question one of toughest votes I have taken in my four years in Congress. I continue to believe that action is needed to stabilize our financial markets but this is not the right approach. For American taxpayers, $850 billion is an enormous price to pay for an experimental plan that can not promise market stability or fundamental reforms to avoid future turmoil. “The U.S. Treasury has bailed out a number of financial institutions and yet the problem persists. While reasonable people can come to different conclusions, I believe this is evidence that the strategy of taxpayer-funded bailouts is not the most effective course of action. Why then must we continue to pursue the same basic approach that Secretary Paulson has employed with little success? “Should another round of bailouts not bring lasting stability to our markets, I sincerely hope that we try the approach that I am advocating. We can utilize strategies to fix our markets without requiring taxpayers to bankroll the government’s knee-jerk reaction to take unprecedented ownership of the markets. “I will continue to encourage the Securities and Exchange Commission to address the root causes of the liquidity problems that have stopped our credit markets from working. I will support initiatives that will allow for a capital infusion into our markets to help create jobs and grow our economy. And perhaps the most important move to restore long-term stability, this Congress must reform failed government institutions, starting with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.” ###
09.29.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement regarding the Wall Street bailout proposal. “Over the past two weeks, my focus has been on the significant turmoil facing our financial and capital markets and the potential threat it poses to the people of Western North Carolina. From the beginning, I was deeply skeptical of Secretary Paulson's unprecedented proposal to use $700 billion of taxpayer money to address this problem. “While I believe that action is needed, the legislation before Congress represented a fundamentally flawed approach to addressing the turmoil on Wall Street. At a time when Western North Carolina families are struggling to pay their bills each month, I believe it is inherently wrong for Congress to open the taxpayers’ check book and cut a $700 billion check to bailout Wall Street. There are alternative approaches to address this problem that do not require generations of American families to pay the bill for the irresponsible actions of Wall Street. “In 2005, my first year in Congress, I recognized the threat that the runaway train of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac posed to our financial markets. That’s why I voted for the reform and regulation of these companies that could have averted our current crisis. In July of this year, I voted against legislation that issued the first blank check to begin the Wall Street bailouts. Since then, taxpayers have bailed out a series of financial institutions and yet the problem persists. Therefore, I’ve concluded that another round of taxpayer-funded bailouts will not bring lasting stability to our financial markets. “Now that this bill has failed, I encourage the leaders of the Democrat-run Congress to offer legislation that will bring stability to our financial markets while providing protection for taxpayers.” NOTE: On October 26, 2005, Congressman McHenry voted for H.R. 1461, which would have instituted significant reform and regulation of Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE) including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. ###
09.25.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry voted Wednesday for a measure that funds crucial programs for 10th District workers, military personnel, and veterans. H.R. 2638 extends the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program through March 6, 2009. For workers who see their jobs sent overseas, TAA provides training and support to help them transition to new employment. A long-time supporter of TAA, Congressman McHenry has often broken with his own party to vote for extending the program which heavily impacts the 10th District. “Far too many Western North Carolina workers have lost their jobs as a result of unfair trade deals. This program is critical to helping them get back on their feet and start new careers,” said Congressman McHenry. Additionally, Congressman McHenry voted to increase pay for military personnel by 3.9% and to designate $118.9 billion for military construction and veterans’ programs. The Veterans Administration (VA) health care clinic in Hickory and the planned VA clinic for Rutherford County will receive a portion of that funding. “Patrick McHenry continues to be an effective advocate for getting the veterans of Western North Carolina the quality health care they deserve. For all they do to protect our freedoms and keep America safe, our troops are darn well entitled to a pay raise,” said Brock McCleary, Communications Director for Congressman McHenry. NOTE: Congressman Patrick McHenry was recognized by the North Carolina Chapters of the American Legion and Marine Corps League for his work in bringing the VA clinic to Hickory after 16 years of delay. ###
09.19.2008	With leaders of the Democrat-run Congress in the process of developing a second economic stimulus bill, Congressman Patrick McHenry today issued the following statement. “We must strengthen our economy and create jobs by addressing the energy crisis and making the middle class tax cuts permanent. It is undeniable that high gas prices are a primary cause of the economic recession. Last year, we drained $1 trillion out of the American economy by importing 66% of our oil from dangerous and hostile foreign regimes. And yet the Democrat-run Congress passed a bill this week that effectively blocks offshore drilling and any hope of increasing the production of American oil and natural gas, which would create millions of new jobs in the energy sector. “Small businesses and middle class families can not afford to pay higher taxes right now. Increasing taxes now would devastate the economy of Western North Carolina. That’s why Congress must act to make the small business and middle class tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 permanent.” ###
09.16.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry criticized the leadership of the Democrat-run Congress for proposing an energy bill that effectively blocks offshore drilling by not offering coastal states, like North Carolina, any of the revenue from offshore leases. According to the U.S. Department of Interior’s Minerals Management Services, offshore drilling leases would deliver $23.8 billion in tax revenue for North Carolina. As has been widely noted, with no financial incentive, states would almost certainly veto any drilling off their coasts. As a result, pro-drilling Democrat Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, has pronounced the bill “dead on arrival in the Senate.” (source: Congress Daily, 9/15/08) This appears to be the objective of the House Democrat leadership which has previously stated their ideological opposition to drilling for American energy resources. Pointing to another of the Democrats’ motivations, Landrieu “said some environmental groups opposed revenue sharing, arguing it would put pressure on states to accept drilling that the groups opposed.” (source: The Virginian-Pilot, 9/13/08) “The Democrats want to appear to support drilling while rigging the legislation to ensure no drilling actually occurs. It comes with a wink and a nod to extreme environmental special interests who bankroll the Democrats’ campaigns,” Congressman McHenry said. Congress Daily reports that Senior House Democrats confess their proposal is a “political exercise” not intended as serious legislation that would address the nation’s energy crisis. (source: Congress Daily, 9/9/08) “With no chance of becoming law, this hoax of an energy bill guarantees that Western North Carolina will be paying high gas prices permanently. That is unacceptable,” Congressman McHenry stated. ###
08.19.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry joined local employers at a rally and seminar in opposition to the so-called Employee Free Choice Act, otherwise known as “card-check” legislation. The event was hosted by the Catawba County Chamber of Commerce. Card-check eliminates the right to secret ballot elections for workers deciding whether to unionize in the workplace. Labor unions would now only have to get signatures on a card from a majority of employees to form a union. “Eliminating the democratic process in the workplace is a serious violation of worker’s rights and a threat to their wages,” Congressman McHenry stated. The measure is criticized for putting workers at greater risk for harassment and intimidation by union organizers. George McGovern, former Democrat Senator from South Dakota and 1972 Democrat presidential nominee, recently wrote an editorial in the Wall Street Journal opposing card-check. Senator McGovern, who describes himself as ‘longtime friend of labor unions’ wrote of, ‘many documented cases where workers have been pressured, harassed, tricked and intimated into signing cards that have led to mandatory payment of dues.’ The legislative progress of card-check, the top priority of national labor unions, has stalled and faces a presidential veto. However, the bill is expected to be voted on in the 111th Congress and is supported by Democrat presidential nominee Barack Obama. “The workers of Western North Carolina deserve to know who will fight to protect their rights and wages,” Congressman McHenry said. ###
08.15.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry outlined measures needed for the United States to increase its domestic oil refining capacity. Congressman McHenry continues to put forth a series of proposals to increase the exploration and production of American energy resources. “Permanently bringing down gas prices requires us to increase the supply of American oil while simultaneously increasing our refining capacity,” Congressman McHenry stated. Because of a lengthy and complicated bureaucratic permitting process, a new oil refinery has not been built in the United States since 1976. The expansion of current refineries has been the only means by which the country’s overall refining capacity has increased. According to the Energy Information Administration, the United States is currently utilizing 88.8% of its oil refining capacity. In June, the Wall Street Journal noted, ‘Refineries are stretched to the limit, but multiple regulatory barriers impede new construction.’ Congressman McHenry proposed streamlining the multi-agency permitting process and appointing a federal coordinator to help manage the process. The coordinator would work with both federal and state agencies to expedite pending permits. (source: H.R.2279) Tax exempt revenue bonds would be used for building new refineries that only produce and sell their oil in the United States. Similar bonds were utilized in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. (source: H.R.3089) Congressman McHenry has also proposed utilizing decommissioned military bases as possible locations for construction of new refineries. New refineries could serve as engines of economic development and job creation for areas that struggle in the aftermath of base closings. (source: H.R. 2279) Unlike the mere expansion of existing refineries, new facilitates could be constructed with the capability to refine oil shale, of which the United States owns the world’s largest deposits. Oil shale is similar in composition to tar sands that Canada refines for use as common automobile fuel. “Until we can power our economy with alternative energy sources, we must start using America’s large reserves of oil. Increasing our refining capacity will lower gas prices for Western North Carolina by bringing American oil to market faster,” Congressman McHenry said. ###
08.15.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $51,762 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the City of Lenoir Fire Department in Caldwell County, and comes in the seventh round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “This AFG Grant comes on the heels of Lenoir Fire Department’s receipt of a $503,458 federal SAFER Grant for staffing and personnel recruitment,” Congressman McHenry stated. “Mayor David Barlow, Chief Ken Briscoe and the entire Lenoir community are to be commended for their great leadership. These grants will help protect Lenoir’s citizens for years to come.” According to Lenoir Fire Chief Ken Briscoe, the department will use the funds to purchase new personal protective gear (turnout gear) for their department. “This grant will allow our department to outfit all of our personnel in fully NFPA-compliant turnout gear.” Chief Briscoe continued, “Once again, Congressman McHenry has shown why he is the best friend that firefighters have on Capitol Hill. He is there for us year-in and year-out. We truly are blessed to have him fighting for us.” Lenoir was one of two departments in North Carolina to receive AFG funding in the seventh round of this year’s grant cycle and is the fourth overall Tenth District department to have funds awarded. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. ###
08.08.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced the schedule of his annual town hall meetings. Congressman McHenry will hold a town hall meeting in each of the 10 counties comprising the 10th District. As Western North Carolina families struggle with high gas prices, Congressman McHenry’s town hall meetings this year will focus on our nation’s energy crisis and how to solve it. “Each and every day constituents ask me how we got into this mess of an energy crisis and how we’re going to get out of it. I look forward to sharing my plan for lower gas prices and American energy independence with the good people of Western North Carolina,” Congressman McHenry stated. Below please find the schedule and locations for the town hall meetings. Mitchell County Monday, August 11th, 7:00 p.m. Spruce Pine Library Main Meeting Room 142 Walnut Avenue Spruce Pine, NC Avery County Tuesday, August 12th, 6:00 p.m. Newland Town Hall Town Council Board Room 301 Cranberry Street Newland, NC Lincoln County Wednesday, August 13th, 7:00 p.m. East Lincoln Community Center 8160 Optimist Club Road Denver, NC Burke County Thursday, August 14th, 7:00 p.m. Burke County Services Building Commissioners’ Board Room Entrance E 110 North Green Street Morganton, NC Rutherford County Friday, August 15th, 6:00 p.m. Thomas Jefferson Classical Academy Gymnasium 2527 Highway 221-A Mooresboro, NC Cleveland County Monday, August 18th, 7:00 p.m. Charles Harry Administrative Building Commissioners’ Chamber 311 E. Marion Street Shelby, NC Catawba County Tuesday, August 19th, 7:00 p.m. Catawba Valley Community College Main Auditorium 2550 Highway 70 SE Hickory, NC Iredell County Wednesday, August 20th, 7:00 p.m. Mooresville Town Hall Town Commissioners’ Chamber 413 N. Main Street Mooresville, NC Caldwell County Thursday, August 21st, 7:00 p.m. Government Office Building Commissioners’ Board Room Lower Level 905 West Avenue NW Lenoir, NC Gaston County Friday, August 22nd, 6:00 p.m. Cherryville Fire Department Community/Training Room 411 E. Church Street Cherryville, NC ###
08.07.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry called on the leaders of the Democrat-controlled Congress to allow a vote to overturn the ban on the production of oil shale in the Mountain West. Oil shale, first explored in 1921 in Colorado, is sedimentary rock that over the course of millions of years would geologically mature into crude oil. Scientists have developed a process that speeds up the geological process by millions of years to turn oil shale into crude oil in a few short years. The Mountain West of the United States is home to the world’s largest deposits of oil shale. Its estimated 2 trillion barrels of oil is three times greater than the proven reserves of Saudi Arabia and more than the reserves of Iran, Venezuela, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Mexico and Russia combined. As a point of reference, 1 trillion barrels of oil is approximately the same amount of oil the world has used since oil was first extracted for commercial use in 1859. “Oil shale has the potential to help us achieve American energy independence much sooner than anyone realizes. And yet the Democrat-controlled Congress is content to keep it locked away and watch as gas prices reach record highs,” Congressman McHenry stated. Last December, Congressional Democrats attached a rider to a U.S. Department of Interior appropriations bill that prohibited the Department from leasing federal lands for the production of oil shale. “The energy crisis is crippling the American economy and driving up gas prices for Western North Carolina families. With oil shale, we can power the American economy with American energy and create good-paying American jobs,” Congressman McHenry stated. With our dependence on foreign oil having grown to 66.19% in 2007, the United States will now be sending nearly $1 trillion overseas each year to bolster the economies of hostile foreign regimes. ###
08.01.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security grant of $58,952 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to George Hildebran Fire & Rescue in Burke County, and comes in the fifth round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “This is the third consecutive year that George Hildebran Fire and Rescue has received an AFG Grant,” Congressman McHenry stated. “That is certainly a testament not just to those in the department who wrote the grant, but to the professionalism and dedication of the entire department.” According to Captain Derek Brittain, the department will use the funds to purchase new hoses for their trucks. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. At least two departments in each of the ten counties of the Tenth Congressional District received AFG Grants. ###
08.01.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry responded to the Democrats who control Congress granting themselves a 5-week vacation. “Congressional Democrats had a choice to make. Either they could do their jobs or they could go on vacation. With American families paying record-high gas prices, they chose vacation. Democrats could not be more out-of-touch with the struggles of middle class families,” Congressman McHenry stated. Congressman McHenry voted against adjournment, which passed 213-197 with 15 Democrats joining Republicans in voting no. The leadership of Congressional Democrats spent the entire month of July blocking all votes on bipartisan legislation that would allow the exploration and production of American energy resources to help lower gas prices and move America toward energy independence. The Wall Street Journal wrote today, “Democrats appear ready to sacrifice their whole agenda, even spending, rather than allow new domestic energy production. Or even a mere debate about energy. The Democratic leadership is stonewalling any measure that might possibly relax the Congressional ban on offshore drilling.” Congressman McHenry intends to devote the next five weeks to traveling throughout Western North Carolina meeting with constituents to hear their stories of how the energy crisis is impacting their lives. Throughout August, McHenry will hold a town hall meeting in all 10 counties comprising the 10th District to discuss America’s energy crisis and how we can solve it. Details of the town hall meetings will be released next week. ###
08.01.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Education grant in the amount of $394,190 to Cleveland Community College. This amount represents the first installment of the grant that is expected to exceed $1 million. “Quality higher education and job training are critical to a stronger economy in Western North Carolina. Cleveland Community College is an outstanding institution and very deserving of this grant,” Congressman McHenry stated. The grant will fund improvements to the student advising services at Cleveland Community College. Currently, the College provides academic and course guidance, but does not have the means to offer full-time professional advising services to help guide students beyond their academic studies. However, with this grant, the College will create a Student Success Center to expand the scope of student counseling. “The Title Three Grant provides us an incredible opportunity to better serve the citizens of Cleveland County,” commented Dr. L. Steve Thornburg, President of Cleveland Community College. “We will have more tools to help students get the help they need to achieve their educational goals.” Additionally, the college will use some of the grant to fund early intervention efforts to assist students with academic difficulties. ###
07.30.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry issued the following statement in response to the Democrat-controlled Congress voting to give itself a 5-week vacation in the midst of the worst energy crisis in United States history. “The American people demand action to address the energy crisis. But the Democrats who control Congress have made it clear that their vacation plans are more important than finding solutions to record-high gas prices. We should be rolling cots onto the House floor and staying here as long as it takes to debate and vote on real legislation that will help solve the energy crisis. The families of Western North Carolina deserve nothing less.” ###
07.28.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry called for Congressional action to lower gas prices and move America toward energy independence by overturning the federal ban on the use of American energy resources in ANWR. ANWR, located on the northern slope of Alaska, is one of the most desolate places on earth with temperatures that reach minus-30 degrees Fahrenheit and no sunlight for 56 days a year. ANWR is also home to an estimated 18 billion barrels of American oil, which can be recovered in an environmentally-safe way thanks to advances in exploration technology. ANWR’s 18 billion barrels of oil is the equivalent of 30 years of Middle East oil imports. A report last week by the U.S. Geological Survey suggests that those estimates may be low as it found that the Artic region, where the U.S has significant holdings, contains over a fifth of the world’s undiscovered, recoverable oil and natural gas. "Western North Carolina families can not afford higher gas prices while this Congress sits on its hands and does nothing. We must act now to increase the supply of American energy resources and lower gas prices," Congressman McHenry stated. Thirty years ago, President Jimmy Carter designated ANWR’s “10-02 Area” for energy exploration and production, which the federal government has since banned. Gas prices in the United States are rising primarily because supply is not keeping pace with demand. In 2007, global oil production decreased by 126,000 barrels per day while demand increased by one million barrels per day. “One day, America will be powered by alternative energy sources – and I’m working to make that happen – but until then we must use American energy resources to help solve our energy crisis,” Congressman McHenry declared. ###
07.24.2008	Today, 14 Members of the House Financial Services Committee sent the following letter to President Bush regarding H.R. 3221, the Mortgage Bailout Bill. “We urge President Bush to stand with the American taxpayer and stand by his original pledge to veto the largest corporate bailout in a generation,” Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) stated. July 24, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We would like to respectfully request that you reconsider your position on H.R. 3221, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. Yesterday afternoon, 152 Members of the House voted against H.R. 3221. Of those Members, 149 were Republicans, and as Republicans we voted our consciences as the fiduciaries of American tax dollars. It truly is unfortunate that we could not reach a compromise on a bipartisan bill that would ensure GSE safety and soundness and fiscal discipline, because right now we should be doing everything within our power to stabilize the GSEs and our housing markets to avoid the need for an even bigger taxpayer bailout down the road. Should you exercise your veto, the House vote yesterday indicates we have sufficient votes to sustain it. This could result in revised legislation that eliminates some, if not all, of the extraneous and wasteful provisions, leaving a bill that could gain broad bipartisan support. H.R. 3221 has been widely acknowledged as the most significant extension of the federal government into the financial and housing markets in a generation. As this bill moves from the House to the Senate, we respectfully request that you reevaluate your position. We hope you will consider exercising your veto authority so that Congress can have an opportunity to craft balanced legislation which ensures the long-term stability of the housing GSEs. Sincerely, Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (AL-6) Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) Congressman Tom Price (GA-6) Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-6) Congressman Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann (MN-6) Congressman Tom Feeney (FL-24) Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) Congressman Thaddeus McCotter (MI-11) Congressman Scott Garrett (NJ-5) Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-6) Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3) Congressman Donald Manzullo (IL-16) Congressman Ed Royce (CA-40) Congressman Kenny Marchant (TX-24) ###
07.14.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry has signed a discharge petition to force a floor vote in the U.S House of Representatives on H.R. 2208, the Coal-to-Liquid Fuel Act. The bipartisan legislation written by Representatives John Shimkus (R-IL) and Rick Boucher (D-VA), would promote the use of clean coal-to-liquid technology to produce alternative energy sources. "This is a bipartisan, common sense plan to utilize our country’s most abundant energy resource, in a clean and environmentally-safe way, to help move us toward energy independence and lower gas prices.” Congressman McHenry stated. The United States possesses more than a quarter of the world’s coal reserves. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates the total identified American coal resources as being 1,600 billion tons, with an additional 1,600 billion tons estimated in areas not yet explored. The total U.S. coal reserves represent enough to last 250 years at current rates of use. Congressman McHenry continued, “The United States is the Saudi Arabia of coal. Clean coal has the potential to break our costly dependence on foreign oil. Yet, it is being held hostage by the politics of Washington while the families of Western North Carolina are paying over $4 a gallon. The time to act is now.” Clean coal technologies scrub the impurities and sulfur dioxide during refining process. The carbon dioxide emitted is then captured and sequestered, preventing it from being released into the atmosphere. From an economic development perspective, continued advancements in clean coal technology hold the potential to create hundreds of thousands of good, high-paying Americans jobs. “We need to take a balanced approach to a new American energy policy that increases the supply of American energy resources and invests in alternatives energy sources,” McHenry concluded. ###
07.07.2008	At a press conference today, Congressman Patrick McHenry and representatives from local businesses discussed the causes of rising gas prices, their impact on the local economy, and ways to address the problem. "The cost of gas is pushing family budgets to the brink and threatening the viability of local employers. Congress can and must take action now to lower prices and rapidly move us toward energy independence," McHenry stated. Congressman McHenry began by discussing the nature of rising gas prices. In 2007, global oil production fell by 126,000 barrels a day while oil consumption grew by one million barrels a day. The increase in global demand for energy is driven largely by the rising middle class in India and China. By 2020, China will match the current U.S. oil consumption rate of 20 million barrels per day and by 2030, it will double current U.S. oil consumption. This trend forecasts high gas prices for Americans unless action is taken. Congressman McHenry was joined by Paul Thompson, Founder and CEO of Transportation Insight, a transportation and freight management consulting company based in Hickory, Jeff Hale of The Hickory Printing Group, and Kerry Lattimore from Von Drehle Corporation. Mr. Hale and Mr. Lattimore spoke about the increased cost of doing business as a result of higher gas prices. Mr. Thompson discussed strategies they are employing to help local businesses become more efficient and cost-effective with their transportation needs Congressman McHenry then offered a two-front strategy to reduce gas prices and make America energy independent. “First, we must stop pretending that the United States lacks the resources to become energy independent. The American people have a right to see America’s abundant energy resources used to help lower gas prices. At over $4 a gallon, the time to act is now,” Congressman McHenry declared. There are an estimated 18 billion barrels of recoverable oil in Alaska, the equivalent of 30 years of Middle East imports. Along the Outer Continental Shelf, there are an estimated 86 billion barrels of recoverable oil. In all, the United States possesses enough crude oil to power 65 million cars for 60 years. A July 3, 2008 public opinion survey conducted by CNN found that 73% of Americans now support offshore drilling for oil and natural gas. In addition to high gas prices, Congress’ refusal to allow the environmentally-safe exploration and production of energy resources is costing this country lost jobs and lost tax revenue. McHenry also discussed the use of oil shale and increased refining capacity to address the problems of supply in the energy market. The Rocky Mountain West is home to the world’s largest oil shale deposits, an estimated 800 billion barrels, which is three times larger than the proven oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. However, last December, Congressional Democrats included a provision in an energy bill that prevented the Department of Interior from issuing leases for the production of oil shale. “The American people are going to be furious when they learn that American energy independence has been sitting under our noses this whole time,” Congressman McHenry stated. McHenry’s second strategy for American energy independence is the development of alternative energy sources. Congressman McHenry is the author of the Independence Prize Act, which would award up to $1 billion to any U.S.-based private enterprise that develops workable products or technologies that help break our dependence on foreign oil, such as alternative fuels and efficiency improvements to engines. The idea is heralded as a 21st Century Manhattan Project. Lastly, technological advances have made the use of nuclear power safe, environmentally-friendly, and cost-effective. Congressman McHenry has consistently supported streamlining the regulatory and permitting process for nuclear power. ###
07.04.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10) issued the following statement today in response to the passing of Jesse Helms. "This morning, America lost a great conservative leader and North Carolina lost the greatest political leader it has ever known. The compassion and principle of Jesse Helms earned him respect and admiration across the political spectrum and in foreign capitals around the world. This Fourth of July let us celebrate both our independence and the life's work of this great man. A grateful nation sends its prayers to the Helms family." ###
07.03.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant for $199,500 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Bakersville Volunteer Fire Department (VFD) in Mitchell County, and comes in the first round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. The funds are designated as a Vehicle Acquisition Grant and will be used to purchase a new fire engine. “This is the second consecutive year that Bakersville has received an AFG Grant,” Congressman McHenry stated. “This grant will allow the department to acquire a new fire engine to protect the lives and property of the people of Mitchell County. I was thankful for the opportunity to visit the Bakersville fire station recently and look forward to returning to see the new truck when it arrives.” Bakersville was one of two departments in the Tenth District to receive AFG funding in the first round of this year’s grant cycle. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. At least two departments in each of the ten counties of the Tenth Congressional District received AFG Grants. ###
07.03.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry announced a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant of $81,852 to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Cliffside Area Volunteer Fire Department (VFD) in Rutherford County, and comes in the first round of this year’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “This is the second consecutive year that Cliffside has received an AFG Grant,” Congressman McHenry stated. “I was proud to visit their station in January to present a check for last year’s grant and to meet with the dedicated firefighters who volunteer their time and risk their lives to protect the Cliffside community.” According to Cliffside Area VFD Treasurer Jimmy Mason, the department will use the funds to purchase new oxygen packs to replace outdated ones. The Cliffside Area VFD provides service to a largely rural area in southeastern Rutherford County. Critically important, however, is the fact that the department’s response area includes Duke Energy’s Cliffside Steam Plant – the site of a much-anticipated and massive expansion project. Cliffside Area VFD will be the primary response department providing fire protection to Duke’s Cliffside Project. Cliffside was one of two departments in the Tenth District to receive AFG funding in the first round of this year’s grant cycle. Last fiscal year, twenty-eight departments in the Tenth Congressional District received AFG funding for a total of $3,138,123 in funds disbursed. At least two departments in each of the ten counties of the Tenth Congressional District received AFG Grants. ###
07.01.2008	This evening, Congressman Patrick McHenry hosted his third Homeownership Promotion and Foreclosure Prevention Seminar at the Highland Recreation Center in Hickory. "With a downturn in the housing market, it is critical that the families of Western North Carolina know what options are available to them. For others, who are considering purchasing a home, we want them to make the most informed decisions possible," McHenry stated. The seminar began with a roundtable discussion of housing issues, featuring Congressman McHenry and representatives from partnering organizations, including: HOPE NOW Alliance – An organization of counselors, servicers, investors, and other mortgage market participants dedicated to helping homeowners cope with housing costs. NeighborWorks America – A national nonprofit organization that provides financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts. U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – A federal agency devoted to increasing homeownership, supporting community development, and increasing access to affordable housing. Legal Aid of North Carolina – A state nonprofit organization that provides legal advice to homeowners. U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development – A federal agency committed to helping improve the quality of life in rural America, including assisting citizens of rural areas with housing issues. Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation – A local organization focused on improving the economic conditions in our local communities. Attendees then visited booths set up by these participating organizations to receive personal, private advice on their particular housing concerns. The North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts reports that more than 45,000 small businesses and households faced foreclosure in North Carolina last year, including nearly 5,190 in the ten counties comprising the Tenth Congressional District. Congressman Patrick McHenry's Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act, which requires lending institutions to provide borrowers with a simple, one-page summary of their mortgage obligations, passed the House of Representatives on November 15, 2007. "Borrowers are entitled to a full and simple disclosure of their mortgage obligations. My plan empowers consumers by bringing transparency to the process. As a former realtor, I know firsthand how confusing the legal jargon can be on home loans, and this will help people make sound financial decisions for their families," McHenry stated at the time. Earlier this year, Congressman McHenry hosted housing seminars in Lenoir and Shelby. ###
06.26.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry responded to the ruling by the United States Supreme Court overturning the District of Columbia’s ban on gun ownership. “The right to bear arms is a basic, fundamental right in this country. I’m glad the Supreme Court made it clear that this right is guaranteed to every individual citizen by the Second Amendment. Shame on the four justices who blatantly disregarded the explicit text of our Constitution,” Congressman McHenry declared. Congressman McHenry co-signed an amicus brief submitted to the Court by several lawmakers urging protection of the right to bear arms. ###
06.25.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry announced today that, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), an estimated 24% of Social Security Administration (SSA) and Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) beneficiaries in North Carolina who are eligible for economic stimulus payments have not received their checks because they have not filed a 2007 Federal income tax return. Taxpayers with an annual household income of at least $3,000 may be eligible for a tax rebate. People who do not typically file tax returns because of limited income still need to file a 2007 return on form 1040-A to receive the rebate. The deadline to file for the rebate is October 15, 2008. The IRS believes there approximately 21,089 eligible residents of 10th District of North Carolina who have not yet filed. The per county estimates are: Avery County 392 Burke County 2,076 Caldwell County 1,764 Catawba County 3,036 Cleveland County 2,631 Gaston County 4,697 Iredell County 2,911 Lincoln County 1,379 Mitchell County 449 Rutherford County 1,754 Congressman McHenry encourages constituents who have not filed a 2007 federal income tax return and think they may eligible for a rebate to contact the IRS at 1-800-829-1040. The number for the hearing impaired is 1-800-829-4059 (TDD). Detailed information and the forms and instructions needed to apply for an economic stimulus rebate are also available online at www.irs.gov . ###
06.19.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry voted in favor of one of the most significant pieces of legislation to come before the 110th Congress. The supplemental appropriations bill provides funding for a new GI Bill, our troops in the field as well as an extension of unemployment benefits. An original co-sponsor of the “Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act”, Congressman McHenry has long been an advocate for a modernized and more generous GI Bill. The new GI Bill contained in the supplemental provides veterans, who enlisted after 9/11 and have served at least three years, with the equivalent of four years of college education at a state university. Congressman McHenry worked to successfully get a provision included in the final draft of the bill that allows veterans’ benefits to be transferable to spouses or children. “The treatment of our veterans speaks to the moral credibility of this country. Today, the United States reaffirms its deep gratitude and obligation to our brave servicemen and women,” stated Congressman McHenry. The supplemental funding for America’s troops represents a rare and significant bipartisan agreement to provide our soldiers with the resources they need to defend this nation. For jobless workers who are approaching the end of their allowed unemployment compensation, the bill extends benefits for an additional 13 weeks. As reported, Congressman McHenry broke with his party’s leadership and the White House last week in voting for a similar extension of jobless benefits.* (*source: “Hayes, McHenry vote with Democrats”, Charlotte Observer, 6/14/2008) “Rising gas and food prices and unfair trade deals have produced an economy that is hurting Western North Carolina families and contributing to job losses in our region. I will keep fighting to get my constituents the help they need,” Congressman McHenry concluded. ###
06.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry declared his support for efforts to overturn the federal ban on safe and responsible production of American energy resources along the outer continental shelf (OCS). “As gas prices push family budgets to the brink, Congress has an obligation to act. Removing government roadblocks to environmentally-safe production of American energy resources is a good first step,” Congressman McHenry said. According to the U.S. Minerals Management Service, there is an estimated 420 trillion cubic feet of American natural gas and 86 billion barrels of American oil in banned areas along the OCS. That is enough American oil to power 46 million American automobiles for 60 years. As demand for energy increases, America’s supply of oil and gas must keep pace. Otherwise, we will become more reliant of foreign sources of energy and prices will continue to rise. A May 2008 Gallup poll found that 57% of the American people support the production of American energy resources along the outer continental shelf. That number is expected to rise in tandem with gas prices. “These are American resources that American taxpayers have a right to see brought to market. This is a case of the federal government standing in the way of a path to lower gas prices,” McHenry declared. Congressman McHenry is co-sponsoring H.R. 6108, the Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act of 2008, which overturns the ban along the OCS and expressly empowers states to forbid production within 100 miles of their shorelines. “One day, America will be powered by alternative sources of energy – and I’m working to make that happen. But until that day comes, we must use American resources to become more energy independent and lower gas prices,” McHenry concluded. ###
06.13.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) released the following statement after voting to pass the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (H.R. 5749): “Bad trade deals, high gas prices, and a housing market meltdown have taken a serious toll on Western North Carolina. When families are dealing with tough economic times, it’s important for them to have the resources they need to recover and rebuild,” said Congressman McHenry. Last week, the U.S. Department of Labor reported that the national unemployment rate rose to 5.5%, up from 5.0% in April – the biggest one month spike in 22 years. The North Carolina unemployment rate currently stands at 5.4%, a 0.7% increase in the last year. As a consequence of poorly-designed international trade deals, the ten Western North Carolina counties of the Tenth Congressional District have been particularly hard hit by worsening economic conditions, and all but one exceeds the state unemployment average. The unemployment rates there are as follows: • Avery County: 5.5% • Burke County: 7.1% • Caldwell County: 6.3% • Catawba County: 5.9% • Cleveland County: 6.7% • Gaston County: 6.1% • Iredell County: 4.9% • Lincoln County: 5.6% • Mitchell County: 7.2% • Rutherford County: 6.2% The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act will give 3.8 million unemployed Americans an extra three months of jobless benefits. Congressman McHenry was one of only 49 Republicans to vote in favor of the bill, which passed in the House yesterday by a margin of 274 – 137. In October of 2007, Congressman McHenry voted to reauthorize and expand the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which provides benefits and assistance to workers whose jobs have been lost to global trade. ###
06.12.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) signed a petition to force an up-or-down vote on comprehensive energy legislation designed to combat the skyrocketing price of gas. The rare procedural maneuver, know as a discharge petition, would force a vote on the No More Excuses Energy Act (H.R. 3089), which has been blocked by Democrat leadership for weeks. “As gas prices skyrocket past $4 a gallon, it’s painfully clear that Washington needs to quit playing politics and deliver a comprehensive solution to our energy crisis,” said Congressman McHenry. “This is a responsible plan to reduce fuel costs and achieve greater energy independence by bringing more refineries online, investing in alternative energy sources, and streamlining regulations to enhance American energy exploration. It is shameful for the Democrat leadership to block a vote on this bill when families and small businesses are getting hammered by record-high gas prices.” “Unlike every other country on Earth that cheers the discovery of domestic energy resources as a great national asset, the United States alone has pursued policies specifically designed to limit its ability to achieve energy independence since the 1960’s. It is long past time to reverse those misguided policies.” Introduced by Congressman Mac Thornberry of Texas, the No More Excuses Energy Act attacks America’s energy crisis by streamlining irresponsible regulations that currently prevent access to most of America’s vast energy wealth, which holds the keys to greater energy independence and lower prices at the pump. Specifically, the bill creates a competitive leasing program to responsibly explore for energy on federal lands in Alaska and removes a moratorium on energy exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf. In Alaska, 2,000 out of 19 million acres of land would be opened to energy exploration, which is comparable to opening an area the size of Lowes Motor Speedway in the state of South Carolina. There, it is estimated that the United States could recover enough oil to compensate for 15 years worth of Saudi Arabian oil imports. Off the Outer Continental Shelf, the United States would gain access to oil reserves estimated at 118 billion barrels of petroleum. Furthermore, the No Excuses Energy Act would reduce atmospheric carbon emissions by incentivizing the capture of carbon dioxide from smokestacks, which would then be used to extract valuable oil shale in the Western United States. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, these states are home to an estimated 1.8 trillion barrels worth of oil shale – enough energy to satisfy America’s current oil needs for the next 200 years. In addition to encouraging better use of American energy resources, the No Excuses Energy Act would help lower the price of gas by expediting the construction of new oil refining facilities. In 1982, 301 oil refineries operated in the United States. Since then, that number has fallen to just 149. Currently, 28% of America’s useable gasoline is refined outside of the United States, which increases the U.S. trade deficit, sends jobs overseas, and drives up prices at the pump. The bill also improves regulations on the construction of nuclear power plants and extends tax credits for wind energy production for an additional 10 years. ###
06.10.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act. “The housing market meltdown exposed dangerous weaknesses in the credit rating industry, demonstrating a clear need for reform," said Congressman McHenry. "By bringing greater transparency to the market, this bill will give investors crucial information they need to make sound financial decisions.” As mortgage products were packaged and sold as securities during the boom in the housing market, the credit rating industry consistently gave undeservedly high ratings to many of these securities. In the aftermath of the housing market collapse, it is clear that these imprudent ratings exacerbated the severity of the crash. Now, there is wide agreement that the credit rating agencies need to institute reforms to their business practices. Last week, the three major credit-rating agencies - Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch - announced their intentions to reform their security-selling practices. In the coming days, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will propose rules aimed at creating greater transparency in the credit rating industry. To strengthen that effort, Congressman McHenry introduced the Credit Rating Agency Transparency and Disclosure Act. The Congressman’s plan requires nationally recognized credit rating agencies to provide additional disclosures with respect to the rating of structured securities. Specifically the bill will do the following: • Ensure that issuers and originators are providing credit rating agencies with adequate information on the assets underlying a structured security. • Require credit rating agencies to institute procedures for getting data from issuers and originators concerning the procedures employed to attest to the data’s veracity and the fraud detection capabilities surrounding the process. • Require credit rating agencies to disclose in a central database the historical default rates of all classes of financial products they have rated. With the enactment of this legislation, investors would have greater confidence in the quality of structured security ratings, resulting in a healthier market for consumers. ###
04.30.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs will open the Hickory Community Based Outpatient Clinic on June 4, 2008. “For years, we’ve been working hard to ensure that Western North Carolina veterans get the quality, local healthcare they deserve, and I’m excited this long-overdue facility will open soon,” said Congressman McHenry. “This healthcare clinic will provide roughly 5,500 Western North Carolina veterans with a wide range of services, including primary care, mental healthcare, and eye care.” “I will continue working hard to see this project through to completion. The 10,000 square foot clinic that’s opening on June 4 is a good first step in a two-part process that will eventually result in the establishment of a 20,000 square foot permanent clinic in the Hickory area. My office is working with the Veterans Administration to ensure that the permanent facility is up and running as soon as possible.” A ribbon cutting ceremony will be held at the Hickory CBOC on May 29 at 10:00 AM. Following the opening ceremony, those in attendance will be able to tour the new facility and take part in a question and answer session with VA officials. The tour will include a preview of the CBOC’s advanced video conferencing system, which will enable healthcare personnel to improve patients’ care by conducting medical consultations with off-site experts. Located at 1170 Fairgrove Church Road in Hickory, the CBOC will provide healthcare services from 8:00 AM until 4:30 PM Monday through Friday, and will be staffed by 39 full-time VA healthcare personnel, including 5 primary care physicians. The 10,000 square foot interim clinic is phase one of a two-phase process that Congressman McHenry pressed the VA to initiate when he brought then-Secretary of the VA Jim Nicholson into his office in last year. Congressman McHenry is already working with VA officials to implement phase two of this process, which will bring a 20,000 square foot healthcare facility to the Hickory Area. Currently, the larger, permanent facility is scheduled to be completed by May of 2010. The Hickory CBOC’s service area includes Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Iredell, Lincoln, and Wilkes Counties. Veterans in neighboring counties wishing to receive care at this facility are encouraged to make arrangements with the Veterans Administration. Many veterans in the CBOC’s service area have been pre-screened and either have been or will be sent a letter from the VA with advice regarding enrollment. Veterans may call (704) 638-9000, ext. 2533 for more information. Veterans and their families who have further questions about the CBOC or issues with the Veterans Administration may also contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office toll-free at 1-800-477-2576.
04.23.2008	This week, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) welcomed representatives from the Tenth District Chambers of Commerce to Washington, D.C. for a series of meetings with White House officials, members of Congress, and economic development experts. Representatives from all ten Tenth District Chambers of Commerce were invited to the Second Annual Chamber fly-in, which provides local business, government, education, and healthcare leaders with an opportunity to discuss and generate economic development strategies for Western North Carolina. “Given the economic challenges we’re facing, it is critical we have a coordinated strategy in place to drive economic growth and create good-paying jobs,” said Congressman McHenry. “By bringing together local leaders in business, government, education, and healthcare to discuss these issues with national leaders and economic development experts, we’re able to determine the best ways to build the Western North Carolina economy.” According to Shirley Hise of the Mitchell County Chamber of Commerce, “This event is a great opportunity to network with other chambers as well as to learn what resources might be available at the federal level.” On April 9, 2008 Congressman McHenry was presented the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Spirit of Enterprise Award, a prestigious award honoring lawmakers who are dedicated to economic growth and job creation. Congressman McHenry has received the award every year of his public service. Speakers at the Chamber event (in order of appearance) include: Tuesday, April 22 • House Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) • Mr. Steven Tuminaro, Director of Legislative Affairs for NeighborWorks America • House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) • Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) • Mr. David Spooner, U.S. Department of Commerce • Mr. Jonathan Felts, Deputy Assistant to the President and White House Director of Political Affairs • Ms. Missy Branson, Deputy Associate Administrator of Congressional Affairs at the Environmental Protection Agency Wednesday, April 23 • Ms. Kelly Hunt, U.S. Chamber of Commerce • Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-MI), Ranking Member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence • House Republican Chief Deputy Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) • Gov. Randall Kroszner, Federal Reserve Board • Rep. John Mica (R-FL), Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee • Under Secretary Robert Steel, U.S. Department of Treasury • Rep. Heath Shuler (D-NC) ###
04.23.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs will hold a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Hickory Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) on May 29. “The opening of this healthcare facility brings us one step closer to providing Western North Carolina veterans the quality, local healthcare they deserve, and I’m thrilled it will be up and running ahead of schedule.” Located at 1170 Fairgrove Church Road in Hickory, the 10,000 square foot CBOC will provide primary care, mental health, and optometry services from 8:00 AM until 4:30 PM Monday through Friday for Veterans in Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Iredell, Lincoln and Wilkes Counties. Veterans in neighboring counties wishing to receive care at this facility are encouraged to make arrangements with the Veterans Administration. The Hickory Clinic will eventually serve roughly 5,500 local veterans, and will be staffed by 39 full-time VA healthcare personnel, including five primary care physicians, under the supervision of the Salisbury VA Medical Center. VA officials caution that the exact date of the Clinic’s opening has not yet been determined, noting that it could occur slightly before or after the ribbon-cutting ceremony. When the lease for the Hickory CBOC was signed in November of 2007, officials estimated it would open around August 2008. Congressman McHenry has pressed the VA repeatedly to expedite the facility’s construction. As part of this effort, he and Senators Dole and Burr (R-NC) sent a letter to then VA Secretary Nicholson in May 2007 requesting detailed information about plans for the clinic. Then, in June, Congressman McHenry gained a strong ally in his fight for the Hickory CBOC when he went to the House floor to engage in a lengthy colloquy about the Clinic with Chet Edwards (D-TX) who is Chairman of the House Appropriations Military Construction and Veterans Administration Subcommittee. Chairman Edwards lauded Congressman McHenry’s efforts on behalf of Western North Carolina Veterans, and said, “I believe the gentleman has a right to get a response from the Department and I would encourage the gentleman to continue working with the Senators from North Carolina in asking the Administration to provide a response to your inquiry.” Following his discussion with Rep. Edwards, Congressman McHenry brought then-VA Secretary Nicholson into his Washington office to demand an explanation for the delay and strongly encourage him to take immediate action to expedite the CBOC’s construction. Shortly thereafter, the VA announced that it would pursue a two-phased approach to construct the Hickory Clinic in order to more quickly begin the provision of quality services to local Veterans. In phase one, for which the ribbon cutting ceremony will be held on May 29, a 10,000 square foot interim clinic will be established while a permanent site is located and constructed. Many veterans in the CBOC’s service area have been pre-screened and either have been or will be sent a letter from the VA with advice regarding enrollment. Veterans may call (704) 638-9000, ext. 2533 for more information. Director of the VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network Daniel F. Hoffmann noted, “We are excited about the opportunity to improve access to outpatient care for veterans in this area of western North Carolina.” Salisbury VA Medical Center Director, Carolyn L. Adams, added, “The Hickory facility will allow us to expand our clinical services to those veterans who otherwise might have to travel to Salisbury or Asheville for their primary care. We look forward to providing excellent service at this clinic since our veterans deserve nothing less in thanks for their service to our Nation.” In phase two, which is scheduled to be completed by May of 2010, a facility larger than 20,000 square feet will be built to provide a range of healthcare services to more than 10,000 local veterans. This facility will also be located in the Hickory area, and there will be no lapse in service during the transition from Phase 1 to Phase 2. Veterans currently enrolled at the Salisbury VA Clinic who live in the Hickory area will be given priority for enrollment at the interim CBOC. Salisbury VA Clinic personnel will review its list of veterans currently enrolled, and will then inform those veterans of that option. The VA Medical Center in Asheville will take a similar approach in working with veterans enrolled there. Other veterans who wish to receive care at the Hickory Clinic must register with the Salisbury or Asheville VAMCs. This may be accomplished by phone, letter, e-mail, or on-line at www.va.gov, www.salisbury.va.gov, or www.asheville.va.gov. For registration information, veterans may call the Health Administration Service Office in Salisbury at (704) 638-9000 or toll-free at 1-800-469-8262, extension 2500 or the Enrollment Office in Asheville at (828) 298-7911, extension 5030. Veterans and their families who have further questions about the CBOC or issues with the Veterans Administration may also contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office toll-free at 1-800-477-2576.
03.27.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that Cleveland and Rutherford County Schools have been awarded a $1.66 million grant over five years from the U.S. Department of Education to enhance American History education for local students. “As the saying goes, those who forget history are doomed to repeat it,” said Congressman McHenry. “It is important that our students have a solid understanding of the great history of this nation, and this grant will give our teachers the tools they need to make that happen.” The funding comes from the Department of Education’s Teaching American History grant program. Over the next three years, $999,483 of the grant will be distributed to Cleveland and Rutherford County Schools. The remainder of the grant will be awarded over the following two years, and is contingent on the success of the program. “This grant gives us a powerful opportunity to introduce traditional American history to elementary and middle school teachers, which will allow them to explore a lot of the hands-on history that we’ve been able to provide our high school teachers. We hope the end result is increased student achievement and appreciation for American history,” said Robert Brown, a Crest High School social studies teacher and Teaching American History Grant Director. The funding will be used to provide intensive training for elementary and middle school history teachers in Cleveland and Rutherford County schools. Approximately 30 teachers in these school districts will be chosen each year to participate in two-day seminars featuring history education experts from across the country. The program is designed to provide teachers with new knowledge and techniques to advance history education, and culminates in a week-long trip to various important historical locations for on-site training. This is the third such grant awarded to Cleveland and Rutherford County Schools in the last four years. They received an $866,441 grant in 2004 and another totaling $999,387 in 2006. According to Mr. Brown, the students whose teachers have participated in this program have demonstrated extraordinary academic achievement to date. ###
03.18.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) released the following statement after the Supreme Court heard arguments for District of Columbia v. Heller, a landmark case that will have a major impact on the right to bear arms in the United States. “The right to bear arms is a basic, fundamental right in this country. I hope the Supreme Court will take this opportunity to make clear that this right is guaranteed to every individual citizen by the Second Amendment. It is immoral for any government to deprive people of the right to defend themselves and their families.” In keeping with his strong support for Second Amendment rights, Congressman McHenry co-signed an amicus curiae brief submitted to the Court by several lawmakers urging protection of the right to bear arms. The Supreme Court has not conclusively interpreted the Second Amendment since its ratification in 1791. The amendment reads: “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” The basic issue for the justices in Heller is whether the amendment protects an individual’s right to own guns or whether that right is somehow tied to service in a state militia. Since 1976, Washington, D.C. has enforced the most prohibitive gun ban of any American city, when the City Council banned handguns and required rifles and shotguns to be registered, stored unloaded, and either locked or disassembled. In the Heller case, residents of the District sued the city on grounds that the restrictive gun ban infringes on their Constitutional freedoms. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ruled last March that the District’s gun bans violate the Constitution. At the time, the majority opinion said that the D.C. gun ban, “amounts to a complete prohibition on the lawful use of handguns for self-defense. As such, we hold it unconstitutional.” The last Supreme Court ruling on the topic came in 1939 in U.S. v. Miller, which involved a sawed-off shotgun. Constitutional scholars disagree over what that case means but agree it did not squarely answer the question of individual versus collective rights.
03.11.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) signed a petition designed to force an up or down vote on the SAVE Act, a border security and immigration enforcement bill with 141 co-sponsors that is being blocked by Democrat leadership. “For 126 days, Nancy Pelosi and the Democrat leadership have blocked, stalled, and delayed this bipartisan bill. It’s long past time the federal government secured our borders and started enforcing the law, and they least they can do is let us have an up or down vote on it.” “The SAVE Act will put 8,000 more guards on the border, strengthen workplace verification systems, and help stem the tide of illegal immigration into our country. Sadly Nancy Pelosi prefers amnesty and taxpayer giveaways to border security and the rule of law, and is keeping us from having a vote on it.” “It doesn’t matter who wrote the bill or who gets credit for it. What matters is that we get the border secured as soon as possible.” Introduced on November 6, 2007 by Heath Shuler (D-NC), the SAVE Act has 141 co-sponsors, including 47 centrist Democrats and 94 Republicans. Congressman McHenry is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. The bill attacks the problem of illegal immigration through a two-pronged approach: border security and workplace and interior enforcement of immigration laws. If enacted, the SAVE Act would add 8,000 more Border Patrol agents to border security operations, and encourage the recruitment of former Armed Services personnel to work along the border. It would also increase the use of technology to improve border security by developing and implementing a plan to use military equipment at the border and outfitting Border Patrol agents with advanced surveillance and communications equipment. To aid interior enforcement of immigration laws, the SAVE Act tightens worker verification standards and expands the E-Verify System, a system that helps employers quickly and efficiently determine whether or not a worker is in the country legally. Under this plan, all companies with 250 or more employees would be required to comply with the E-Verify System immediately, and smaller companies will be phased in over the next four years. The Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus, an organization devoted to stopping illegal immigration, has endorsed the proposal, saying, “The [SAVE Act] offers the best chance for true bipartisan immigration reform without amnesty.” But because Speaker Pelosi has refused to move the bill forward in the legislative process, Republicans decided at a Conference meeting this morning to file a discharge petition, a rare procedural motion that will force a vote on the bill once it has been signed by 218 Members of the House. ###
03.05.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) issued the following statement at the conclusion of the House Budget Committee’s mark-up of the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget. The Committee began its mark-up at 10:30 AM Wednesday and finished at 12:30 AM Thursday. During debate, Republicans offered thirty separate amendments to improve the plan on a range of federal issues. Twenty-nine of those thirty amendments were defeated in a straight party-line vote. “It goes to show just how broken Washington is that over the course of a fourteen hour debate on the budget, not a single Democrat would stand up to their liberal leadership and vote for a single amendment offered by Republicans. We worked hard to have a frank discussion and improve a spending plan that covers everything the government touches. And it is unfortunate that the Democrats on this committee unanimously chose partisanship over working towards fiscal responsibility, adequate veterans funding, cleaning up the earmark process, protecting retirement security, providing tax relief and keeping illegal aliens from receiving taxpayer-funded benefits.” Congressman McHenry introduced or co-sponsored five amendments to the budget: 1) Protecting American families from a $683 billion tax hike – the largest in American history – by making permanent the tax relief of 2001 and 2003. “In a time of economic uncertainty – a time marked by rising gas prices and skyrocketing healthcare costs – it is absolutely immoral for Congress to take up a budget that calls for the single largest tax hike in American history. Sadly, that’s exactly what this Democrat budget does with its $683 billion tax increase.” “Under the Democrat tax hike, the average taxpayer in North Carolina will be forced to pay an additional $2,672 to the government. That is unacceptable. The people of Western North Carolina sent me to Washington to change business as usual and stop government waste, not make it worse. And that’s why I can’t support this budget.” “I believe government can and should do more with less. We should cut wasteful and duplicative programs, and practice responsible budgeting just like American families. When the family budget gets tight, you cut spending – and Congress should do the same.” Because Congressman McHenry’s amendment was defeated on a straight party-line vote, under this Democrat budget: • Some 116 million taxpayers will see an average tax increase of more than $1,800 per year. • More than 6 million low-income individuals and couples who currently pay no taxes will no longer be exempt. • A family of four earning $50,000 will see their taxes increase by $2,100. • Approximately 48 million married couples will face an average tax increase of $3,000 per year. • Low-income families with one or two children will no longer be eligible for the refundable child tax credit in 2011. • Roughly 12 million single women with children will see their taxes increase by $1,100 per year. • About 18 million seniors will be subjected to tax increases of more than $2,100 per year. 2) Establishing a “firewall” for veterans’ funding that prohibits money budgeted for veterans from being used as an offset during the appropriations process for other purposes. “Later on in the year we’ll move from the budget and on to the business of appropriations. When that happens, we need to be completely clear about one thing: you can’t take money from the veterans and give it away for something else.” “You can’t use the money that funds healthcare programs for those who lay their lives on the line to defend America in order to pay for another wasteful government program.” “This amendment lays down a firewall for veterans funding – a clear mandate: veterans are not to be treated like a poker chip; they are not to be bargained with. We must fully fund veterans’ care.” 3) Increasing funding for veterans’ programs by nearly $1 billion by using money allocated to “airdropped” earmarks – those inserted into spending bills without debate during secret conference committees. “Commitment is a two-way street. When a fellow citizen commits himself to the line of fire to defend us – to defend our lives, our freedoms – we must commit to giving him the care and treatment he deserves when he comes home.” “This amendment backs up our commitment. It provides veterans with an additional $1 billion in funding to give them the quality healthcare they deserve – the quality of care they’ve earned.” 4) Prohibiting illegal aliens from receiving benefits from the earned income tax credit. “When it comes to the taxpayers’ money and illegal aliens, one thing should be crystal clear: if you enter this country illegally, you don’t get a penny of the taxpayers’ money. None. Zero. Under any circumstances. Ever. Period.” 5) Prohibiting tax hikes on pension and other retirement funds. “We should encourage retirement savings, not penalize it with repressive taxation. Retirement savings account for nearly 40% of all household financial assets in the United States. When you raise taxes on investments, you’re dealing a serious blow to retirement security in America. You’re attacking the financial well-being of millions of retirees and people who are living on fixed incomes.” ###
03.04.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that Communities in Schools of Caldwell County will receive a $192,237 grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The initial allotment of $192,237 is expected to continue for three years, representing an overall investment of over $576,000 in Caldwell County Schools. “It’s great to see this funding coming to Caldwell County,” said Congressman McHenry. “This program will be a tremendous asset to the students of Caldwell County, and I’m pleased that the Department of Education agreed with me when I asked them to invest in it. I know Debbie Eller put a lot of effort into this, and she should be commended for her hard work on behalf of our students.” “Education is the key to economic success. To continue rebuilding the economy in Western North Carolina, we’ve got to make sure that our students get a solid educational foundation, and this funding will help ensure they get it.” Communities in Schools of Caldwell County will use the funding to create after-school programs at Colletsville Elementary, Happy Valley Elementary, Kings Creek Accelerated Elementary, and Oak Hill Elementary. In addition to mentoring, the program will provide students with character education, life skills training, and academic support. “When I first heard that we got this amount of funding, I was kind of in shock,” said Communities In Schools of Caldwell County Executive Director Debbie Eller. “It will be great for students to have this mentoring program available to them. I’m really excited about what this means for the children and their families. The academic support will give our students a boost, and the program will provide families with a safe, constructive after-school environment for their kids.” As the head of the Communities in Schools program, Eller pursued the funding through the Department of Education’s Mentoring Program, which is a competitive grant program that funds local educational agencies and non-profit community-based organizations that promote school-based mentoring programs. To receive the funding, applicants must serve children in need in grades four through eight who reside in rural areas or troubled environments. Congressman McHenry’s staff was in communication with Eller as she worked to secure the grant, and on May 30, 2007, Congressman McHenry sent a letter to the Department of Education urging approval of Eller’s grant request. In the letter, Congressman McHenry said, “I firmly believe the proposed program will increase academic achievement, improve interpersonal relationships of those that interact with the students, and decrease both the dropout rate and juvenile delinquency in a region that has experienced substantial economic distress and seen a marked increase in gang activity.”
02.29.2008	Today, Brigadier General James H. Trogdon, III present Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) with the National Guard’s Charles Dick Medal of Merit at an award ceremony in Shelby. “I accept this award on behalf of the men and women of Western North Carolina who put themselves in harm’s way to defend America,” said Congressman McHenry. “What I do in Congress pales in comparison to the valor and sacrifice of our soldiers and their families, and I want to take this opportunity to honor them for their dedication to keeping America safe.” The Charles Dick Medal of Merit was established in 1988 and is designed to recognize contributions to the National Guard by elected officials at the state and national levels. To receive the Award, an individual must have distinguished himself as an ardent supporter the National Guard. The award is not given just for exceptional performance of normal duties. The support of the individual must have a lasting effect on the future of the National Guard. The positive effect and results of the act should outlast the individual’s tenure in office. According to the North Carolina National Guard, “Representative McHenry has been and continues to be a dedicated supporter of the North Carolina National Guard and advocate for the National Guard of the United States.” “Representative McHenry’s contributions to the National Guard have significantly benefited the North Carolina National Guard and will have a lasting effect on the future of the National Guard of the United States long after his tenure as United States Representative for the 10th District of North Carolina.” The medal is named in honor of Major General Charles Dick, President of the National Guard Association of the United States from 1902 to 1909, a Major General in the Ohio National Guard, a Congressman and later a Senator. Dick was responsible for the passage of the Dick Acts of 1903 and 1908 that established the foundation of the modern National Guard. A graduate of the elite Army War College, Brigadier General Trogdon is a 26 year veteran of the National Guard. ###
02.22.2008	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) presented Caldwell County with $352,000 in federal funding at a presentation ceremony in Lenoir this morning. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Law Enforcement Technology program, and will be used to enable the County’s participation in North Carolina’s Voice Interoperability Plan for Emergency Responders (VIPER). “An efficient emergency response depends on rapid communication and coordination,” said Congressman McHenry. “With the VIPER program in place, the people of Caldwell County can be confident their fire, rescue, and law enforcement personnel will be working together effectively during times of need.” “I remember two years ago when Sheriff Gary Clark first mentioned the need for this system to me,” said Congressman McHenry. “Sheriff Alan Jones participated in that meeting. Now two years later we are seeing the completion of that vision. Sheriff Alan Jones has continued working to implement this important system and is giving us a sheriff's department we can all be proud of.” Caldwell County requested federal support for this program, and Congressman McHenry secured it through the Commerce, Science, and Justice Appropriations Act of 2008, a bill that was included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2008. “The funding the Congressman was able to get for us will enable the county to participate in the VIPER program without having to further strain our resources,” said Caldwell County Commissioner Faye Higgins. “This is a big help in our effort to protect the citizens of Caldwell County by ensuring our emergency response and law enforcement agencies can communicate effectively.” VIPER is designed to synthesize communications capabilities between law enforcement and fire and rescue agencies from multiple jurisdictions. It provides temporary, on-demand channels of communication to emergency response personnel, which allows numerous agencies to coordinate disaster responses quickly and effectively. “This funding is a tremendous help to the VIPER project and a great thing for Caldwell County,” said Caldwell County Sheriff Alan Jones. “We have a harder time communicating in some of the outlying areas of the county, but with the VIPER system in place we’ll be able to communicate clearly and effectively with fire and rescue personnel throughout the county.” Caldwell County, in partnership with the North Carolina Highway Patrol, is building a five-site radio system that will enhance current VHF radio paging capabilities for fire and rescue squads. The County requested this funding to assist with the purchase of subscriber unites (mobile and portable communications devices) for the 800 MHz system.
02.14.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that he will host a Homeownership Promotion and Foreclosure Prevention Seminar on February 19, 2008 at the Red Cross Headquarters in Shelby from 6:00 PM – 8:00 PM. Millions of Americans will be affected by the nationwide downturn in the housing sector. According to the North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts, more than 45,000 small businesses and households faced foreclosure in North Carolina last year, including nearly 5,190 in the ten counties comprising the Tenth Congressional District. Those numbers are projected to rise in the coming year. The seminar is designed to give Western North Carolina families an opportunity to receive expert advice on a range of housing issues. It will begin with a roundtable discussion of housing issues, featuring Congressman McHenry, the HOPE NOW Alliance and NeighborWorks America, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Legal Aid of North Carolina, rural development specialists from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Cleveland County Community Development Corporation. Attendees will then be able to visit booths set up by participating organizations to receive personal, private advice on their particular housing concerns. “In these tough economic times, it is important for people to know the options available to them. And that is especially true when it comes to housing, which is often the single largest investment most families make. I am pleased to partner with these organizations to bring this kind of assistance to Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry.” “This seminar will be an invaluable resource for homeowners and those looking to purchase a home. My goal is to help families in Western North Carolina realize the American dream of homeownership.” Congressman McHenry held a similar housing seminar in Lenoir on January 7. There, more than 70 people received housing advice. On November 15th, 2007, legislation including Congressman McHenry’s Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act passed in the House. McHenry’s plan requires lending institutions to provide borrowers with a simple, one-page summary of their mortgage obligations. At the time, Congressman McHenry stated, “It is clear that borrowers need to be presented with a full disclosure of their mortgage obligations. My plan empowers consumers by introducing transparency to the process. As a former Realtor, I know firsthand how confusing the legal jargon can be on home loans, and this will help people make sound financial decisions for their families.” Organizations participating in the housing seminar include: · HOPE NOW Alliance – An organization of counselors, servicers, investors, and other mortgage market participants dedicated to helping homeowners cope with housing costs · NeighborWorks America – A national nonprofit organization that provides financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts · U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – A federal agency devoted to increasing homeownership, supporting community development, and increasing access to affordable housing · Legal Aid of North Carolina – A non-profit organization that provides legal advice to homeowners · U.S. Department of Agriculture – A federal agency whose mission includes rural development and helping citizens of rural areas with housing · The Cleveland County Economic Development Corporation – An organization dedicated to fostering economic growth in Cleveland County
01.29.2008	Today, the Family Research Council (FRC) and Dr. James Dobson’s Focus on the Family named Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) a “True Blue” Member of Congress for his unwavering commitment to family values. The True Blue award is given annually to Members of Congress who have worked hard to defend traditional family values, faith, and freedom. FRC presented Congressman McHenry the award for his perfect voting record on family values at a ceremony in the Rayburn House Office Building this morning. “Traditional family values are the bedrock of American society,” said Congressman McHenry. “Family values, the values of Western North Carolina, are frequently under attack in Washington, and I am honored to be recognized by the Family Research Council for defending them.” FRC based its decision on Congressman McHenry’s consistent pro-life and pro-family voting record during the first session of the 110th Congress, and took the following votes into consideration: -- Defending Restrictions on Funding International Abortion Groups -- Human Cloning Prohibition -- Against Embryonic Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act -- Against Thought Crimes Act -- Protect Abstinence Program for HIV/AIDs Prevention -- Prohibit Funding D.C. Needle Exchange Program -- Against Funding D.C. Gay Marriage Amendment -- Restrict Funding Planned Parenthood Amendment “Congressman McHenry has been a consistent, stalwart ally of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “He is to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I applaud Congressman McHenry for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year. Values voters should be encouraged by his commitment to protecting and strengthening the family.” ###
01.08.2008	Yesterday, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) hosted a Homeownership Promotion and Foreclosure Prevention Seminar at the J.E. Broyhill Center in Lenoir, NC. Over 70 people attended the event, which was designed to provide Western North Carolinians with assistance and resources needed to cope with a national downturn in the housing market. “A legislative fix could play a role in helping the housing sector in the future, but it’s more important to make sure people who are experiencing trouble with their mortgages have the information and resources they need right now,” said Congressman McHenry. “I’m thankful for the help of all the people and organizations who participated in this event, and think we made some significant strides in getting assistance to families that need it.” Expert panelists, including Congressman McHenry and representatives from the HOPE NOW Alliance and NeighborWorks America, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Legal Aid of North Carolina, the Western Piedmont Council of Governments, and the Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation, began the seminar with a roundtable discussion on a range of housing issues. One attendee, Lenoir Realtor Kenneth Lee of Alice Reid Realty, asked the panelists why Realtors weren’t more heavily involved in providing assistance to those having trouble with their mortgage obligations. “There are a lot of real estate agents out there who can get things done for people; in spite of the misconception that some people think they’re only interested in a sale. We’re often the first point of contact when foreclosures are eminent, and we have a real interest in the well-being of our clients,” said Lee. “I think the Congressman has a good approach, and the format was a good idea,” he added. Another attendee, Marshall Hiatt of Hickory, suggested to the panel that banks should provide housing assistance information to those who have been delinquent in mortgage repayment. The panelists largely agreed with Mr. Hiatt’s proposal, and noted that members of the HOPE NOW Alliance have recently begun pursuing that option. Following the opening roundtable discussion, attendees were invited to booths set up by the panelists where they were able to ask personal questions about their housing circumstances. There, many received important information about how to address their particular concerns. “People are frustrated because they don’t know where to go for assistance,” said Beverly Clark, a panelist and Executive Director of the The Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation, a Morganton, NC based organization dedicated to local economic development. “There was a great need to fill that void, and we helped accomplish that with this seminar.” According to Caldwell County Board of Commissioners Chairman Faye Higgins, “I heard several people comment that they didn’t know these assistance organizations were available to help them, and it’s great that Congressman McHenry was able to bring them all together in one place to help those in need. To me, that’s a great service to the community.” Chairman Higgins also noted the experience of one attendee in particular who benefited from the event. “I remember one lady who was in school and working, but behind on her mortgage payments. She might have ended up losing her home, but we had people at the seminar who could help her.” Millions of Americans will be affected by the nationwide downturn in the housing sector. According to the North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts, more than 45,000 small businesses and households faced foreclosure in North Carolina last year, including nearly 5,190 in the ten counties comprising the Tenth Congressional District. Those numbers are projected to rise in the coming year. On November 15th, 2007, legislation featuring Congressman McHenry’s Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act passed in the House. McHenry’s plan requires lending institutions to provide borrowers with a simple, one-page summary of their mortgage obligations. At the time, Congressman McHenry stated, “It is clear that borrowers need to be presented with a full disclosure of their mortgage obligations. My plan empowers consumers by introducing transparency to the process. As a former Realtor, I know firsthand how confusing the legal jargon can be on home loans, and this will help people make sound financial decisions for their families.” Organizations participating in yesterdays’ seminar include: • HOPE NOW Alliance – An organization of counselors, servicers, investors, and other mortgage market participants dedicated to helping homeowners cope with housing costs • NeighborWorks America – A national nonprofit organization that provides financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization efforts • U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – A federal agency devoted to increasing homeownership, supporting community development, and increasing access to affordable housing • Legal Aid of North Carolina – A nonprofit membership organization dedicated to providing legal advice to homeowners. • The Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation – A Morganton, NC based organization dedicated to local economic development • Western Piedmont Council of Governments (COG) – A regional planning organization serving Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, and Catawba Counties. The COG carries out the Home Protection Pilot Program, which helps with mortgage payments for those attending school or receiving TRA/TRR benefits. ###
01.07.2008	Today, the North Carolina chapters of the American Legion and Marine Corps League recognized Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) for his work on behalf of Western North Carolina Veterans. McHenry, who repeatedly pushed the Veterans Administration (VA) to expedite construction of a veteran’s healthcare clinic in Hickory, was presented certificates of appreciation from both organizations at his Hickory District Office. “Because of the understanding that medical care and treatment of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines is a delayed cost of war, members of the military services of North Carolina wish to express their sincere appreciation for the time, effort, and leadership that Congressman McHenry has shown in Washington,” said Mike Mooney of the Marine Corps League. “I’m honored and humbled to receive this recognition from the American Legion and Marine Corps League,” said Congressman McHenry. “America’s veterans deserve our utmost appreciation and respect for their heroic sacrifices in defense of our nation. Making sure Western North Carolina veterans have the quality care they deserve is a top priority.” Following numerous official inquiries about the status of a proposed veterans’ healthcare clinic in Hickory, Congressman McHenry brought then-Secretary of the Veterans Administration Jim Nicholson into his Washington, D.C. office to demand a full status report on the project and request that the VA expedite its construction. Shortly thereafter, the VA announced a two-phased approach for providing Western North Carolina veterans with quality, local healthcare. Phase one, which is scheduled to be completed this August, will bring a 10,000 square foot interim clinic to the Hickory area while a larger, permanent facility is under construction. Phase two of the project – a 20,000 square foot facility capable of providing a range of healthcare services to more than 10,000 local veterans – is slated to be completed by May of 2010. Seventeen representatives of the American Legion and the Marine Corps League attended this morning’s event, where Donald Smith, Commandant of the Marine Corps League, and Richard Neville, Department Commander of the American Legion presented Congressman McHenry with certificates of appreciation from their respective organizations. More information about the Hickory veterans’ clinic can be found at: /News/DocumentPrint.aspx?DocumentID=80729 ###
01.04.2008	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that he will host a Homeownership Promotion and Foreclosure Prevention Seminar on January 7 at the J.E. Broyhill Civic Center in Lenoir from 6:00 PM – 8:00 PM.Millions of Americans will be impacted by the nationwide downturn in the housing sector. According to the North Carolina Administrative Office of the Courts, more than 45,000 small businesses and households faced foreclosure in North Carolina last year, including nearly 5,190 in the ten counties comprising the Tenth Congressional District. Those numbers are projected to rise in the coming year.The seminar is designed to give Western North Carolina families an opportunity to receive expert advice on a range of housing issues. It will begin with a roundtable discussion of housing issues, featuring Congressman McHenry, the HOPE NOW Alliance and NeighborWorks America, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the North Carolina Housing Coalition, and the Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation.Attendees will then be able to visit booths set up by participating organizations to receive personal, private advice on their particular housing concerns.“As a realtor, I know that buying and owning a home can be a complicated process. Given the recent turmoil in the housing market, I know that many folks could use more information about what’s going on, and a confidential place to discuss their own situations. I am pleased to partner with these organizations to bring this kind of assistance to Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry.“This seminar will be an invaluable resource for homeowners and those looking to purchase a home. My goal is to help every family in Western North Carolina realize the American dream of homeownership.”Participating organizations include:HOPE NOW Alliance – An organization of counselors, servicers, investors, and other mortgage market participants dedicated to helping homeowners cope with housing costsNeighborWorks America – A national nonprofit organization that provides financial support, technical assistance, and training for community-based revitalization effortsU.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – A federal agency devoted to increasing homeownership, supporting community development, and increasing access to affordable housingNorth Carolina Housing Coalition – A nonprofit membership organization working to provide quality housing opportunities for low-income North CaroliniansThe Olive Hill Community Economic Development Corporation – A Morganton, NC based organization dedicated to local economic development###
12.19.2007	Congressmen Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced the U.S. Congress approved $97,000 in funding for the Appalachian State University Center at the Caldwell Community College and Technical Institute (CCC&TI) located in Hudson, NC. The funding is included in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2008 (H.R. 2764), which passed the House July 19, 2007. The Appalachian Center, which offers training and support for local teachers, including undergraduate education degrees, is a partnership program between Appalachian State University and CCC&TI designed to enhance education resources available to local residents. “Education is the key to economic growth, and this funding will improve education opportunities across Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry. “By strengthening educator training, this will help provide our region with a pool of talented teachers to fill our classroom needs.” The Appalachian Center is the product of an arrangement reached between Appalachian State University (ASU) and CCC&TI in June of 2003, which was announced alongside a $1 million start-up grant from the Broyhill Family Foundation. H.R. 2764 passed in the House today and now awaits the President’s signature. ###
12.19.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced the U.S. House of Representatives approved $146,000 in funding for the North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies, a workforce development program based in Hickory. The funding was included in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2008 (H.R.2764). “An educated workforce is essential for economic growth, and this funding will provide a big boost to worker training in Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Engineering Center is a real asset to our region and a great resource for workers in industrial fields.” The North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies is designed to serve the workforce needs of existing and emerging industries in Western North Carolina. Product development, business process improvement, and technical engineering programs comprise its core curriculum. The Center also collaborates with the business community to determine future programs and initiatives based on the needs of those employers. “The Engineering Center is a great example of education, business, and community leaders teaming up to create economic development opportunities for our region.” The Engineering Center works in close coordination with the Future Forward Economic Alliance, an Economic Development Administration-sponsored entity working to create a comprehensive economic development strategy for 12 counties in Western North Carolina. Future Forward worked with local business and government leaders to raise start-up money for the Center and acquire a 55,200 square foot facility for it. Western Carolina University (WCU) works in partnership with the Center on its degree programs, which will eventually become part of the University of North Carolina System, making it the first such institution in the Tenth Congressional District. H.R. 2764 now awaits the President’s signature. ###
12.19.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced the U.S. Congress approved $352,000 in funding for the Caldwell County Interoperability Project, which will help the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office upgrade its communications systems. The funding was included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2008 (H.R. 2764).“These funds will help ensure that our first responders have the resources they need to keep Caldwell County safe,” said Congressman McHenry. “In emergency situations, being able to communicate effectively is often the key to a successful response, and this funding will provide the Sheriff’s Office with the tools they need to do that.”The additional federal funding will enable the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office to participate in North Carolina’s Voice Interoperability Plan for Emergency Responders (VIPER), a program designed to provide better communications capabilities between law enforcement and fire and rescue agencies.“Congressman McHenry has done a great job for everybody on many different local issues since he got into office; and this is just another example of him being effective where we really need it,” said Caldwell County Sheriff Alan Jones. “To be able to get this much funding for a critically important program is just fantastic. I’m glad we’re able to continue expanding the VIPER program, and very thankful for Congressman McHenry’s hard work on our behalf.”Caldwell County, in partnership with the North Carolina Highway Patrol, is building a five-site radio system that will enhance current VHF radio paging capabilities for fire and rescue units and support the VIPER system throughout the County. The Sheriff’s Office will use these funds to purchase mobile communications units for that radio system.H.R. 2764 now awaits the President’s signature.###
11.20.2007	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that the Veterans Administration (VA) has signed a lease for the future location of a Veterans’ Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Hickory, North Carolina.The Clinic will be located at 1170 Fairgrove Church Road in Hickory. It will be staffed by thirty-six full-time personnel under the supervision of the Salisbury VA Clinic, including five primary care physicians and other specialists in mental health and eye care. “This is great news and a significant step forward in delivering a long overdue promise to Western North Carolina veterans,” said Congressman McHenry. “Since day one, I’ve been fighting to get this clinic up and running for our veterans. I’m thrilled the VA has signed the lease.”“The brave men and women of America’s Armed Services deserve the finest care and services when they return home, and our veterans have waited far too long for this clinic. I’m going to continue to keep a very close eye on its progress to ensure there isn’t further unnecessary delay.”The interim clinic will serve veterans living in Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Iredell, Lincoln and Wilkes counties. The clinic’s initial enrollment will include 5,400 patients for primary care. Since his first election, Congressman McHenry has worked hard to build on the efforts of his predecessor, former Congressman Cass Ballenger, to expedite the construction of a CBOC in Hickory, the population center of the Tenth Congressional District.“Having hauled as many veterans up to Oteen [Veterans’ Hospital in Buncombe County] as I have, and recognizing what lousy service they got, I’m glad somebody’s taking charge to make sure the local veterans get the care they deserve,” said former Congressman Ballenger.Congressman McHenry has pressed the VA repeatedly to expedite the facility’s construction, including seven separate direct communications in 2007 alone. As part of this effort, he and Senators Dole and Burr (R-NC) sent a letter to then VA Secretary Nicholson in May requesting detailed information about plans for the clinic.Then, in June, Congressman McHenry gained a strong ally in his fight for the Hickory CBOC when he went to the House floor to engage in a lengthy colloquy about the Clinic with Chet Edwards (D-TX) who is Chairman of the House Appropriations Military Construction and Veterans Administration Subcommittee.Chairman Edwards lauded Congressman McHenry’s efforts on behalf of Western North Carolina Veterans, and said, “I believe the gentleman has a right to get a response from the Department and I would encourage the gentleman to continue working with the Senators from North Carolina in asking the Administration to provide a response to your inquiry.”Following his discussion with Rep. Edwards, Congressman McHenry brought then-VA Secretary Nicholson into his Washington office to demand an explanation for the delay and strongly encourage him to take immediate action to expedite the CBOC’s construction.Shortly thereafter, the VA announced that it would pursue a two-phased approach to construct the Hickory Clinic in order to more quickly begin the provision of quality services to local Veterans.In phase one, for which the lease was signed yesterday, a 10,000 square foot interim clinic will be established while a permanent site is located and constructed. The interim facility is slated to be in operation by August 2008.“We are excited about the opportunity to take the next step in establishing outpatient services in Hickory to improve access to care for our veterans residing in this area of North Carolina,” said VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network (VISN 6) Director Daniel F. Hoffmann. “We appreciate the patience and support on the part of members of Congress, Veterans Service Organizations, and our veterans during the negotiation period for the clinic site. We will now move expeditiously to develop an appropriate facility for clinic operations.In phase two, which is scheduled to be completed by May of 2010, a facility larger than 20,000 square feet will be built to provide a range of healthcare services to more than 10,000 local veterans. This facility will also be located in the Hickory area, and there will be no lapse in service during the transition from Phase 1 to Phase 2.TJ Rose, a veteran of three tours in Iraq, former Mecklenburg County Veterans’ Service Officer, and active member of the Catawba County veterans community, said, “We’ve been looking for answers for a long time, but we have to be excited that there’s progress being made. We are not pleased that it’s taken this long, but are blessed to actually have a clinic in our area and not have to drive to Salisbury and Asheville. But we are pleased with how well Congressman McHenry has communicated with us on progress being made.”Mr. Rose currently serves as East Coast Veterans Outreach Director for Valor Healthcare, a company that partners with the VA to open community based outpatient clinics.Veterans currently enrolled at the Salisbury VA Clinic who live in the Hickory area will be given priority for enrollment at the interim CBOC. Salisbury VA Clinic personnel will review its list of veterans currently enrolled, and will then inform those veterans of that option. The VA Medical Center in Asheville will take a similar approach in working with veterans enrolled there.Other veterans who wish to receive care at the Hickory Clinic must register with the Salisbury or Asheville VAMCs. This may be accomplished by phone, letter, e-mail, or on-line at www.va.gov, www.salisbury.va.gov, or www.asheville.va.gov. For registration information, veterans may call the Health Administration Service Office in Salisbury at (704) 638-9000 or toll-free at 1-800-469-8262, extension 2500 or the Enrollment Office in Asheville at (828) 298-7911, extension 5030. Veterans and their families who have further questions about the CBOC or issues with the Veterans Administration may also contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office toll-free at 1-800-477-2576.###
11.19.2007	Today Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) convened a meeting of his Military Advisory Committee at the Congressman’s District Office in Hickory, NC.Comprised of veterans and reservists from Western North Carolina, the Committee met with the Congressman to discuss important national security and veterans’ issues.“I appreciate the advice and experience of these veterans, and am thankful we had such a productive meeting today,” said Congressman McHenry. “Our discussion on veterans and national security issues was very informative, and I was also glad to hear the Committee’s ideas on how we can better secure our borders to put an end to illegal immigration.”Congressman McHenry created the Military Advisory Committee shortly after being elected to provide him with guidance on military, veterans, and national security issues. The Committee also selects the Congressman’s nominees of Tenth District students to attend military service academies.The primary subjects of today’s meeting were improving national security by strengthening border security and issues relating to Veterans’ services for soldiers returning from the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.Chris Brackett, who served in the first Gulf War and now lives in Hudson, NC, said, “We ran through a whole gamut of issues, including what we can do at the local level to be more proactive to responding to the needs of soldiers and their families. I thought it was very positive that the Congressman wanted to speak with veterans about issues that impact their quality of life.”The Military Advisory Committee consists of soldiers from all four service branches – Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.###
11.15.2007	Congressman McHenry has sent a letter to Acting Secretary of the Department of Agriculture Chuck Conner urging him to improve the quality of crop insurance available to Tenth District farmers from the Department of Agriculture.Under current guidelines, the Department of Agriculture offers insurance benefits to farmers whose crops are totally dead. However, many Western North Carolina farmers haven’t reached that threshold of destruction because of the unique nature of their crops.Perennial crops like Christmas Trees and ornamentals, which are common in the Tenth District, don’t necessarily have to be totally devastated for their growers to experience substantial financial hardship in the wake of natural disasters like floods and droughts.“While losses of this nature are not currently covered, they are just as financially devastating as the total crop losses felt by annual crop produces. Therefore, due to the unique nature of perennial crops, many of my constituents find themselves in the position of paying out premiums for insurance that provides them no coverage in the event of natural disasters,” Congressman McHenry said in the letter.To remedy this shortcoming, Congressman McHenry has now requested the Department of Agriculture to provide value loss adjusted coverage for affected growers, which better accommodates the unique circumstances facing many Western North Carolina farmers.The Congressman’s letter to Acting Secretary Conner is below.Acting Secretary Chuck ConnerU.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., S.W. Washington, DC 20250Dear Acting Secretary Conner, I write to you regarding concerns about current crop insurance coverage offered by the Department of Agriculture. In particular, the current suite of crop damage programs, from Multiple-Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) to Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP), fail to provide the coverage needed to address the dominant form of loss incurred by one of the key agricultural industries in the 10th Congressional District – Christmas tree growers, ornamental growers, and nurserymen. Current programs require plants to be completely dead in order to trigger coverage eligibility. Because the majority of crops in these industries are perennial, natural disasters such as drought, flood, hail, and frost do not necessarily result in a total crop loss. More often than not, these events lead to damaged crops that require additional expense to rehabilitate. In some cases, the damage and resulting substantial expenses needed create a delay in getting products to market for years. While losses of this nature are not currently covered, they are just as financially devastating as the total crop losses felt by annual crop producers. Therefore, due to the unique nature of perennial crops, many of my constituents find themselves in the position of paying out premiums for insurance that provides them no coverage in the event of natural disasters. I ask you to consider addressing this program shortfall by offering value loss adjusted coverage for growers. While such coverage may add some additional costs via increased claims, it seems likely that those costs would be greatly offset by a decrease in low interest disaster loans sought by perennial growers. As it stands now, growers have no option other than incurring more debt to be serviced by the federal government to recover from this type of loss. The debt servicing and default risk associated with those situations are detrimental to the Department of Agriculture’s bottom line as well as the growers’ chances of remaining in business and being a vital economic component of the 10th District of North Carolina.Sincerely,Patrick McHenryMember of Congress
11.15.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today voted against Rep. Barney Frank’s (D-MA) Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (HR 3915).Based on a NC law that has proven harmful to families seeking to purchase homes, HR 3915 is intended to limit home financing options available to consumers.“The housing market is facing tough times, and this bill will only make things worse for families who are working hard to own a home,” said Congressman McHenry. “By restricting the number of options available to consumers, it will force more and more families into foreclosure by taking away their ability to pursue good refinancing options.”“Instead of discouraging homeownership in these already trying times, we should be working on ways to make it more accessible and more affordable,” he added.A widely-cited study conducted by ABT Research has demonstrated the perils of the North Carolina law on which this bill is modeled. The study, which compared lending practices in North Carolina to those in South Carolina and Tennessee, found that after the North Carolina law passed:There was a 1.2 percent decline in overall lending in predominately minority neighborhoods in North Carolina, compared with a 5.2 percent increase in minority neighborhoods in the comparison states. Loans by subprime lenders declined by 8.1 percent and loans by prime lenders increased 0.7 percent. In the comparison states, loans by subprime lenders increased 4.6 percent and loans by prime lenders increased 5.4 percent. There was a decline of 11.4 percent in subprime refinance loans in North Carolina, compared to a 4.0 percent increase in the comparison states. However, subprime loans to purchase homes also grew at a much slower pace in North Carolina than in the comparison states, up 123.9 percent versus 145.8 percent. Thus, laws primarily aimed at refinance practices caused subprime lenders to withdraw completely from North Carolina and reduce credit available for purchasing a home.In order to save homeowners nationwide from harmful components of the flawed North Carolina legislation, Congressman McHenry offered an amendment on the House floor to strike the bill’s most controversial and dangerous provision, Title III.Title III changes standards under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act in a way that will severely impact the ability of many families to obtain financing and put homeownership out of their reach. The amendment was not adopted.Fortunately, Congressman McHenry was able to improve the legislation while it was under consideration in the Financial Services Committee, of which he is a member.The amendment is based on legislation Congressman McHenry introduced with Congressman Al Green (D-TX) called the Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act, and was unanimously approved in Committee.The McHenry Amendment requires lenders to provide borrowers with a simple one-page summary of their loan, including an explanation of key loan terms and conditions.“It is clear that borrowers need to be presented with a full disclosure of their mortgage obligations,” said Congressman McHenry. “My amendment empowers consumers by introducing transparency to the process, and I am pleased it was passed in Committee. As a former Realtor, I know firsthand how confusing the legal jargon can be on home loans, and my amendment will help people make sound financial decisions for their families.”HR 3915 was passed in the House and now awaits consideration in the Senate.###
11.13.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today announced that Mariner Container Corporation will receive $1.8 million in federal funding to build “Smart Containers.”The funding comes as part of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (HR 3222), which was signed into law by the President today. Congressman McHenry requested the funding for Mariner Container Corp because of its important contribution to national security and economic development in Western North Carolina.“This is great news for Caldwell County,” said Congressman McHenry. “Not only does this project make America safer by significantly improving port security, it will also create hundreds, if not thousands, of new jobs.”Based in Granite Falls, North Carolina, Mariner Container Corp. has been awarded the funding to produce “Smart Containers,” state of the art shipping containers equipped with tracking and payload communication features.Smart Containers represent a dramatic advance in shipping technology. Unlike ISO containers currently in use, Smart Containers are recyclable and are outfitted with tracking technology that substantially improves port and national security by allowing security personnel to better track material entering and exiting the United States.Additionally, Smart Containers will result in significant cost-savings for the government due to their theft, loss, and damage mitigating capabilities.The program’s manufacturing and data tracking facilities will be located in Caldwell County, creating hundreds – and potentially thousands – of new manufacturing and technology sector jobs.“The project is an excellent opportunity to bring something back to the community and create jobs,” said Mariner Container Corp CEO Rick Lampe. “This critical funding is a stepping stone to serving a real national security need and generating economic development in Caldwell County.”“We’re on cloud nine,” said Caldwell County Commissioner Herb Green. “We’ve hoped and wished for this for three years, and I know it wouldn’t have happened without Congressman McHenry’s hard work on our behalf. This is a critical component of the 21st century economy we’re trying to build in Caldwell and an answer to our prayers.”“This is very exciting news,” said Caldwell County Commissioner Faye Higgins. “This is a wonderful opportunity for Caldwell County, and another example of how Congressman McHenry makes things happen for Western North Carolina.” Congressman McHenry has worked closely with Marine Container Corp. to develop this project since June 2005.###
10.31.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today issued the following statement following his vote to pass the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007 (HR 3920), which reauthorizes and expands the Department of Labor’s Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. “TAA is a critically important program for Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry. “North Carolina has more TAA certified workers than any other state in the nation, and this year 35 percent of all TAA petitions in North Carolina have come from Tenth District counties.” “Our region has been hit hard by the effects of bad trade deals, and making sure our workers have the tools, training, and resources they need to transition to new jobs is one of my top priorities.” “This is not a perfect bill. There are some provisions that should be removed and others that should be included – like automatic eligibility for dislocated textile and apparel workers. But on the whole, the pros outweigh the cons, and I’m proud to honor my commitment to the Tenth District by voting for this bipartisan bill.” According to the North Carolina Employment Security Commission, approximately 23 percent of unemployment in the Tenth District is the result of trade-affected job losses. Since 1962, the TAA program has provided assistance and training to workers whose jobs have been lost because of factors attributable to global trade. This legislation extends TAA through 2012, while expanding and reforming some components of the program. The bill doubles the current training funding cap from $220 million to $440 million and increases it to $660 million by 2010. Under current law, workers are eligible for program benefits for a maximum of 104 weeks. This legislation increases that to a maximum of 130 weeks, giving workers greater flexibility to pursue more and better training options. Healthcare coverage for eligible workers will also be improved by provisions that minimize gaps in coverage and assure access to insurance policies that better meet the needs of workers and their families. Furthermore, COBRA eligibility is expanded substantially for TAA certified workers who are over 55 or have been with their employer for ten years Additionally, HR 3920 includes a package of tax incentives to encourage redevelopment in areas heavily affected by manufacturing job losses. By authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to designate a group of Manufacturing Redevelopment Zones, this legislation will make those hard-hit areas eligible for Work Opportunity Tax Credit classification and tax-exempt bond financing for economic development and infrastructure improvement. HR 3920 passed in the House today by a vote of 264 to 157. Congressman McHenry is also a co-sponsor of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act (HR 1729) authored by Rep. Robin Hayes (R-NC-8). Several provisions of this legislation were included in HR 3920. ###
10.18.2007	asdf share: f t Today, the U.S. Department of Labor announced the certification of a petition to grant Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to workers who will lose their jobs at the Henredon furniture plant in Burke County, NC.In late September, HDM Industries announced that it would be closing its Henredon plant in Morganton, which will cost 521 local manufacturing jobs.HDM Furniture Industries filed the petition with the Department of Labor on behalf of company employees at their plant in Morganton. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) asked the Labor Department to expedite the petition for assistance. Now granted, TAA will give employees of those plants who have lost their jobs access to training and income assistance in addition to regular Unemployment Insurance Compensation (UIC) benefits.“My office requested prompt action from the Department of Labor Department, and I am glad they responded quickly to that request,” said Congressman McHenry.“TAA will provide vital assistance to workers affected by this closing as they transition into new employment, and I will continue working hard to help these hardworking, skilled people get through this tough time,” he added.All of the HDM Furniture Industries employees laid off between September 25, 2006 and September 25, 2008 are eligible to apply for TAA assistance under this certification. The certification also covers on-site leased workers from Manpower, Friday Staffing, and Quick Temps who are affected by this closing. Additionally, older workers will be able to apply for Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) under this certification.Henredon employees who believe they are covered under this certified petition are encouraged to contact their local Employment Security Commission (ESC) office to determine if they are eligible for assistance and to obtain help in applying for assistance. Congressman McHenry’s office will also actively participate in helping dislocated workers over the coming weeks.###
10.10.2007	adsf share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Taxpayer Choice Act of 2007. This legislation repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax and gives taxpayers the option of choosing to participate in a highly simplified, efficient alternative tax code.“The 16,485 page tax code we have right now is an outrage, and it is long past time for fundamental tax reform” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation puts us on track to accomplish that by giving taxpayers the option of participating in a tax code that doesn’t require an army of accountants and tax lawyers to understand.”With this legislation, taxpayers would be able to choose between filing their taxes under the existing tax structure or under the Simplified Tax, which has two income tax rates: 10 percent for the first $100,000 earned by joint filers ($50,000 for single filers) and 25 percent for income exceeding those levels.The distribution of total tax burdens remains largely unchanged with the Simplified Tax. According to the House Budget Committee, the highest one fifth of earners will still pay roughly 70 percent of the federal tax burden; and the lowest one fifth of earners will still pay less than one percent.By eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), the Taxpayer Choice Act also prevents an $841 billion tax increase on middle class families.Designed in 1969 to stop 155 wealthy taxpayers from exploiting tax loopholes to avoid paying any taxes, the AMT is scheduled to subject nearly 30 million more Americans to an automatic tax increase next year because it was never indexed to inflation. For instance, about 70 percent of families with children earning $75,000 to $100,000 will be subject to the AMT’s much higher tax rates next year if nothing is done to correct it. Congressman McHenry co-sponsored this legislation along with several members of the Republican Study Committee, a group of more than 100 conservative Members of the House of Representatives.###
10.03.2007	WASHINGTON – Patrick McHenry (R-NC) and Al Green (D-TX), members of the House Committee on Financial Services, today introduced the Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act of 2007. This legislation will require mortgage lenders to give every borrower a one-page summary of important information regarding their loan.“Understanding key loan terms that are a mystery to so many homebuyers is necessary when entering into one of the biggest financial decisions in one’s life,” stated Congressman Al Green. “We must help ensure that borrowers who take on mortgages are familiar with some of their most basic features. That is why Congressman McHenry and I have introduced H.R. 3725, the Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act, which requires that every mortgage borrower receive a clear and simple one-page form outlining critical terms of a home loan.”“The sub-prime and foreclosure crisis has left many American families’ dream of homeownership unfulfilled. Mortgage originators would be required to provide borrowers with a one-page form outlining the key loan terms no later than three days after the application. This disclosure form would contain loan terms such as the total loan amount, the initial “teaser” interest rate and fully-indexed rate, mortgage originator fees, prepayment penalties, and balloon payments,” continued Congressman Green. “I am honored to work on this legislation with my colleague, Congressman McHenry. Though this is not a cure-all solution it is an important step in the right direction to better protecting consumers and helping to prevent another crisis in the mortgage lending industry. Although there is much more to be done, we don’t want to avoid doing what we can.”Complex and cumbersome mortgage disclosure forms are often incomprehensible to homebuyers. The Green-McHenry bill provides a simple, common sense solution to the confusing mortgage disclosure process by explaining key terms and conditions of loans to borrowers.“In the wake of the sub-prime lending crisis, it is clear that borrowers need to have a better understanding of their mortgage obligations,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am pleased to work with Congressman Green on legislation that makes the borrowing process significantly simpler and more transparent.”“As a former realtor, I know firsthand how burdensome the mountain of mortgage paperwork can be for borrowers, and this legislation will help them cut through the confusing legal jargon so they can make sound financial decisions for their families,” added McHenry.In June, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) released a study on mortgage disclosures, which concluded that “current disclosures fail to convey key mortgage costs to many consumers,” and that, “both prime and sub-prime borrowers fail to understand key loan terms.”The FTC study also found that:• “About a third could not identify the interest rate.” • “Half could not correctly identify the loan amount.” • “Two-thirds did not recognize that they would be charged a prepayment penalty.” • “Nearly nine-tenths could not identify the total amount of up-front charges.” The FTC’s full report on improving consumer mortgage disclosures can be found at: http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2007/06/mortgage.shtm.
08.30.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) last Tuesday presented $37,156 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant goes to the City of Lenoir Fire Department in Caldwell County, and comes in the fifth round of the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants (FP&S) section of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). FP&S grants support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. The primary goal is to target high-risk populations and mitigate high incidences of death and injury. Examples of the types of projects supported by FP&S include fire prevention and public safety education campaigns and arson prevention and awareness programs. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “It is often said that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, and this is certainly true when it comes to fire prevention,” stated Congressman McHenry. “These funds will allow the Lenoir Fire Department to enhance their capability to educate and protect our community from fires before they start.” “The Lenoir Fire Department continues to thrive under the leadership of Chief Ken Briscoe. His innovative strategies and devotion to public safety are extraordinary, and the fact that he was recently named North Carolina’s Fireman of the Year shows that his peers think so as well,” the Congressman added. This is the eighth FP&S grant to be awarded to a Tenth District fire department during this fiscal cycle. The Lenoir FD will use the funds to establish a program in local high schools called Students Assisting Fire Safety (SAFE). The program will train selected high school juniors and seniors in fire preparedness and safety, then utilize these students to educate senior citizens and younger children about fire safety through interactive presentations. This program will be unveiled during the Department’s “Safe Saturday” demonstration on October 13. “This will be one of the first programs of this nature in the country,” commented Lenoir Fire Chief Ken Briscoe. “It has enormous potential and we are so thankful for Congressman McHenry’s leadership and assistance to the fire service.” He added, “Congressman McHenry and I have worked together for the last three years to improve fire safety and prevention in Caldwell County. The Congressman has a sincere belief in public service and works hard for us in Washington, D.C. to provide the resources we need.” This year’s FR&S awards will continue to be announced in rounds for the next several weeks.
08.13.2007	Congressman McHenry today announced he will be hosting town hall meetings throughout the Tenth District during the month of August. “The most important part of my job is listening to the people of Western North Carolina – and this is a great opportunity for them to make their voices heard,” Congressman McHenry said. “I want everyone to bring questions on improving our local economy, protecting jobs, cutting taxes, stopping illegal immigration, ensuring family values – as well as any other issues that are most important to you,” McHenry added. Specific information regarding the town halls is listed below: Monday, August 13 at 7 p.m. Avery Town Hall Meeting Newland Town Hall Building 301 Cranberry St. Newland, NC 28657 Tuesday, August 14 at 6:30 p.m. Mitchell County Town Hall Meeting Abundant Life Outreach 12023 S 226 Hwy Spruce Pine, NC 28777 Wednesday, August 15 at 7 p.m. Rutherford County Town Hall Meeting Thomas Jefferson Classical Academy Auditorium 2527 Highway 221-A Moorseboro, NC Thursday, August 16 at 7 p.m. Cleveland/Gaston Counties Town Hall Meeting Kings Mountain City Hall City Council Chambers 101 West Gold Street Kings Mountain, NC Monday, August 20 at 7 p.m. Lincoln County Town Hall Meeting Lincolnton City Hall, City Council Chamber 114 West Sycamore Street Lincolnton, NC Tuesday, August 21 at 12 p.m. Homeschool Town Hall Meeting Henry Fork Park (Exit 121 off I-40) Hickory, NC Tuesday, August 21 at 7 p.m. Catawba County Town Hall Meeting First Assembly Church of God 1301 12th Street Drive NW Hickory, NC Wednesday, August 22 at 7 p.m. Iredell County Town Hall Meeting Mooresville Town Hall, Town Commissioners' Chamber 413 North Main Street Mooresville, NC Thursday, August 23 at 7 p.m. Burke County Town Hall Meeting Western Piedmont Community College, Phifer Learning Resource Center Room 120 1001 Burkemont Avenue Morganton, NC Friday, August 24 at 7 p.m. Caldwell County Town Hall Meeting Lenoir Public Library 120 Hospital Avenue NE Lenoir, NC
08.08.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced that applications for Fall Semester Congressional Internships in the Hickory District office are now being accepted. By assisting Congressman McHenry’s district staff, interns have the opportunity to gain firsthand knowledge about how a Congressional office provides constituent services and interacts with the community. Though all internships are unpaid, interns must receive academic credit for their work. Congressman McHenry’s internship program is open to all area high school juniors and seniors as well as college students who are legal residents of the 10th Congressional District of North Carolina. Deadline for applications is Friday, August 31, 2007.Interested candidates should contact the Hickory District Office at (828) 327-6100 or email Lee Bogle at lee.bogle@mail.house.gov. ###
07.31.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry on Monday launched Congress’ first-ever Virtual Townhall, which netted participants representing all ten counties in North Carolina’s Tenth District. The Virtual Townhall uses cutting edge technology to provide an online forum for direct communication between Western North Carolina’s citizens and their member of Congress. Please click here to view Monday’s Virtual Townhall in its entirety. “Any time you push the envelope by using new technology there’s a question about how successful and effective it will turn out,” said Congressman McHenry. “My questions were answered during our inaugural Virtual Townhall by strong and enthusiastic participation from across the Tenth District.” Monday’s Virtual Townhall was an undertaking never before attempted by a member of Congress. It began at 7:30 p.m. with the Congressman giving a legislative update followed a quick summation of the day’s leading news, and then he opened the field for participants’ questions. Topics included stopping illegal immigration, improving Americans’ health care options, combating rising gas prices, and improving the partisan climate in Washington, D.C. All residents of the Tenth District who wished to log in to the event were free to do so through Congressman McHenry’s website at http://mchenry.house.gov. “While Virtual Townhalls are a unique and exciting way to reach out to people back home while I’m in Washington, I prefer traveling across the Tenth District and holding my annual townhalls,” added McHenry. “I encourage everyone to come out this August and meet with me in person so we can discuss the issues that are most important to Western North Carolina.”
07.25.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced he will host a live, unprecedented Virtual Townhall on Monday, July 30 at 7:30 p.m. Tenth District residents interested in participating can visit the Congressman’s website – http://mchenry.house.gov – at 7:30 p.m. next Monday and click the banner located across the top of the home page. "In addition to holding townhalls in every county in our district, I am constantly searching for new, innovative ways to speak directly with people in Western North Carolina while I’m serving in Washington,” said Congressman McHenry. “I look forward to talking with people in the Tenth District about the issues that hit home for us like stopping illegal immigration, cutting taxes, creating jobs, and protecting our traditional values." Upon clicking the Virtual Townhall banner at the top of the Congressman’s homepage, participants will view the Congressman giving an update on legislation and initiatives important to Western North Carolina. The Virtual Townhall is fully interactive; Tenth District residents are encouraged to submit their questions during the townhall and the Congressman will answer them live. Next Monday’s Virtual Townhall comes on the heels of two successful Teletownhalls, which follow a similar principle while involving telephones instead of the Internet. Teletownhalls allow Tenth District constituents to hold question and answer sessions directly with the Congressman. Altogether, Congressman McHenry spoke with 7,140 constituents during the two Teletownhall meetings this year. Congressman McHenry is scheduled to host townhalls in every county of the Tenth District throughout the month of August. More information about these townhalls will be posted on the Congressman’s website at http://mchenry.house.gov next week.
07.24.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced the U.S. House of Representatives approved $150,000 in funding for the North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies, a workforce development program based in Hickory. The funding was included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2008 (H.R. 3043). “These funds will help the Engineering Center continue expanding the quality and quantity of programs available to local students,” said Congressman McHenry. “And you’ll see more and more businesses looking to invest in Western North Carolina because of the opportunity to hire the Engineering Center’s exceptionally-trained workers.” The North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies is designed to serve the workforce needs of existing and emerging industries in Western North Carolina. Product development, business process improvement, and technical engineering programs comprise its core curriculum. The Center also collaborates with the business community to determine future programs and initiatives based on the needs of those employers. “This Center is an ideal coalition of education, manufacturing and community leaders, working together to improve our training and educational opportunities for our region,” the Congressman added. The Engineering Center works in close coordination with the Future Forward Economic Alliance, an Economic Development Administration-sponsored entity working to create a comprehensive economic development strategy for 12 counties in Western North Carolina. Future Forward worked with local business and government leaders to raise start-up money for the Center and acquire a 55,200 square foot facility for it. “I am extremely happy Congressman McHenry was effective in obtaining this funding for us,” said Future Forward Chairman Pete Miller. “The Center is going to be a real boon for our area because of its ability to attract new industries.” Western Carolina University (WCU) works in partnership with the Center on its degree programs, which will eventually become part of the University of North Carolina System, making it the first such institution in the Tenth Congressional District. “Education is the key to economic growth, and we’ll continue pushing to fund the initiatives that will ensure our region is a magnet for new businesses,” Congressman McHenry added. The House passed H.R. 3043 by a vote of 276 to 140. The bill is now under consideration in the Senate.
07.20.2007	Congressmen Patrick McHenry today announced the U.S. House of Representatives approved $100,000 in funding for the Appalachian State University Center at the Caldwell Community College and Technical Institute (CCC&TI) in Hudson, NC. The funding is included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2008 (H.R. 3043), which passed the House on July 19, 2007. “This much-needed funding will go a long way in improving educational opportunities in Western North Carolina at all levels,” said Congressman McHenry. “Not only does the Appalachian Center offer undergraduate programs for aspiring teachers, but it will also provide our local elementary, middle, and high schools with a pool of talented teachers to fill their classroom needs.” “Education is a key component to economic development. For our economy to rebound, it is important for quality educational opportunities like this to be available locally,” McHenry added. A partnership program between Appalachian State University and CCC&TI, the Appalachian Center offers training and support for local teachers as well as undergraduate education degrees. “Congressman McHenry was very effective in getting funding for this worthwhile project passed in the House,” said Faye Higgins, Chairman of the Caldwell County Board of Commissioners. “This will help a great deal with Appalachian State’s presence on the CCC&TI campus, which continues to have a tremendous impact in Caldwell County and the surrounding region.” The Appalachian Center is the product of an arrangement reached between Appalachian State University (ASU) and CCC&TI in June of 2003, which was announced alongside a $1 million start-up grant from the Broyhill Family Foundation. The House passed H.R. 3043 by a vote of 276 to 140. The bill is now under consideration in the Senate.
07.02.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry and Senator Elizabeth Dole issued a letter last Friday to Governor Mike Easley, requesting that he direct North Carolina Department of Transportation Secretary Lyndo Tippett to clarify his position on keeping Conover’s Exit 131 open. According to current law, only the North Carolina Department of Transportation can legally petition the Federal Highway Administration to alter state transportation projects. Without the department’s participation, it is inevitable that Exit 131 will be closed. “As we understand,” said McHenry and Dole in the letter, “it is critical this interchange remains functional as it provides for economic development, reduces emergency response times, and improves transportation options in this region.” Their letter includes a quote from a recent Hickory Daily Record article that said, “The looming shutdown of the Interstate 40 ramps at Exit 131 is causing more than just headaches for businesses along N.C. 16. City officials say citizens living [off Exit 131] may see emergency aide delayed by as much as four minutes.” According to McHenry and Dole, “Four minutes can be extremely valuable during a medical emergency.” The letter concluded by identifying the harmful effects of closing Exit 131. “The closure of this interchange would force the citizens of Conover and the surrounding area to forfeit an essential component of their transportation infrastructure, would diminish the groundwork for future economic development and would eliminate vital roadways for emergency response,” added McHenry and Dole. McHenry sponsored an amendment to the House Transportations Appropriations Bill of 2006, which would prohibit the use of federal funds to demolish the interchange. The amendment passed in the U.S. House of Representatives, but the Senate failed to bring up a vote on the bill last year. Please see below the letter issued to Governor Easley on Friday, June 29. June 29, 2007 The Honorable Mike EasleyOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301 Dear Governor Easley: We write to you regarding the closure of Exit 131 in Conover. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, the responsibility of obtaining a waiver to keep the exit open rests solely with the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT). Therefore, we respectfully request that you direct Lyndo Tippitt, Secretary of the NCDOT, to clarify his position on keeping the interchange open. If it is Secretary Tippitt’s position that the Conover’s Exit 131 should remain open, we request that NCDOT formally and fully petition the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for a waiver that will keep it operational. Without the NCDOT’s participation, it is inevitable that Exit 131 will be closed. As we understand, it is critical this interchange remains functional as it provides for economic development, reduces emergency response times, and improves transportation options in this region. Many individuals commute from outside of Catawba County and rely on this interchange for easy travel to and from their places of employment. In addition, there are numerous businesses that depend on the resulting traffic to produce a substantial number of their patrons. Exit 131 provides direct access to a portion of Conover that has grown tremendously since the planning stages to relocate N.C. 16. We have heard from local business owners, community leaders and elected officials that closing the exit would not only harm existing businesses in the area, it would also hinder future development and growth. Besides a prevailing lack of accidents at this exit, local law enforcement officials and first responders believe that closing this ramp will lead to an increase in emergency response times and divert traffic into residential neighborhoods. As the Hickory Daily Record reported on June 17, 2007: "The looming shutdown of the Interstate 40 ramps at Exit 131 is causing more than just headaches for businesses along N.C. 16. City officials say citizens living [off Exit 131] may see emergency aide delayed by as much as four minutes." Four minutes can be extremely valuable during a medical emergency. Again, we request that the NCDOT make clear its position regarding the eminent closure of Exit 131, and expeditiously petition the FHWA for a waiver if that position is to keep it open. The closure of this interchange would force the citizens of Conover and the surrounding area to forfeit an essential component of their transportation infrastructure, would diminish the groundwork for future economic development and would eliminate vital roadways for emergency response. Sincerely, _________________ ________________ Congressman Patrick McHenry Senator Elizabeth Dole Cc: The Honorable Lyndo Tippett, Secretary of Transportation
06.25.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced a $1 million Economic Development grant is being awarded to Burke County and the Western Piedmont Community College (WPCC) to construct the new Foothills Allied Health & Science Higher Education Center. The grant will support the renovation of a former manufacturing facility to house a new workforce training center. “This $1 million grant is a huge win for our region on three fronts: more jobs, better healthcare, and increased private investment in our community,” said Congressman McHenry. “The creation of this higher education center will guarantee the economic future and healthcare in Burke County as well as the surrounding areas.” The center will be used to train more than 500 students annually in the healthcare industry, which will create 220 jobs and generate more than $120 million in private investment. “The College is proud to partner with Burke County to establish the Foothills Allied Health and Science Higher Education Center and is thankful for the financial support provided by the EDA,” said Dr. Jim W. Burnett, president of WPCC. Since 2001, the number of individuals employed in Burke County’s healthcare field increased by 62% and the Blue Ridge Healthcare System plans to invest $75 to $100 million to expand its local healthcare services. This expansion will require employees with degrees and training currently unavailable in the region – thus making the center a regional necessity. “This center will address the critical shortage of healthcare professionals in the local healthcare system as well as the need for advanced healthcare education among area residents,” added Dr. Burnett. “Western Piedmont Community College is committed to working with area employers, regional institutions of higher education, and governmental agencies to provide the best possible education for Burke County residents.”
06.20.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry last week gained an influential ally in House Appropriations Military Construction and Veterans Administration Subcommittee Chairman Chet Edwards (D-TX) in the fight for an updated status report on the Hickory VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic’s (CBOC) scheduled opening. “When opened, this clinic will serve approximately 10,000 veterans on an outpatient basis annually,” said Congressman McHenry last Friday on the House floor. “However, since the VA’s Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network announced last June that the clinic in Hickory would open in January of this year, there has been nothing but delay after delay after delay.”Chairman Edwards noted McHenry’s concerns and urged him to continue his efforts. “I believe the gentleman has a right to get a response from the Department and I would encourage the gentleman to continue working with the Senators from North Carolina in asking the Administration to provide a response to your inquiry,” said Chairman Edwards. On May 23, McHenry joined Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr in requesting a status report from the U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Nicholson on the VA CBOC scheduled for construction in Hickory. The letter sent by McHenry, Dole, and Burr to Secretary Nicholson stated that, “We are asking you to provide us with an explanation for these delays and a firm opening date so that the veterans in the region who will benefit from this CBOC will be able to receive needed medical care without having to make the long trip to either Asheville or Salisbury.”McHenry is scheduled to meet with Secretary Nicholson in the coming weeks regarding the Hickory CBOC. Funding for the 10,000 square foot Hickory CBOC was approved in June 2006 and the original opening date was slated for January 2007. A few months later, in September, the proposed size for the CBOC was increased to close to 20,000 square feet and the new opening date for the CBOC was delayed until September of 2007. However, should construction be required, that opening date would delay the launch date by approximately three to four more months. A transcript of the exchange between Congressman McHenry and Chairman Edwards last Friday on the House floor is appended below: Congressman McHenry: Mr. Chairman, I would like to bring your attention to the shortcomings of the Department of Veterans Affairs in addressing the infrastructural needs of Community-Based Outpatient Clinics. These clinics provide convenient care to our veterans on an outpatient basis. There are currently 64 pending clinics that have received approval from the VA either in Fiscal Year ’07 or Fiscal Year ’08 that have yet to be completed. One of those clinics is set to be established in my district in Hickory, North Carolina. When opened, this clinic will serve approximately 10,000 veterans on an outpatient basis annually. However, since the VA’s Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network announced last June that the clinic in Hickory would open in January of this year, there has been nothing but delay after delay after delay. Now, veterans in Western North Carolina are frustrated with delays that seem to be common throughout the system. This particular clinic has been in the works in some way or another for twelve years. The time is up for delays, and veterans in these 64 regions are entitled to answers. Last month, my two North Carolina colleagues in the Senate and I formally requested an update about the status of the outpatient clinic in Hickory. Unfortunately, we still have yet to receive a response to our inquiry. Our veterans deserve better. I would ask that, as this bill moves forward to the Senate and to Conference, the Chairman and the Ranking Member work to get answers from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Answers as to why we have these continued delays for pending outpatient clinics. Veterans in Hickory, North Carolina and across the country have sacrificed too much for our country and deserve – at the very least – convenient health care. They deserve a proper explanation – and progress report – on their new outpatient clinic, which is approved but not yet built. Chairman Edwards: Reclaiming my time. I thank the Gentleman from North Carolina for his comments. At the end of fiscal year 2006, the Department had 717 Community-Based Outpatient Clinics around the country. And the gentleman is correct that more than 60 additional CBOCs have been approved and are in the pipeline for opening in fiscal years 2007 and 2008. I would say to the gentleman, while I don’t have the facts on which of these approved CBOCs has a higher priority over another or which should be opened before another, that is exactly some of the information the Committee report requires from the Department as part of our oversight initiatives this year. The Committee report directs the Secretary to report within 60 days on the location, cost, activation date, and type of facility planned. I believe the gentleman has a right to get a response from the Department and I would encourage the gentleman to continue working with the Senators from North Carolina in asking the Administration to provide a response to your inquiry.
06.20.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today pledged to vote to uphold President Bush’s veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which directs taxpayer money to fund the destruction of human embryos for research purposes. The Congressman’s statement is below: Embryonic stem cell research is morally wrong because it’s based on the concept that you create life to destroy it. Scientific discovery should never compromise our moral integrity. Washington should never require pro-life taxpayers to fund research that ends life while carrying the banner of scientific progress – that is not progress; it’s a breakdown in medical ethics. It’s important to note that there are ethical alternatives to embryonic stem cell research. Adult stem cell and neonatal cord blood research methods — which do not destroy human life —are responsible for more than 70 medical breakthroughs. Embryonic stem cell research is responsible for none. I strongly support advanced scientific research – including the use of adult stem cells – to achieve lifesaving cures; but scientific research must be morally and ethically just. Medical breakthroughs should improve life, not take life. The House voted 247 to 176 to pass the legislation. The Senate cleared the bill 63 to 34 in April. Both margins are short of the two-thirds supermajority that would be necessary to override a presidential veto.
06.08.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced that the U.S. Departments of State and Homeland Security are allowing temporary travel flexibility with regard to passports. U.S. citizens who are traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda and who have applied for but not yet received passports can temporarily enter and depart from the United States by air with a government issued photo identification and Department of State official proof of application for a passport through September 30, 2007. The federal government is making this accommodation for air travel due to longer than expected processing times for passport applications in the face of record-breaking demand. Adults who have applied for but not yet received a passport should present government-issued photo identification and an official proof of application from the U.S. Department of State. Children under the age of 16 traveling with their parents or legal guardian will be permitted to travel with the child’s proof of application. Travelers who have not applied for a passport should not expect to be accommodated. U.S. citizens with pending passport applications can obtain proof of application at: http://travel.state.gov. Tenth District citizens who have filed their application but are not able to receive their receipt through the State Department’s website should contact Congressman McHenry’s Hickory district office at 1-800-477-2576. This accommodation does not affect entry requirements to other countries. Americans traveling to a country that requires passports must still present those documents. The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) was mandated by Congress in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to strengthen border security and facilitate entry into the United States for citizens and legitimate international visitors. Initial WHTI requirements for air travel took effect on January 23, 2007.
06.07.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today voted against the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which directs taxpayer money to fund the destruction of human embryos for research purposes. The Congressman’s statement delivered upon voting against the measure is below: "Embryonic stem cell research is morally wrong because it’s based on the concept that you create life to destroy it. Scientific discovery should never compromise our moral integrity." "Washington has no business funding research that ends life while carrying the banner of scientific progress – that is not progress; it’s a breakdown in medical ethics." "It’s important to note that there are ethical alternatives to embryonic stem cell research. Adult stem cell and neonatal cord blood research methods — which do not destroy human life —are responsible for more than 70 medical breakthroughs. Embryonic stem cell research is responsible for none." "I strongly support advanced scientific research to achieve lifesaving cures; but scientific research must be morally and ethically just." "Medical breakthroughs should improve life, not take life." Congressional Democrats passed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act in the House today by a vote of 247 to 176. President Bush is expected to veto the legislation as he previously did on July 19, 2006 – and in the event this happens, Congressman McHenry will vote to uphold the President’s veto.
06.04.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry hosted a reception in his Hickory district office last Friday to honor 11 local students who were recently appointed to service academies.“I was proud to nominate all of them to service academies earlier this year; they’re very deserving and talented young people,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am confident their admission is but the first step in a long line of success, marked by their brave and dutiful service to our nation.” Friday’s reception honored the following appointees: Avery County · Zachary Hodgin, Avery County High School, son of Gaila and Bob Hodgin, admitted to the United States Naval Academy Burke County · Patrick Northam, Freedom High School, son of Linda and George Northam, admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point Catawba County · Brandon Beckler, Fred T. Foard High School, son of Sandra and Erick Beckler, admitted to the United States Naval Academy · Bethany Derby *, Naval Academy Prep, daughter of Beverly M. Derby, admitted to the United States Naval Academy. · Benjamin Gibbs, Hickory High School, son of Lee and Benjamin Gibbs, admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point · Tripp Johnson (J. Eulan III), Hickory High School, son of Nancy and Eulan Johnson, admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point · Steven Klecha, Saint Stephens High School, son of Patricia and Thomas Klecha, admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point · Micah Penley, Fred T. Foard High School, son of Kim and Richard Penley, admitted to the United States Naval Academy · Tristan Setzer *, Naval Academy Prep., son of Victoria and Ryan Setzer, admitted to the United States Naval Academy Caldwell County · Kenneth Evans*, Naval Academy Prep, son of Elizabeth and Nelson Evans, admitted to the United States Naval Academy Iredell County · Andrew Schweickert, Lake Norman High School, son of Laura and Vincent Schweickert, admitted to United States Air Force Academy These 10th District students received service academy nominations from the Congressman and were admitted into three service academies, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated from an authorized person, including a Member of the United States Senate or the House of Representatives. Nominations centered on several criteria such as: consistently strong academic performance, physical fitness, participation in leadership positions within his or her school as well as community, and a strong commitment to pursuing a career in the Armed Forces. Congressman McHenry tapped 10 local veterans to serve on his Military Advisory Committee, the group that joined the Congressman in interviewing the local applicants and determining the nominations. Committee members were chosen based on several conditions including past military service, recommendations from local citizens and elected officials and/or graduation from a service academy. *Granted a nomination in the 2006 cycle. Currently attending Naval Academy Prep School. Nomination carried automatically into 2007 cycle.
05.22.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today released the following statement in response to the U. S. Senate beginning debate on their comprehensive immigration reform / amnesty legislation: “The Senate’s proposal is nothing more than amnesty wearing make-up – it's easier to look at, but just as ugly underneath. The simple truth is that if you break the law to come to this country, you will not respect it once you’re here. Providing amnesty to illegal immigrants is a slap in the face to law-abiding immigrants who came to our nation and faced head-on the process of becoming legal citizens.” WHAT'S IN THE SENATE IMMIGRATION BILL? The estimated 12 million illegal immigrants who arrived in the US before 2007: Can immediately receive a probationary card, which allows them to legally live and work in the US Are eligible for a renewable Z visa, offering a path to permanent legal residency status Are required to pay $5,000 fine, pass a criminal background check, and be employed And heads of household are required to return to their home countries within eight years For immigrants seeking future entry: Shifts from system weighted toward family ties toward one with preference for people with advanced degrees, skills Gives points based on immigrant's education, work experience, English proficiency, and family connections Allows spouses and children under 21 to reunite with their families Seeks to clear a backlog in visas for family reunification that will help some 4 million families in the first eight years Initially distributes about 1.1 million family-based (89 percent) and 140,000 merit-based (11 percent) green cards After eight years, allocates 550,000 family-based (60 percent) and 380,000 merit-based (40 percent) green cards Temporary guest-worker program: Would admit between 400,000 and 600,000 temporary workers per year Would allow immigrants to work in the US for two years, then require them to return home Can renew guest-worker visas twice, but workers must leave for a year in between Enforcement, security provisions: Activates temporary guest-worker and Z visa programs only after implementing specific security "triggers" “Triggers" include: 18,000 border patrol agents, 370 miles of additional border fencing, 70 radar and camera towers along the US southern border, and an electronic employee-verification system for the workplace Sources: Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Reform Act of 2007; Senate staff briefings
05.16.2007	More than five months after taking control of Congress, Democrats in the House and Senate have made no progress on addressing any of the major issues confronting the United States, according to data published by the Legislative Information System. Despite their highly-touted “Six for ‘06” agenda, Democrats have failed to pass into law a single piece of substantive legislation. “So far the only Americans experiencing ‘a new direction’ are postal workers adjusting to the new nameplates on the front of their offices,” said Congressman McHenry. “Democrats have successfully passed 26 bills into law — 12 of which name a federal building, post office, courthouse, or national recreation area. Zero makes any legislative impact on fighting the war against Islamic extremists, balancing the federal budget, creating jobs, cutting pork-barrel spending, or saving Social Security.” The Democrats’ inability to produce results seems unacceptable to Americans who expect their government to address the nation’s challenges. According to a recent Gallup poll, only 29% of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing. A poll conducted last month by ABC and The Washington Post shows that 73% of Americans think that Congress has done “not much” or “nothing at all.” Please see below a list of the bills Democrats have successfully passed into law, which reflects five months of “work.” 1) S.159 : A bill to redesignate the White Rocks National Recreation Area in the State of Vermont as the “Robert T. Stafford White Rocks National Recreation Area.” 2) H.R.475 : To revise the composition of the House of Representatives Page Board to equalize the number of members representing the majority and minority parties and to include a member representing the parents of pages and a member representing former pages, and for other purposes. 3) H.R.188 : To provide a new effective date for the applicability of certain provisions of law to Public Law 105-331. 4) H.R.434 : An act to provide for an additional temporary extension of programs under the Small Business Act and the Small business Investment Act of 1958 through July 31, 2007. 5) H.J.RES.20 : Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2007. 6) H.R.742 : To amend the Antitrust Modernization Commission Act of 2002, to extend the term of the Antitrust Modernization Commission and to make a technical correction. 7) H.R.49 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1300 North Frontage Road West in Vail, Colorado, as the “Gerald R. Ford, Jr. Post Office Building.” 8) H.R.335 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 152 North 5th Street in Laramie, Wyoming, as the “Gale W. McGee Post Office.” 9) H.R.433 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1700 Main Street in Little Rock, Arkansas, as the “Scipio A. Jones Post Office Building.” 10) H.R.514 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 16150 Aviation Loop Drive in Brooksville, Florida, as the “Sergeant Lea Robert Mills Brooksville Aviation Branch Post Office.” 11) H.R.577 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3903 South Congress Avenue in Austin, Texas, as the “Sergeant Henry Ybarra III Post Office Building.” 12) H.R.521 : To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2633 11th Street in Rock Island, Illinois, as the “Lane Evans Post Office Building.” 13) H.R.342 : To designate the United States courthouse located at 555 Independence Street in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, as the “Rush Hudson Limbaugh, Sr. United States Courthouse.” 14) H.R.544 : To designate the United States courthouse at South Federal Place in Santa Fe, New Mexico, as the “Santiago E. Campos United States Courthouse.” 15) H.R.584 : To designate the Federal building located at 400 Maryland Avenue Southwest in the District of Columbia as the “Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education Building.” 16) H.R.1129 : To provide for the construction, operation, and maintenance of an arterial road in St. Louis County, Missouri. 17) S.494 : A bill to endorse further enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and to facilitate the timely admission of new members to NATO. 18) H.R.1132 : To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide waivers relating to grants for preventive health measures with respect to breast and cervical cancers. 19) S.1002 : A bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to reinstate certain provisions relating to the nutrition services incentive program. 20) H.R.753 : To redesignate the Federal building located at 167 North Main Street in Memphis, Tennessee, as the “Clifford Davis and Odell Horton Federal Building.” 21) H.R.1003 : To amend the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 to reauthorize the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. 22) H.R.137 : To amend title 18, United States Code, to strengthen prohibitions against animal fighting. 23) H.R.727 : To amend the Public Health Service Act to add requirements regarding trauma care. 24) H.R.1130 : To amend the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to extend the authority to withhold from public availability a financial disclosure report filed by an individual who is a judicial officer or judicial employee. 25) S.521 : A bill to designate the Federal building and United States courthouse and customhouse located at 515 West First Street in Duluth, Minnesota, as the “Gerald W. Heaney Federal Building and United States Courthouse and Customhouse.” 26) H.R.1681 : To amend the Congressional Charter of The American National Red Cross to modernize its governance structure.
05.10.2007	House and Senate Democrats are meeting this week to finalize their federal budget, which will cost North Carolina’s Tenth District 2,200 jobs upon its adoption. The Heritage Foundation released a study this month titled “The Impact of Tax Increases: A Breakdown of How Congress Could Harm Taxpayers and Local Economies,” stating that the Democrats’ budget proposal will be the largest tax increase in American history, decrease job growth, reduce disposable income, and weaken our economy. “Democrats in Washington are committed to a destructive formula: raise taxes, increase the size of the federal government, and do it all at the expense of our taxpayers,” said Congressman McHenry. “With China already stealing our jobs, the last thing we need is for Washington to lay off 2,200 more of our workers. I am fighting to block the disastrous effects of this policy by strengthening our local economies, attracting new industries, and increasing educational as well as worker retraining opportunities.” According to the Heritage report, the average tax increase for citizens in North Carolina’s Tenth District will be $2,474 with an additional per capita income loss of $438. Furthermore, our local economy will suffer a $196 million hit as a result of the Democrats’ budget. Nationally, the Democrats’ budget will slow economic growth by 1 million jobs and damage economic output by over $100 billion. Congressman McHenry voted against the House version of the Democrats’ budget proposal on March 29. Democrats hope to have a final deal in place by May 15, which is the date under law when the House can begin moving spending bills on the floor without a final budget in place.
05.10.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry proudly welcomes VX Aerospace to Morganton, NC where it will locate its corporate headquarters and construct a new facility to manufacture aircraft. This new development is expected to generate approximately 400 new local jobs and expand the region’s manufacturing base. VX Aerospace is presently working with Western Piedmont Community College to provide the necessary training for its new workforce. “This is great news for Burke and Caldwell Counties, and would not have happened without the diligent, persistent teamwork of the Foothills Regional Airport Authority, commissioners, mayors, and economic development folks,” said Congressman McHenry. “It’s exactly the type of investment our region needs to help revitalize our manufacturing base.” VX Aerospace manufactures single-engine aircraft as well as composite parts for the U.S. Military’s Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV). The company will construct a 72,000 square foot manufacturing facility for aircraft construction and assembly at the Foothills Regional Airport. VX Aerospace will be the anchor tenant at the 800-acre Foothill Regional Airport Industrial Park. “In addition to manufacturing top-notch aircraft, VX Aerospace plays a unique role in our nation’s war against Islamic extremists and defending America’s southern border. Their composite materials are used to manufacture UAVs, which are employed to track down terrorists and monitor illegals crossing our borders,” added McHenry. The company’s initial investment of $5.5 million dollars is projected to create approximately 43 new jobs in the first year. Subsequently, VX Aerospace’s local manufacturing workforce is expected to grow by nearly 10 times in the next five years.
05.03.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry this week welcomed representatives from the Tenth District’s Chambers of Commerce to Washington, DC for their inaugural fly-in, featuring meetings with White House officials, members of Congress, and economic development experts. “The inaugural Tenth District Chamber of Commerce fly-in was a remarkable success,” said Congressman McHenry. “The purpose of this event is to build upon the working relationships between federal and local economic development initiatives. Strong partnerships lead to more ideas, better execution, and greater local job growth.” One highlight during the two-day event was a presentation given by Patti Jensen, Shirley Hise, Andy Ashurst, and Bill Slagle, Jr. from the Mitchell County Development Foundation. They noted their collaboration with Congressman McHenry last year on a program called the “Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree,” a local economic development project that elicited national recognition in USA Today, HGTV as well as FOX and Friends. Click here to read more about the “Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree” story. “Congressman McHenry is always here to help,” said Jensen during her presentation. “Sometimes it’s just as simple as telling him exactly what you need.” Every Chamber of Commerce in the Tenth District was invited to participate. Chamber presidents and staff members as well as business leaders from Catawba, Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln, Mitchell, and Iredell counties took part in Monday and Tuesday’s events. A list of the event’s speakers is below: Monday, April 30 • Secretary Mary Peters, U.S. Department of Transportation • Acting Assistant Administrator Bill Wehrum, Environmental Protection Agency • Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) • Rep. Jim McCrery (R-LA), Ranking Member on Ways and Means Committee • Mr. Stuart McLean and Mr. Nathan Elia, Scottish Affairs Office • Ms. Patti Jensen, Ms. Shirley Hise, Mr. Andy Ashurst, and Mr. Bill Slagle, Jr., Mitchell County Development Foundation Tuesday, May 1 • Sen. Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), North Carolina • Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), North Carolina • Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC), Financial Services Committee • Rep. Peter Hoekstra (R-NY), Ranking Member on Select Intelligence Committee • Rep. John Mica (R-FL), Ranking Member on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
05.02.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today sent a letter to President George W. Bush, urging him to quickly approve the disaster assistance petition submitted by Governor Mike Easley on April 19, 2007. The federal declaration of disaster assistance will help local farmers recover their losses due to the Easter weekend freeze. “I respectfully ask that [you] act on this information as quickly and decisively as possible and declare these counties across North Carolina as a natural disaster area,” said Congressman McHenry in the letter. “In making this declaration, you are providing the necessary assistance to the growers [in] Western North Carolina so they can recoup these devastating losses.” According to the North Carolina Department of Agriculture’s (NCDA) preliminary reports, Tenth District counties suffered $19,772,184 in agricultural losses and incurred weather-related damage across 77,458 acres. Damage estimates are expected to increase as further information – such as ornamental crop losses – becomes more readily available. The NCDA’s preliminary statewide damage assessment notes that nursery crops suffered the highest losses at $57.9 million. Fruits and vegetables, which include apples, peaches, and various berries, suffered estimated losses of $26.5 million. Other crops affected by the freeze included corn, wheat, barley, and Irish potatoes. According to United States Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency (FSA) and the Governor’s office, a county must have at least one crop suffer a 35 percent or greater reduction in normal yield to be included in a disaster declaration request. Governor Easley’s petition to the President included 8 of the ten counties in the Tenth District; Caldwell and Catawba Counties were not included as part of the Governor’s petition. If President Bush approves the disaster assistance declaration, Caldwell and Catawba Counties will qualify for the FSA low interest emergency loan program because of their contiguous status. Contiguous counties are otherwise known as counties that suffered comparable damage and lie adjacent to federally designated disaster assistance zones. Local farmers who need help locating their nearest extension agent, or FSA office, can contact Congressman McHenry's office toll free at 1-800-477-2576, or consult the following websites: FSA: http://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=nc&agency=fsa Extension Agents: http://www.ces.ncsu.edu/index.php?page=countycenters On April 13, 2007, the Congressman issued a letter to Governor Mike Easley, requesting he petition President George W. Bush and Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns for natural disaster assistance. The Congressman’s letter to President Bush is below: May 2, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Mr. President: On April 19, 2007, Governor Mike Easley of North Carolina made an official request to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns to declare 47 counties across the state, including 8 of the 10 counties I represent, as a natural disaster area due to the record-breaking cold weather throughout the Easter holiday weekend. A disaster declaration would provide the growers in these counties in my Congressional district, as well as across the State of North Carolina, with the necessary approval to become eligible to obtain federal Emergency Credit Loans. In the region that I represent in Western North Carolina, the focus of agriculture lies within specialty crops. Specialty crops represent close to 45% of the total value of crop production in the United States and provide over $1 billion in farm income from fruits, vegetables, nursery and greenhouse, and Christmas trees for the State of North Carolina. During the record-breaking cold weather, initial figures indicate that nursery crops across the state suffered the most with an estimated $57.9 million in losses. Furthermore, fruit and vegetable crops lost an estimated $26.5 million. Those same preliminary figures reported that, in the counties I represent, 77,458 acres of land suffered significant damage that resulted in a loss of $19,772,184 for the local agricultural economy. Unfortunately, damage to farmland across the state continues to be reported as a result of these unseasonably freezing temperatures. In the immediate aftermath of this damage, I joined a number of my North Carolina Congressional colleagues in urging Governor Easley to formally request the federal declaration of these counties as a natural disaster. I respectfully ask that, after reviewing the data as it becomes available, you act on this information as quickly and decisively as possible and declare these counties across North Carolina as a natural disaster area. In making this declaration, you are putting in place the first steps in providing the assistance to the growers in our state, and in particular, Western North Carolina, so they can recoup these devastating losses. I look forward to you taking action on this urgent matter for the State of North Carolina. If I can be of any further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry Member of Congress
05.01.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today released this statement upon news of the passing of Cleveland Sanitary District Board Chairman and longtime Republican activist John Cline: "I was deeply saddened to hear the news of John Cline’s passing last night. John was one of Cleveland County’s leading citizens and his impact on his community will be felt for decades to come. John was a World War II Pacific Theatre veteran who volunteered his time to serve on my Military Advisory Committee. He was a key advisor to me on my nominations to service academies and other military matters.""During my first campaign for Congress, everyone told me I needed to know John Cline if I wanted to win in Cleveland County. They were right, and I’m proud to say that I not only knew John, but counted him as a dear friend. John could be called the ‘Grandfather of the Cleveland County Republican Party,’ and any Republican that was ever elected in the county owes a debt of gratitude to John Cline for laying the groundwork to make future successes possible.""John was also a farmer and a tremendous advocate for agriculture in North Carolina. Additionally, his work as chairman of the Cleveland County Sanitary District Board was dedicated to expanding reliable access to water. He was instrumental in the creation of Moss Lake in Kings Mountain and had worked for the past several years on plans for a reservoir to serve the northern part of the county. Once completed, I can think of no more appropriate name for this project than ‘John Cline Lake.’" "I will be forever grateful for the honor of having known John. He was a man who cherished faith, family and his community. In Cleveland County’s long history of distinguished citizens, John Cline ranks among one of the greats. We will all miss him."
04.18.2007	Congressman McHenry issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling today, which upholds the law banning partial birth abortions nationwide. "The Supreme Court’s ruling today reflects the compassionate belief that life must be treasured and protected at all costs," said Congressman McHenry. "Partial birth abortion stands as the most abhorrent and gruesome act perpetrated against the most vulnerable among us – and its cruelty has no place in civilized society.""Going forward, Americans must come together to defeat the scourge of abortion. It is our responsibility to uphold the basic sanctity of life granted to us by our Maker," McHenry added. The 5-4 Supreme Court ruling stated the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act that Congress passed and President Bush signed into law in 2003 does not violate the Constitution. Federal judges in California, Nebraska and New York previously ruled the law was unconstitutional, and three appellate courts agreed. The Supreme Court accepted appeals from California and Nebraska, setting up today's ruling.
04.17.2007	The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) with its annual “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his strong voting record on critical business issues in the second session of the 109th Congress. “Rep. McHenry proved to be a valuable ally to the business community last year, supporting measures to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth,” said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. “The business community appreciates Patrick’s dedication to a pro-growth agenda and we are proud to present him with this award.” The Chamber’s prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award is given annually to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication, “How They Voted.” Rep. McHenry compiled a 93% score with the Chamber last year and holds a cumulative 91% ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber’s designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber’s board of directors, on which the Chamber informs Congress of its position prior to the vote. Senators and House members who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of these key votes receive the “Spirit of Enterprise” award. During the second session of the 109th Congress, the Chamber key-voted 12 Senate and 15 House votes, including comprehensive pension reform, extended tax relief, maritime and cargo security enhancements, and the U.S./India nuclear agreement. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation, representing more than 3 million businesses and organizations of every size, sector, and region. # # # EDITOR’S NOTE: A complete listing of key votes and ratings is available online. www.uschamber.com
04.13.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today issued a letter to Governor Mike Easley, requesting he petition President George W. Bush and Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns for natural disaster assistance. The federal designation will help local farmers recoup their losses due to the Easter weekend freeze. “Over the coming days, more data will become available as to the extent of the damage across the state due to this weather,” said Congressman McHenry, in his letter to Governor Easley. “On behalf of the farmers in my Congressional District and across the state, I ask that you carefully review all data while specifically keeping a watchful eye on the specialty crops grown in Western North Carolina – which are vital to the agricultural economy of our state.” “I respectfully request,” Congressman McHenry went on to write, “that after reviewing all collected data, you formally petition both President George W. Bush and Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns to declare the affected and eligible counties in my Congressional District – as well as the other counties across the state – as a designated natural disaster area.” According to the North Carolina Department of Agriculture’s (NCDA) preliminary damage assessment, nursery crops suffered the highest losses at $57.9 million. Fruits and vegetables – which include apples, peaches and various berries – suffered estimated losses of $26.5 million. Other crops affected by the freeze included corn, wheat, barley and Irish potatoes. Tenth District growers who have incurred losses should notify their local cooperative extension agent or Farm Service Agency (FSA) office as soon as possible. This is the best first step for those seeking assistance and will help officials get the information needed to prepare a disaster declaration request. Local farmers who need help locating their nearest extension agent or FSA office can contact Congressman McHenry's office toll free at 1-800-477-2576, or consult the following websites: FSA: http://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=nc&agency=fsa Extension Agents: http://www.ces.ncsu.edu/index.php?page=countycenters Federal law requires the governor of the affected state to petition the President and Secretary of Agriculture to declare that state’s eligibility for natural disaster assistance. The text of the Congressman’s letter to Governor Easley is below: April 13, 2007 The Honorable Michael F. Easley Governor of North Carolina 20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-0301 Governor Easley: As you are aware, our state saw record-breaking cold weather throughout the Easter holiday weekend that devastated a number of farmers’ crops in my Congressional District and across the entire state. As a result of the recent warm weather, a number of crop seeds began the blooming process earlier than anticipated. In particular, nursery stock and ornamental growers in Caldwell, Burke, Avery and Mitchell Counties saw significant damage. Apple, blueberry and strawberry growers in Cleveland, Lincoln and Catawba Counties all saw fruit seeds budding before this recent, unprecedented cold weather. With the combination of cold temperatures, strong winds and dry air, nursery stock, ornamentals and budding fruit seeds were the most vulnerable to the conditions and did not survive the freeze. Over the coming days, more data will become available as to the extent of the damage across the state due to this weather. On behalf of the farmers in my Congressional District and across the state, I ask that you carefully review all data while specifically keeping a watchful eye on the specialty crops grown in Western North Carolina – which are vital to the agricultural economy of our state. Additionally, I respectfully request that after reviewing all collected data, you formally petition both President George W. Bush and Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns to declare the affected and eligible counties in my Congressional District – as well as the other counties across the state – as a designated natural disaster area. I look forward to you taking action on this urgent matter for our state. If I can be of any further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Patrick McHenry Member of Congress
04.05.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced three successful firefighter grant-writing training sessions to round out his 2nd Annual Assistance to Firefighter Grant Workshops. Last month, the Congressman hosted workshops – presided over by Cherryville Fire Department Chief Jeff Cash – in Shelby, Lenoir, and Hickory, which included 54 total attendees from 28 local fire departments. “These workshops give our local fire departments a competitive edge in securing critical federal funds,” said Congressman McHenry. “I thank Chief Cash for lending his expertise to these sessions, which lay the groundwork for future funding to support greater public safety capabilities.” Last year’s cycle of Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) awards continue to be issued, and thus far, the Tenth District has received $2,336,673 in total grant funds directed toward 35 local departments. For example, Cleveland County fire departments received a $1 million regional grant to upgrade their communications to 800mhz and improve interoperability; this is the largest AFG grant ever awarded in North Carolina. “It's been a pleasure to serve as the instructor for Congressman McHenry's fire grant workshops,” said Chief Cash. “Fire and rescue personnel have no greater friend on Capitol Hill than Congressman McHenry. His solid support of emergency services is shown not just in how he votes in Congress, but in his sponsoring these kinds of workshops to assist local departments on the best grant-writing techniques.” The Congressman sent a letter announcing the workshops to every fire, rescue and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) departments in the Tenth District, and representatives from 90 percent of the district’s counties participated. At least one department in each county of the 10th District has received an AFG grant since Congressman McHenry began representing the Tenth District in 2005. City of Lenoir Fire Department Chief Ken Briscoe described the workshops as being, “a valuable tool for everyone who attended. I know our department is better prepared as we go into the application period because of the information that was provided.”
03.29.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today issued the following statement upon the House Democrats passing the largest tax increase in American history – $392.5 billion – as part of the largest federal budget in history, which checks in at $2.9 trillion. The 1993-1994 House Democrats held the previous record for raising taxes; they passed a $240 billion tax increase – which, interestingly, preceded the 1994 Republican Revolution. The Congressman’s statement is below: “The biggest difference between Republicans and Democrats is spelled out every time taxpayers check their bank statements,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Democrats talk about providing ‘a new direction’ while imposing the same, tired tax-and-spend fiscal philosophy they’ve pushed for 70 years. They voted to pickpocket taxpayers for bigger government, more spending, and less accountability. The Democrats are making the American people pay for what they got last November.” Republicans proposed an alternative budget, which balances the budget by 2012 without raising taxes. Additionally, it saves $279 billion by instituting reforms to entitlement programs, takes Social Security off the budget, increases veterans’ health care funds by $42.4 billion, and matches President Bush’s original funding request for our men and women in the military. The Democrats voted down this proposal by a measure of 268 to 160. The Democrats’ federal budget will impact millions of American taxpayers; the details of which are below: • 115 million taxpayers will see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,795 • 83 million women will see their taxes rise, on average, by $2,068 • 48 million married couples will incur average tax increases of $2,899 • Taxes will increase, on average, by $2,181 for 42 million families with children • 12 million single women with children will see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,082 • 17 million elderly individuals will incur average tax increases of $2,270 • Taxes will rise, on average, by $3,960 for 26 million small business owners • Over 5 million taxpayers who previously owed no taxes will become subject to the individual income tax
03.23.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry delivered the following statement on the House floor today regarding the Democrats’ $124 billion emergency war bill to fund our troops’ operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Democrats’ legislation directs over $13 billion in federal funds to spinach growers, tropical fish breeders, peanut storehouse construction, and livestock programs. A transcript of the Congressman's statement is below: "100 million for citrus growers? What does that do for our fighting men and women? $74 million for peanut storage? Well, that may be grand for peanut growers, but how does that help and protect our American way of life and our men and women in harm's way?""$25 million for spinach? Even kids don't like spinach – but Washington politicians do – so they can take their pork barrel projects home.""But here's the kicker in this supplemental appropriations bill – millions for livestock. That's the kicker because livestock funding is literally ‘pork’ for pork.""This is the most hypocritical bill we've seen in decades here on the House floor. It's wrong for our troops in battle, but it is a great gift for Washington Democrat politicians." "All the while we debate here on the floor, the Speaker of the House goes to raise money with fat cats in New York City. It is wrong for America and the American people should know about it." A Washington Post editorial today noted that, “As it is, House Democrats are pressing a bill that has the endorsement of MoveOn.org but excludes the judgment of the U.S. commanders who would have to execute the retreat the bill mandates. It would heap money on unneedy dairy farmers while provoking a constitutional fight with the White House that could block the funding to equip troops in the field. Democrats who want to force a withdrawal should vote against war appropriations. They should not seek to use pork to buy a majority for an unconditional retreat that the majority does not support.” Congress Daily reported yesterday that, “House Speaker Pelosi [was] confirmed to appear at a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) regional fundraising event in New York City [last night].”* Below is a sampling of Democrat earmarks included in our nation’s “emergency war funding” bill: $3 billion: Crop Disaster Assistance $400 million: Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program $283 million: Milk Income Loss Contract Program $120 million: Shrimp Fishing $100 million: Hurricane Citrus Program $74 million: Peanut Storage Subsidies $50 million: Capitol Power Plant $25 million: Spinach Growers $25 million: Livestock Producers $20 million: Frozen Farmland $5 million: Tropical Fish Breeding * “With Votes Still In Doubt, House To Debate Supplemental,” Congress Daily, 03.22.07
03.15.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced he is cosponsoring the A-PLUS Act, a piece of legislation that repeals No Child Left Behind’s (NCLB) one-size-fits-all approach to education by allowing states to opt-out of its federally prescribed mandates. The bill frees states from the federal requirements often tied to federal education funding and allows the implementation of initiatives developed to meet the unique needs of local students. “No Child Left Behind began as a noble idea to improve our nation’s educational system but ended up as a poorly implemented government program that hamstrings our local schools, teachers, and students,” said Congressman McHenry. “Teachers and parents, not bureaucrats in Washington, should be empowered with educating our students, offering them preparation and guidance initiated from Western North Carolina.” McHenry went on to say, “North Carolina’s educational standards are among the best in the nation. Our teachers are more than capable of doing their jobs without having the federal government micromanage their classrooms.” According to a study conducted by the National Association of Educational Progress, NCLB did not have a significant impact on improving reading and math achievement across the nation and the national average of achievement remains flat in reading and grows at the same pace in math as before NCLB. A-PLUS allows each state the option to submit to the Secretary of Education a declaration of intent, which gives that state full responsibility for the educational needs of its students. A-PLUS ensures that states are accountable to parents, schools, and the public for advancing the academic achievement of all students, especially disadvantaged children, but does so through local accountability plans rather than uniform federal mandates.
03.15.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry stood with members of the Republican Study Committee (RSC) in the U.S. Capitol and announced a fiscal reform agenda titled the American Taxpayer Bill of Rights. The proposal simplifies the tax code, protects Social Security, balances the budget without raising taxes, and restricts government spending. "The American Taxpayer Bill of Rights represents the first opportunity during this new Congress for true, bipartisan collaboration to benefit every taxpayer in our nation," said Congressman McHenry. "In 34 of the last 38 years, the federal government spent more than it made and right now we're looking at a $123 billion deficit. Balancing the budget requires greater fiscal restraint, not higher taxes - especially since our nation received $2.4 trillion in tax revenue last year, which is the largest amount in history. " McHenry went on to say, "Additionally, I don't know one person who fully understands our tax code, which is 7 times longer than the Bible. Here's the solution - let's scrap the whole thing and start over with a simpler, more comprehensible system." The American Taxpayer Bill of Rights declares that American taxpayers have: * The right to a government that doesn't grow faster than their ability to pay for it. - The proposal requires that the growth in government is held to a level that can be sustained and is equivalent to the growth American families experience. * The right to receive back each dollar that they entrust to the government for their retirement. - The proposal would prevent Congress from spending the Social Security trust fund on anything other than Social Security. * The right to a simple, fair tax code that they can understand. - The proposal sunsets all 7,000 pages of the tax code by 01/01/11. This would give us a fresh start to create a fairer, simpler tax system. * The right to expect the government to balance the budget without having their taxes raised. - The proposal calls for a constitutional amendment that requires Congress to balance the budget every year, and require a super majority in Congress to raise taxes.
03.09.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today released the following statement in response to the illegal alien traffic stop Wednesday night in Burke County. Authorities pulled over a sport utility vehicle packed with illegal aliens, but were forced to release them after Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials were not available to check the group’s immigration status. “Local law enforcement officials, not the illegal aliens, were handcuffed on I-40 last night – and their hands were tied by red tape and inadequate resources,” said Congressman McHenry. “The result is that these illegals aliens were set free into our community – and it represents the failure of Washington to seal off our borders as well as fully fund our nation’s ICE programs.” McHenry added: “Last year, I invited a bipartisan panel of local law enforcement officials to Gastonia for a Congressional field hearing on illegal immigration. The hearing brought to the forefront the absolute necessity for more federal funding to strengthen our ICE agents’ abilities to enforce our nation’s immigration laws. Additionally, there is a growing epidemic of illegal aliens filling our local jails – when they shouldn’t be in our country in the first place. This problem will not stop – in fact, it will grow worse – unless Washington takes a stand for our laws and against lawbreakers.”
03.08.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry’s amendment to forbid federal funds from going to lobbyists passed with full bipartisan support in the U.S. House of Representatives last night by a vote of 425 – 0. As the House debated H.R. 569, the Water Quality Investment Act of 2007, McHenry took to the floor to offer his amendment, which guarantees that the bill would not be used, in his words, “as a kickback to K Street.” McHenry went on to say: “This is a simple principle – put plainly, I am asking that members of the House follow the rules. If this House is truly committed to ‘severing the link between legislation and lobbyists’ – then members of Congress should vote for my amendment.” “From time to time, it’s important to challenge Congress’ words by calling for action,” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation is a gut-check for Congress. How will you explain to your constituents that you like the idea of limiting lobbyists’ influence – but not enough to do anything about it? Or even worse, vote against it?” H.R. 569 reauthorizes funding for the Clean Water Act, which provides grants to municipalities and states to replace or repair sewer systems. It passed, with McHenry’s amendment included, by a vote of 367 – 58. Over the past nine Congresses, less than 8 percent of motions to recommit have been adopted.
03.02.2007	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $101,022 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Bandy’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department in eastern Catawba County, and comes in the nineteenth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Eastern Catawba County is one of the fastest-growing areas in the Tenth District, and I am pleased that Bandy’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department received these funds so they can continue meeting the needs of such a developing area,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will allow the department to purchase new equipment to protect personnel, and thereby improves their ability to save lives.” Thus far, 33 fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $2,203,887. At least one department in each of the district’s 10 counties has received a grant.
02.22.2007	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $65,360 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Denver Volunteer Fire Department in Lincoln County, and comes in the eighteenth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The program aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Eastern Lincoln County is one of the fastest-growing areas in the Tenth District, and I am pleased that Denver Volunteer Fire Department has received these funds to enable the department to continue meeting the needs of such a developing area,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will allow the department to purchase new equipment to protect personnel, and thereby improve their ability to save lives.” Thus far, 32 fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $2,102,865. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds for the next several weeks.
02.03.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today released this statement upon news that Caldwell County Sheriff Gary Clark passed away Friday from complications related to cancer. “Yesterday Caldwell County lost a great leader and public servant when Sheriff Gary Clark went home to be with his Lord after a brief, but valiant fight against cancer. Those of us who knew and loved Gary grieve the loss of his friendship, but are grateful to know that he is no longer suffering.” “President Ronald Reagan once said, “A leader, once convinced a particular course of action is the right one, must have the determination to stick with it and be undaunted when the going gets rough.” Sheriff Gary Clark’s life exemplified the truth of this statement. He faced difficulty without flinching and remained resolute even in the face of odds that seemed insurmountable at times.” “Sheriff Clark cared deeply for the needs of families and children, relentlessly pursuing drug dealers and criminals. His love for the people of Caldwell County was evidenced by his diligence and faithfulness on the job. It was Sheriff Clark’s passion for fighting the scourge of meth that brought the White House Drug Czar to Caldwell County. His progressive, futuristic vision for law enforcement will create an enormous benefit for years to come.” “Gary had a great sense of humor and enjoyed spending time with family and loved ones. He was a reliable friend—one who could be counted on for support and encouragement. Unselfish and generous, Gary demonstrated the true meaning of love as a husband, father and friend.” “I will be forever grateful for the time God allowed me to know Sheriff Gary Clark and the tremendously positive influence he has had on my life. His loss is felt deeply by us all. Caldwell County lost a hero and heaven gained a treasure. My prayers are with his family and friends in this time of loss.”
02.02.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced he is joining the new Congressional Anti-Terrorism Caucus. The caucus is a bipartisan effort to educate Members of Congress – and the general public – about the threat Islamic Extremists pose to our nation. “Today, our nation is fighting a global war against Islamic Extremists – and make no mistake about it, this is our generational challenge,” Congressman McHenry said. “It was my grandparents' generation that fought the Nazis. It was my parents' generation that fought the Communists. It is our generation that is fighting Islamic Extremists wherever they are. The Anti-Terrorism Caucus has one fundamental purpose – provide a better understanding of our enemy, which will lead to greater success on both the domestic and international fronts.” There are currently more than 70 Members of this caucus, which is co-chaired by Reps. Sue Myrick (R-NC), Bud Cramer (D-AL), Kay Granger (R-TX), and Ben Chandler (D-KY). It meets twice a month where Members receive briefings from terrorism experts. A few of the subjects that will be discussed in the next several months include terrorists’ use of the internet, terrorist financing methods and ideological differences between moderate Muslims and extremists. “Terrorists don’t target Democrats or Republicans. They target Americans, and this is why we must face this issue as Americans,” Congresswoman Myrick said. “Members of Congress and the American public must know the threats we face from radical jihadist terrorists. This caucus will give Congress the tools and resources it needs to inform the public about these threats, as well as help them make more informed decisions when it comes to terrorist issues.” This caucus will help provide Members with more detailed information on terrorism so that Congress can create better policy and provide better oversight regarding terrorist threats. In addition, this caucus will help Members start an informed dialogue with the public regarding terrorism so that all Americans better understand the extent of the threat we face.
01.31.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry offered three amendments to the House Democrats’ massive $463 billion spending bill; his amendments would increase funding to the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and worker retraining programs. Democrats refused to bring up the measures for a vote in what can be described as a move toward more partisan politics and away from open, honest and fair legislative governance. The amendments’ spending increases would be wholly offset by common sense funding cuts in programs widely considered to be lower national priorities, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). “This is about honoring our fundamental priorities to support our veterans, stop illegal drugs from infiltrating our communities and retrain out workers for new, emerging industries,” Congressman McHenry said. “The Democrats were given a choice, and their decision is clear: They believe Big Bird deserves these funds more than our nation’s veterans, DEA agents and dislocated workers.” Democratic leadership used their majority party procedural advantage to shoot down McHenry’s amendments in the House Rules Committee yesterday. They argued that crafting a federal spending bill – even of this magnitude – warranted no input except for that of two Democrats, Sen. Richard Byrd (D-WV) and Rep. David Obey (D-WI). “Let’s put this in perspective: The Democrats spent $463 billion in two hours – that’s the same amount our nation has spent on the Global War on Terror since September 11th, 2001,” McHenry added. “They showed up, broke their own ‘no earmarks’ rule, wrote a check for nearly half-a-trillion dollars, and then skipped out of town for the rest of the week. How’s that for a ‘new direction’?” Congressman McHenry’s amendments to the Democrats’ spending bill called for: • A 1% across-the-board funding cut to all agencies except the Department of Veterans Affairs, and those funds will be allocated to the Veterans Health Administration • Increased funding for the Drug Enforcement Administration by $20 million offset by decreased funding for NASA by $20 million • Increased funding for dislocated worker employment and training activities by $20 million offset by decreased funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting by $20 million Interestingly, the Democrats’ “No Earmark Spending Bill” will fund these, among other, earmarks: • High Energy Petawatt Laser Development, University of Nevada-Reno, $2 million • High Energy Petawatt Laser Development, University of Texas, $2 million • UNLV Research Foundation, $2.5 million • Consortium on Terrorism and Fire Science, University of Nevada-Reno, $3 million • Operations and Security, Atomic Testing History Institute, $500 thousand • Radio Analytical Services Laboratory, UNLV Research Foundation, $2 million • Secure Wireless Technologies at Y-12, Tennessee, $2 million • National Center for Biodefense at George Mason University, $1 million • Science and Technical Programs, Wilberforce University, $2 million • Science and Technical Programs, Central State University (OH), $2 million • Science and Technical Programs, Vorhees College (SC), $1 million • Science and Technical Programs, Florida Memorial University, $1 million The Democrats passed H.J. Res 20 by a margin of 286 to 140; Mr. McHenry voted against the measure.
01.24.2007	Congressman Patrick McHenry today issued the following statement in response to House Democrats passing a measure to change House rules to give voting rights to non-state territory delegates. Residents from territories – including Guam, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and American Samoa – whose representatives will be given a vote under the Democrats’ plan do not pay federal income taxes. In what portends the possible motive of the Democratic leadership, 80% of the territory delegates who will be given greater voting privileges are Democrats. The Congressman’s statement is below: “Put plainly, the Democrats are cushioning their numbers and abusing their power. The Democrats’ power grab is the continuation of abusive policies they began on day one.” “Since day one, the Democrats shut down all debate. They shut down the committee process. They held open a vote to change the outcome. They rammed through the House the Speaker’s special interest project affectionately known as ‘TunaGate.’ And all this without working a full 5-day week. Clearly, this is an abuse of power.” “My constituents – all 619,178 of them – pay federal income taxes to have a rightful voice in Congress. But these territory delegates will have the power to increase spending, which will lead to raising taxes for everyone – everyone, that is, except the territory delegates’ own constituents.” “The Revolutionary War was fought over the idea of ‘taxation without representation,’ but the Democrats are pushing forward the policy of ‘representation without taxation.’” House Democrats passed H. Res. 78 today by a vote of 226 to 191. Congressman McHenry voted against the measure.
01.19.2007	To mark the end of the Pelosi 100 hour agenda, House Conservatives today reminded House Democrats of the promises made to Americans during the fall elections and the cost House Democrats have stuck the American taxpayers within the first ten days of Democrat control. “Speaker Pelosi and the Democrats promised action – and delivered hypocrisy. They promised an open, accountable government. They promised to end corruption in Washington. They promised to enact ALL of the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations. They promised to make college more affordable. And by my count, they’re 0 for 4,” said Congressman Patrick McHenry. Congressman Steve King (R-IA), Chairman of the Conservative Opportunity Society, said that while the Democrats promised an open and fair Congress, Capitol Hill has been under a cloud of secrecy since Speaker Pelosi took the gavel January 4th. “Their San Francisco leadership will say anything that makes a good sound bite about their first ten days, but the policies the liberal House leadership pushed on American taxpayers cost billions of taxpayer dollars and cripple our future economic and national security,” said King. While the Democrats successfully publicized their “first 100 hours” effort, the Democrat stopwatch of hours ran in a dubious way, the hours starting and stopping at irregular times and not matching the real time actually spent in session. In addition, Democrats pushed their bills through the House in lockdown mode without committee hearings. No Member was allowed the opportunity to amend legislation for improvement, although the Democrats promised “full hearings and open subcommittee and markups…[that bills would] come to the floor under a procedure that allows open, full and fair debate consisting of a full amendment process that grants the Minority the rights to offer its alternatives…”(“A New Direction for America, p. 24). “The Democrats’ first 100 hours were spent on watered-down initiatives that at best were ineffective and at worst were detrimental to our economy and citizens,” said Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA). “The Democrats showed their commitment to raising taxes and expanding the federal government. They also showed their willingness to forgo debate and process for sound bite solutions that do nothing to address the real problems facing our nation. The American people deserve better. We need sound policy, not sound bites.” Following is a list of costs to the country from Pelosi’s first 100 hour agenda: ► H.R. 1 costs taxpayers $6 billion (“House Passes Bill to Implement More of 9/11 Panel's Suggestions,” Washington Post, Jan. 10, 2007) ► H.R. 2 cripples 25.8 million small business owners in America who create 3 out of every 4 new jobs in the U.S. (Small Business Administration, WhiteHouse.gov) ► H.R. 3 forces taxpayers to pay up to $135 million to fund research that takes innocent American lives with unethical stem cell research (National Institute of Health Budget Office) ► H.R. 4 causes seniors on Part D to lose access to affordable, life-saving drugs (HHS Secretary Leavitt, “Medicare and the Market,” Washington Post, Jan. 11, 2007) ► H.R. 5 costs taxpayers $7.1 billion and will not help any American with current student loans (Congressional Budget Office; Department of Education) ► H.R. 6 increases our dependence on middle eastern oil and hurts families and seniors with higher energy prices
01.10.2007	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $88,540 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $88,540 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Crossnore Volunteer Fire Department in Avery County, and comes in the twelfth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that Crossnore Volunteer Fire Department has received these funds in the twelfth round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will enable the department to purchase new equipment to protect personnel and thereby improve their ability to save the lives of others.” Thus far, twenty-six fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $1,800,009. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds for the next several weeks.
01.10.2007	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $59,869 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $59,869 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Town of Catawba Volunteer Fire Department in eastern Catawba County, and comes in the twelfth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that Catawba Volunteer Fire Department has received these funds in the twelfth round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will enable the department to purchase new equipment including an exhaust ventilation system for the fire station.” Thus far, twenty-six fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $1,800,009. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds for the next several weeks.
01.08.2007	House Republican Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.) today announced his selection of North Carolina Congressman Patrick McHenry to be a Deputy Republican Whip for the 110th Congress. Deputy Whips are responsible for helping the Republican Whip and the Chief Deputy Republican Whip assist the Republican leadership in managing the party’s legislative program on the House floor. “Patrick will be an excellent Deputy Whip, and I am pleased that he has agreed to do this very important job,” Blunt said. “I look forward to working with him every day to move the Republican agenda forward in the House.” “It is an honor to serve as the Deputy Republican Whip,” stated Congressman McHenry. He went on to say, “My chief priority is to serve Western North Carolina by pushing forward the Republican agenda to keep America secure, fiscally strong and socially responsible – in other words, fight for conservative policies to strengthen our nation.” “Patrick and I and the rest of our team have a lot of hard work ahead of us in the House this year. I am confident that, with his help, we’ll continue getting the work done that the American people have sent us here to do,” Blunt continued. “Patrick McHenry’s new role will give North Carolina’s Tenth District an even bigger voice in the decision-making process in the House,” Blunt said. “This is a real win for Western North Carolina.” Blunt was first elected to Congress in 1996 and was elected Whip for the first time in 2002. The Republican Whip is the second-ranking member of the House Republican leadership, behind the Republican Leader. Virginia Congressman Eric Cantor serves as the Chief Deputy Republican Whip.
01.03.2007	Representatives Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Eric Cantor (R-VA), Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Tom Price (R-GA) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) today issued the following joint release, calling on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to support the Minority Bill of Rights – a House Resolution to implement the exact guidelines Pelosi outlined in 2004 as then-House Minority Leader. “The bottom line is that Speaker Pelosi thinks Minority Leader Pelosi is wrong,” Congressman Patrick McHenry said. “Speaker Pelosi and the Democrats campaigned on an open Congress and their first act is to shut down debate. The Minority Bill of Rights gives Pelosi a chance to lead with integrity instead of rule by force.” “In order for the House to adequately reflect the will of the American people, Republican members must be a part of the legislative debate,” Congressman Eric Cantor said. “Speaker-elect Pelosi is already backing out of her commitment to keep the debate open and fair. The pending Minority Bill of Rights legislation will ensure that House Republicans maintain their ground in the American legislative dialogue.” “Washington, D.C. has just enacted a smoking ban, yet somehow Nancy Pelosi and her liberal colleagues have found a way to lock themselves in a smoky backroom in the Capitol to make deals for the next two years,” Congressman Jeb Hensarling said. “Unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly clear that as the gavel comes down, the first action of the first Democratic Congress in twelve years will be to break a promise to the American people.” "After trumpeting minority rights for the past 12 years, Nancy Pelosi has an opportunity to promote her own proposals,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Democrats should not thrust a liberal agenda on the American people by blocking Republican participation in the legislative process. In my legislative career, I have served in the Minority and the Majority, and I know the process can be open. I urge Speaker Pelosi to extend the same rights to Republicans she fought for when in the Minority.” “As a matter of principle, it is important that elected officials be held accountable for what they say and do,” Congressman Tom Price said. “While on the campaign trail Democrats reiterated time and again they wanted to have the most open and fair government in history. This Minority Bill of Rights, which is the Speaker’s own proposal, will ensure that fairness. Adopting this legislation now would solidify the Democrats’ commitment to bipartisan cooperation in the new Congress. The Democrats have a choice; will they honor their pledge or will this empty rhetoric serve as just another broken promise?” Price added. The bill establishes a common sense framework, ensuring the minority party in the House is allowed to fully participate in legislative deliberations. Among other proposals, the resolution provides for a fair and bi-partisan Congress by protecting the democratic process of: offering alternative measures; allowing an open and full debate process; and mandating 24 hour-notification of bills and conference reports before a vote takes place. Highlights of the resolution are below: • Bills should only come to the Floor after full hearings, open subcommittee and committee markup, and with Members having a full 24 hours to review legislation prior to consideration at the subcommittee level. • Bills should normally be considered under a procedure that allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full amendment process that grants all members the right to offer amendments or substitutes. • Members should be allowed a full 24 hours to examine bills and conference reports before they come to the floor; and rules governing debate must be reported before 10:00 p.m. for a bill to be considered the next day. The Minority Bill of Rights implements the very guidelines that then-Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi proposed on June, 24, 2004 in a letter to then-Speaker Dennis Hastert. ###
12.13.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced $1.899 million in Economic Development Administration (EDA) investments to the Cleveland and Mitchell counties. The investments are expected to help create more than 470 jobs and generate more than $59 million in private investment.“It is fitting that this great news comes so close to Christmas!” said Congressman Patrick McHenry. “Economic development investments - like these in Cleveland and Mitchell counties - open a door of opportunity by strengthening our local workforce training programs. Going forward, education is the key to economic development and these investments pave the road for more jobs and better training - it's a win-win situation for our community.”“I applaud Mayland and Cleveland Community Colleges for securing this grant funding to help build critical job training facilities,” said Senator Elizabeth Dole. “I am a huge believer in our community colleges. They are leading the way in training and retraining workers for high growth fields, like health sciences. These workforce training centers will be tremendous assets to these North Carolina colleges and the communities they serve.” The investments include: · $1 million to the Cleveland Community College of Shelby to help build the Allied Health and Science Center for workforce training. The investment is expected to create 340 jobs and generate $37 million in private investment. · $899,000 to Mayland Community College of Spruce Pine to help build a health sciences workforce training facility. The investment is expected to attract $29.95 million in private investment and create 133 jobs. “President Bush and I are committed to partnering with communities to promote innovation and competitiveness. Through economic development grants like these, the Commerce Department will continue to encourage investments in local areas, grow the economy and create jobs,” said Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez. EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA’s mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy.Additional information on how EDA investments are helping distressed communities create a positive and sustainable economic future can be accessed at: http://www.eda.gov.
12.06.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $94,620 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $94,620 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Sawmills Volunteer Fire Department in Caldwell County, and comes in the eighth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that Sawmills Volunteer Fire Department has received these funds in the eighth round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will enable the department to purchase new air packs for all of its personnel thereby improving their safety and ability to save the lives of others.” Thus far, twenty-four fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $1,651,600. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
11.30.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry announces the First Lady of the United States Laura Bush today invited representatives from the Spruce Pine-based Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree project to visit the White House for the unveiling of this year’s White House Christmas trees – two of which are adorned with ornaments crafted by Western North Carolina artisans. “The Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree project is the very definition of using creativity to overcome adversity,” Congressman Patrick McHenry said. “I commend Shirley Hise, Patti Jensen and the local craftsmen and artists who contribute their skills to strengthen the economic and educational opportunities in Mitchell County.” “Mrs. Bush’s invitation to the White House and public recognition of this project shows – on an unprecedented scale – that Western North Carolina is blessed with innovative and dedicated people who are fighting to improve our region,” McHenry added. Congressman McHenry contacted Mrs. Bush’s office in July to recommend the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree project be a part of the White House’s 2006 Christmas celebration. The First Lady’s office notified the Congressman and Mrs. Hise in August to inform them that the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree operation was selected to participate. Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree representatives attended a decorators’ reception at the White House today hosted by Mrs. Bush. Two White House Christmas trees are presently garnished with 135 hand-blown red glass balls and 115 Carolina Snowflakes, courtesy of the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree collection. The project has created 30 individual small businesses that have produced quality, handmade products as part of the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree collection. The venture also serves as a scholarship tool, wherein a portion of the royalties received from product sales are used to fund a scholarship program for Mitchell County High School students. “This is a once in a lifetime chance for a small community such as Spruce Pine and Mitchell County,” Shirley Hise, Executive Director of the Mitchell County Chamber of Commerce, said. “Our county and town have experienced devastating losses over the past several years, having lost one-third of our manufacturing jobs in furniture and in textiles. However, our Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree project is a story of hope and courage in the life of a community that is trying to rebuild for the future.” Mrs. Hise went on to say, “Being featured in the White House Christmas for 2006 has brought excitement to our community. This is only something one dreams, and for us, it is a dream come true.” During the Christmas season of 2003, author Gloria Houston gave the rights to her award-winning children’s book, The Year of the Perfect Christmas Tree, to Mitchell County. Two years later, in 2005, the Mitchell County Development Foundation leased and renovated a retail facility in downtown Spruce Pine to serve as the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree store. The Foundation formed a Product Review Committee comprised of highly qualified craftspeople to designate product quality standards and conduct calls to artists for handcrafted products to be licensed as Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree merchandise. The Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree collection now features over 300 high quality products by 30 product makers from the mountain counties of Mitchell, Yancey, McDowell, Avery and Buncombe. Congressman McHenry and Mrs. Hise will be featured on Fox and Friends at 6:20 AM on Friday, December 1st to talk about the project and its positive effects in Western North Carolina. To order a catalogue or find more information on the Home of the Perfect Christmas Tree project, please visit: www.homeoftheperfectchristmastree.org or call toll free at 1-866-485-8733.
11.30.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $14,250 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $14,250 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Fallston Community Volunteer Fire Department in Cleveland County, and comes in the seventh round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. This is the third consecutive year that Fallston Community VFD has received an AFG grant. Fallston Community VFD’s grant comes just days after all sixteen fire departments in Cleveland County were collectively awarded $989,020 in AFG funds to upgrade communications equipment. That represented the largest Assistance to Firefighters Grant ever awarded in the state of North Carolina. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that Fallston Community Volunteer Fire Department has received these funds in the seventh round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will help the department update their equipment, improve operations and acquire the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Thus far, twenty-three fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $1,556,980. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
11.27.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $989,020 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to fire departments in Cleveland County. The grant was applied for by the Waco Volunteer Fire Department on behalf of all 16 departments in Cleveland County and comes in the sixth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. This is the largest single AFG grant ever awarded in North Carolina. The grant will be used to upgrade each department’s communications equipment to accommodate the county’s recent conversion to 800 megahertz communications. “This is certainly great news for Cleveland County,” said Congressman McHenry. “This regional grant will help every fire department in the county and represents a tremendous collaborative effort. Everyone involved should be commended for their hard work, especially Waco Fire Chief Kevin Gordon who took the lead in preparing the application and following it through the awards process.” “The citizens of Cleveland County are the ones who will ultimately benefit from this grant,” commented Cleveland County Manager David Dear. “These funds will have a positive and direct impact on the ability of our fire departments to respond and coordinate whenever they are called upon. We certainly appreciate Congressman McHenry’s assistance throughout the grant process.” Cleveland County has an excellent history with the AFG program. During the 2005 awards cycle, the county had six departments to receive an AFG grant, more than any other county in the Tenth Congressional District. Thus far in the 2006 awards cycle, nine fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $1,542,730. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
11.15.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $18,050 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $18,050 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to George Hildebran Fire and Rescue in Burke County, and comes in the fourth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that George Hildebran Fire and Rescue has received these funds in the fourth round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will help the department update their equipment, improve operations and acquire the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Thus far, eight fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $553,710. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
11.09.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $104,880 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $104,880 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Spruce Pine Fire and Rescue Squad in Mitchell County, and comes in the third round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that Spruce Pine Fire and Rescue has received these funds in the third round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will help the department update their equipment, improve operations and acquire the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Thus far, seven fire departments in the Tenth District have received AFG grants for a total of $535,660. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
11.03.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored four Catawba County World War II veterans during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. They were part of a group of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored four Catawba County World War II veterans during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. They were part of a group of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. “Our nation owes these men a debt of gratitude for their service,” stated the Congressman. “The sacrifices they made have allowed the rest of us to remain free.” Congressman McHenry presented the veterans with the following awards: L.D. Keesler – Private, First Class – U.S. Army (Retired) • Good Conduct Medal • European/African/Middle-Eastern Campaign Medal with One Bronze Service Star and One Silver Star with Arrowhead • World War II Victory Medal • Army of Occupation Medal with Germany Clasp • French Fourragere • World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button • Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar Robert Sanford – Specialist – U.S. Army (Retired) • Good Conduct Medal • Army of Occupation Medal with Germany Clasp • National Defense Service Medal Wilson Moser (Deceased) – Staff Sergeant – U.S. Army Air Corp Mr. Moser’s B-29 was shot down over the North Sea. Accepted posthumously by his daughter Allie Sue Ervin, grandson Jimmy Moser and granddaughter Vickie Moser. • Good Conduct Medal • Air Medal • American Campaign Medal • Asiatic/Pacific Campaign Medal with 3 Bronze Star Attachments • World War II Victory Medal Richard Ohmer – Sergeant – U.S. Army (Retired) • Good Conduct Medal • American Campaign Medal • Asiatic/Pacific Campaign Medal & Bronze Star Attachment • World War II Victory Medal • World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button • Marksman Badge “Many times, veterans do not realize that they are entitled to medals earned during their service until twenty or thirty years later,” explained Congressman McHenry. “And sometimes it is not until a veteran’s children or grandchildren begin looking into the matter that it becomes apparent just how much a veteran did - and the medals they deserve for their bravery and sacrifice.” Tenth District veterans who believe they may be eligible for service medals they never received are encouraged to contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 828-327-6100
11.03.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Iredell County Korean War veteran Oren Hawkins during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Hawkins was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Iredell County Korean War veteran Oren Hawkins during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Hawkins was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. Oren Hawkins is a resident of Troutman and served as a Corporal in the Army during the Korean War. “Our nation owes Mr. Hawkins a debt of gratitude for his service,” stated the Congressman. “The sacrifices he made have allowed the rest of us to remain free.” Congressman McHenry presented Mr. Hawkins with the following awards: • Good Conduct Medal • National Defense Service Medal • Korean Service Medal with Bronze Star Attachment • United Nations Service Medal • Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award • Republican of Korea Presidential Unit Citation “Many times, veterans do not realize that they are entitled to medals earned during their service until twenty or thirty years later,” explained Congressman McHenry. “And sometimes it is not until a veteran’s children or grandchildren begin looking into the matter that it becomes apparent just how much a veteran did - and the medals they deserve for their bravery and sacrifice.” Tenth District veterans who believe they may be eligible for service medals they never received are encouraged to contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 828-327-6100
11.03.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Gaston County Korean War veteran Harry Splawn during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Splawn was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Gaston County Korean War veteran Harry Splawn during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Splawn was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. Harry Splawn is a resident of Bessemer City and served as a Sergeant, First Class in the Army during the Korean War. “Our nation owes Mr. Splawn a debt of gratitude for his service,” stated the Congressman. “The sacrifices he made have allowed the rest of us to remain free.” Congressman McHenry presented Mr. Splawn with the following awards: • Good Conduct Medal • National Defense Service Medal • Korean Service Medal with Silver Service Star • United Nations Service Medal “Many times, veterans do not realize that they are entitled to medals earned during their service until twenty or thirty years later,” explained Congressman McHenry. “And sometimes it is not until a veteran’s children or grandchildren begin looking into the matter that it becomes apparent just how much a veteran did - and the medals they deserve for their bravery and sacrifice.” Tenth District veterans who believe they may be eligible for service medals they never received are encouraged to contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 828-327-6100
11.03.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Burke County World War II veteran, the late Fred Wilson, during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Wilson was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Burke County World War II veteran, the late Fred Wilson, during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Wilson was one of eight veterans receiving service medals from Congressman McHenry on Friday after his office researched their combat records and obtained the medals from the Department of Defense. Mr. Wilson was a resident of Burke County and served as a Private, First Class in the Army during World War II. His daughter, Barbara Wilson, accepted the medals posthumously on behalf of her father. “Our nation owes Mr. Wilson a debt of gratitude for his service,” stated the Congressman. “The sacrifices he made have allowed the rest of us to remain free.” Congressman McHenry presented Ms. Wilson with the following awards: • Bronze Star • Good Conduct Medal • Meritorious Unit Commendation • European/African/Middle Eastern Campaign Medal & Bronze Star Attachment • World War II Victory Medal • Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award • World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button “Many times, veterans do not realize that they are entitled to medals earned during their service until twenty or thirty years later,” explained Congressman McHenry. “And sometimes it is not until a veteran’s children or grandchildren begin looking into the matter that it becomes apparent just how much a veteran did - and the medals they deserve for their bravery and sacrifice.” Tenth District veterans who believe they may be eligible for service medals they never received are encouraged to contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 828-327-6100
11.03.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Catawba County World War II veteran Paul Williams during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Mr. Williams spent 27 months as a prisoner of war in a German POW camp. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) recently honored Catawba County World War II veteran Paul Williams during a special ceremony at the congressman’s district office in Hickory. Mr. Williams spent 27 months as a prisoner of war in a German POW camp. Williams served as a Private, First Class in the Army during World War II. “We cannot imagine the situation Mr. Williams lived through for over two years as a prisoner of war,” Congressman McHenry commented. “His sacrifice is something each of us should remember every day – he is a hero in every sense of the word. It is a true honor to be in his presence.” Paul Williams was captured by the Nazis in Algeria during the Northern Africa campaign. Congressman McHenry presented him with a certificate recognizing his service and sacrifice during a ceremony in which he presented service medals to seven other veterans of World War II and the Korean War.
11.02.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $9,500 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $9,500 in a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to a local fire department in the Tenth Congressional District. The grant will go to the Mountain View Fire Department in Catawba County, and comes in the second round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of my top priorities, and I am pleased that the Mountain View Fire Department has received these funds in the second round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will help the department update their equipment, improve operations and acquire the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Last year, there were 33 fire departments in the Tenth District that received AFG grants including at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties for a total of $2,740,790. This year’s awards will continue to be announced in rounds through the end of December.
10.25.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) condemned today’s ruling by the New Jersey State Supreme Court creating a new right to homosexual marriage in New Jersey. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) condemned today’s ruling by the New Jersey State Supreme Court creating a new right to homosexual marriage in New Jersey. “First Massachusetts and today, New Jersey, have shown us all why we desperately need a federal constitutional amendment protecting traditional marriage and we need it now,” commented McHenry after news of the court’s ruling broke. “A few liberal judges in these two states have abused their positions of trust by legislating from the bench. This is another attempt to destroy the institution that is the cornerstone of civilization and family life – marriage.” Massachusetts was the first state to sanction homosexual marriage in 2003. “From coast to coast, and yes, even in New Jersey and Massachusetts, families and people of faith are looking to those they elect to take action and protect marriage between one man and one woman from these deviant attacks,” Congressman McHenry stated. “Many states have adopted marriage protection amendments to their own constitutions and they should be applauded for that, but it is high time that Congress takes a lead and acts now to defend marriage at the national level.”
10.10.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry has been awarded the National Association of Manufacturers Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence in recognition of his continued support of American manufacturers and a pro-growth, pro-job agenda. The NAM Award is presented to members of Congress who vote in the best interest of the manufacturing economy at least 70 percent of the time on Key Manufacturing Votes as designated by a special committee of NAM member companies, large and small. McHenry’s voting record was an outstanding 96 percent. “McHenry’s voting record shows a true understanding of the key role manufacturing plays in the strength of our economy and our quality of life,” NAM President John Engler said. “Taken together, these key votes are critical to boosting American competitiveness, job creation and prosperity for working Americans. I thank Representative McHenry for his steady dedication to the economic growth agenda of the manufacturing community. “All too often in the political arena, sincere action is drowned out by flashy rhetoric,” Engler continued. “This NAM Award is the only real litmus test for our members, sorting out the true allies of manufacturing by their votes in support of a pro-growth, pro-jobs manufacturing economy.” Key Manufacturing Votes for the 109th Congress included free trade agreements, domestic energy supply and legal reform, among others. NAM Key Vote Cards are delivered to members of Congress prior to floor action to signal that an upcoming scheduled floor vote has been selected as a potential NAM Key Manufacturing Vote. Voting records for all members of Congress, including those who scored 70 percent or better to earn an Award, are available at www.nam.org/votingrecord along with further details about the Key Manufacturing Votes. -NAM-The National Association of Manufacturers is the nation’s largest industrial trade association, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., the NAM has 10 additional offices across the country. Visit the NAM’s award-winning web site at www.nam.org for more information about manufacturing and the economy.
10.06.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $421,280 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to five local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $421,280 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to five local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to fire departments in Caldwell, Catawba, Cleveland, Iredell and Rutherford Counties, and come in the first round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants and Training. “Helping our emergency services is one of the top priorities of my office, and I am pleased that the Tenth District was very well represented in the first round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants will help local fire departments update their equipment, improve operations and acquire the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Below are the grant recipients in the Tenth District: • Patterson Volunteer Fire Department (Caldwell County) – $81,490 • City of Conover Fire Department (Catawba County) – $165,927 • Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department (Cleveland County) – $37,896 • Town of Mooresville Fire Department (Iredell County) - $65,484 • Cherry Mountain Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. (Rutherford County) - $70,483 Last year, there were 33 fire departments in the Tenth District that received AFG grants including at least one department in each of the district’s ten counties for a total of $2,740,790.
09.27.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued the following response to Governor Mike Easley’s refusal to meet with the IBT Task Force regarding the Interbasin Transfer (IBT) proposal. Congressman McHenry sent a letter last Tuesday to Governor Easley, requesting a meeting involving local leaders from western North Carolina – deemed the “IBT Task Force” – to discuss stopping the IBT plan. In response, Governor Easley directed his assistant to contact the congressman’s office and decline the IBT Task Force meeting – instead, recommending that McHenry and the IBT Task Force meet with Franklin Freeman, the governor’s senior assistant. “As chief executive of the state, the buck stops with Governor Easley on the IBT proposal,” Congressman McHenry said. “His refusal to meet with me and local officials is one thing, but it’s another thing to stick his head in the sand and hope this public outcry goes away. Stopping the IBT plan is necessary to ensure future economic growth in our region – the governor better realize that we’ll continue to fight against this proposal.” “My message to the governor is this: Show some spine and take the meeting,” McHenry added. The IBT is a plan that could shift up to 36 million gallons of water per day from the Catawba River Basin into Concord and Kannapolis’ Rocky River Subbasin. “The issue is simple,” Congressman McHenry said, “if the IBT proposal is approved, our resources will be stolen to foster another community’s economic development and opportunities. The governor’s silence is an endorsement of a plan that will harm hundreds of thousands of people throughout western North Carolina. His refusal to discuss the proposal shows outright disrespect for all of us who will be affected by the water transfer.”“It is well-known that the governor keeps unconventional office hours. The IBT Task Force will accommodate his schedule and meet him anytime, any place, anywhere – this issue is too important for him to ignore,” McHenry said. “What is on the governor’s schedule that is so important that he can’t meet with us? Surely, he has 30 minutes to discuss this critical issue, which will determine the future of our region.” Led by Congressman McHenry, the IBT Task Force is comprised of: Burke County Commissioner Wayne Abele, Lincoln County Commissioner Tom Anderson, City of Lenoir Mayor David Barlow, Catawba County Commissioner Kitty Barnes, City of Conover Mayor Bruce Eckard, State Representative Mitch Gillespie, City of Valdese Mayor James Hatley, Caldwell County Commissioner Faye Higgins, State Senator Keith Presnell and City of Hickory Mayor Rudy Wright.“I call on Governor Easley – again – to accept the meeting with me and our local officials. It’s time for him to know, firsthand, exactly how bad the IBT proposal is,” McHenry said.
09.20.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) sent a letter Tuesday to North Carolina Governor Mike Easley, requesting a meeting involving local leaders from western North Carolina – deemed the “IBT Task Force” – to discuss stopping the proposed Interbasin Transfer (IBT). Congressman McHenry organized the task force to fight the IBT proposal. The meeting request is Congressman McHenry’s latest initiative to stop the proposed plan, which could shift up to 36 million gallons of water per day from the Catawba River Basin into Concord and Kannapolis’ Rocky River Basin. “The IBT proposal must be stopped, no exceptions,” Congressman McHenry said. “Along with our local elected officials, I am committed to pulling the plug on this proposal, which would not only seriously impact our lakes, but also our prospects for future economic growth in the region. The economic initiatives we’ve implemented in recent years will be greatly affected by a lack of water – less water means fewer economic development and opportunities in the decades to come.” Congressman McHenry initiated this meeting request as part of his ongoing strategy – which began in December 2005 – to challenge the IBT’s authorization. Apart from Congressman McHenry and Governor Easley, the IBT Task Force meeting would involve: Burke County Commissioner Wayne Abele, Lincoln County Commissioner Tom Anderson, City of Lenoir Mayor David Barlow, Catawba County Commissioner Kitty Barnes, State Representative Mitch Gillespie, City of Valdese Mayor James Hatley, Caldwell County Commissioner Faye Higgins, State Senator Keith Presnell, and City of Hickory Mayor Rudy Wright. “The public meetings were productive,” Congressman McHenry said, “because it got everyone in our area on the same page – our families, our neighbors and our coworkers. As chief executive of the state, the governor has the final authority on this proposal. Now it’s time to take our case directly to Raleigh – it’s time to hit the road.” On September 7th, Congressman McHenry sent a letter regarding his concerns over the IBT plan to all members of the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission (EMC) as well as Phil Fragapane at the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources. McHenry cited several alarming aspects to the plan that should be considered in the approval process. “There is substantial data that indicates the potential harm for communities upstream of the IBT could be far greater than the benefit realized by the targeted communities,” said Congressman McHenry in his letter to the EMC. “The IBT proposal also fails to address the fact that the Yadkin-Pee Dee River Basin already has a larger drainage source than the Catawba River Basin. There also appears to be some question as to whether or not the targeted communities are equipped to take full advantage of the increase water flow the IBT would create,” McHenry added. The text of Congressman McHenry’s letter to Governor Easley is below: September 18, 2006The Honorable Mike EasleyOffice of the Governor20301 Mail Service CenterRaleigh, NC 27699-0301Dear Governor Easley,I am requesting a meeting to discuss the proposed transfer of water from the Catawba River Basin for the purpose of meeting water usage demands in the Concord and Kannapolis area. Along with mayors and local leaders in the Catawba River Basin, I would appreciate a chance to sit down and discuss our concerns about the transfer and ask that the Environmental Management Commission move carefully and deliberately in this matter to avoid expanding the problem the IBT seeks to resolve. While a number of public meetings have been held on this issue, I have additional concerns on the matter. The key to maintaining a sufficient and sustainable water supply is good planning. Many of the water shortage issues we face today are the result of poor planning in the past. There appears to be a credible argument that the IBT plan, in an effort to mitigate past mistakes, is itself a mistake on a larger scale. I believe it is fair to say the decision makers in this process will and should be held accountable by the public if we are trying to figure out solutions in 10 years to shortages caused by the IBT.Please contact my office to set up a meeting at your earliest possible convenience to discuss this important issue to the communities in the Catawba Valley area. I appreciate your help on this matter. Sincerely,Patrick McHenryMember of Congress ###
09.19.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry’s office – in conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) – will host a Veterans Town Hall meeting at the Catawba Valley Community College (CVCC) Auditorium on Thursday, September 28, from 7:00pm to 8:30pm. The principal topic will be the new VA community-based outpatient clinic scheduled to open in Hickory during Fiscal Year 2007. The CVCC Auditorium is located next to the library on the college’s main campus, 2550 Highway 70, Southeast, Hickory, NC (phone: 828-327-7000). “This town hall is a forum for our local veterans to get information and pose any questions they may have about our new VA clinic,” Congressman McHenry said. “I am proud that veterans in our area will be able to receive quality health care in a convenient and timely manner. Our veterans deserve top grade medical services, and once completed, this new facility will go a long way in making that a reality.” Congressman McHenry’s staff will be available outside the auditorium prior to and during the meeting to answer questions regarding veterans-related issues. Anyone with a Veterans Affairs question who cannot attend the town hall is advised to contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 1-800-477-2576 (toll-free). The purpose of the meeting is to “hear from veterans and others in the community about their health care needs and to discuss the administrative and clinical aspects of this new VA clinic,” according to Daniel F. Hoffmann, Director of the VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network. The network, one of 21 VA integrated health care systems nationally, is headquartered in Durham and manages eight VA medical centers and 15 outpatient clinics across North Carolina, Virginia, and a portion of West Virginia. Management of the Hickory clinic, which will be staffed by VA to national performance standards, will be the responsibility of staff at the Salisbury VA Medical Center. This will be the third clinic managed from Salisbury – others are in Charlotte and Winston-Salem. On hand to discuss the primary care and mental health services planned for the Hickory clinic will be the network’s Chief Medical Officer Dr. Mark Shelhorse, Dr. Sidney Steinberg, Salisbury VA Medical Center’s chief of staff, Dr. Dave Raney, Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN-6) Communications Officer, and Mr. Donald Moore, Salisbury VA Medical Center’s director. Hoffmann noted that VA community-based outpatient clinics enhance access to health care services closer to where the majority of veterans reside. He emphasized that “an outpatient clinic such as the one in Hickory is not a full-service hospital, but it will offer a variety of primary care and mental health services.” Hoffmann indicated that veterans needing additional services can be referred to Salisbury or other VA Medical Centers. Further information about the town hall meeting is available from Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at 1-800-477-2576 and the VA Mid-Atlantic Network at 919-956-5541. Please be advised that the doors will open at 6:30 pm.
08.18.2006	On Friday, August 25 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy, and Human Resources, will be holding a Congressional field hearing on illegal immigration in U.S. Rep. Sue Myrick’s Gastonia Congressional office. The title of the hearing is "Empowering Local Law Enforcement to Combat Illegal Immigration."At this hearing, the public will hear testimony from witnesses regarding the 287 (G) program, which federally deputizes local law enforcement officers to assist with immigration law enforcement. There will also be testimony about the Scott Gardner Act, which would deport illegal aliens convicted of a DWI. Subcommittee Chairman Representative Mark Souder (IN-3) will moderate the field hearing. He will be joined by Rep. McHenry, Rep. Myrick, and other Members of Congress from North Carolina on a panel that will be asking questions of the witnesses.The field hearing will begin promptly at 10:00am. The public is invited to attend this special hearing, however space is limited. Anyone wishing to attend must RSVP to Myrick’s office at 704-861-1976. WHAT: Government Reform Illegal Immigration Field HearingWHEN: Friday, August 25, 2006 at 10:00 AMWHERE: 197 West Main Ave (Downtown)Gastonia, NC(704) 861-1976
07.31.2006	Congressman McHenry will be hosting town hall meetings from Monday, July 31 through Friday, August 11 in all 10 counties of North Carolina’s Tenth District. “The most important part of my job is listening to the people of Western North Carolina – and this is a great opportunity for citizens to make their voices heard,” Congressman McHenry said. “I want everyone to bring questions on improving our local economy, protecting jobs, cutting taxes, stopping illegal immigration, ensuring family values – as well as any other issues that are most important to them,” McHenry added. Below is the information on the town hall meeting that will be held in your county. IREDELL COUNTY WHAT: Iredell County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Iredell County Citizens WHEN: Monday, July 31 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Town Commissioners’ Chambers Mooresville Town Hall 413 North Main Street Mooresville, NC 28115 CATAWBA COUNTY WHAT: Catawba County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Catawba County Citizens WHEN: Tuesday, August 1 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Catawba Valley Community College Auditorium 2550 Hwy. 70 SE Hickory, NC 28602 LINCOLN COUNTY WHAT: Lincoln County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Lincoln County Citizens WHEN: Wednesday, August 2 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: County Commissioners’ Chambers James Warren Lincoln County Citizens Center 115 West Main Street Lincolnton, NC 28092 BURKE COUNTY WHAT: Burke County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Burke County Citizens WHEN: Thursday, August 3 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Moore Hall, Western Piedmont Community College 1001 Burkemont Avenue Morganton, NC 28655 GASTON COUNTYWHAT: Gaston County 'Open Door to Congress' Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Gaston County Citizens WHEN: Friday, August 4 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Cherryville Community Building106 South Jacobs Street Cherryville, NC 28021AVERY COUNTY WHAT: Avery County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Avery County Citizens WHEN: Monday, August 7 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Evans Auditorium, Lees-McRae College 375 College Drive Banner Elk, NC 28604 MITCHELL COUNTY WHAT: Mitchell County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Mitchell County Citizens WHEN: Tuesday, August 8 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Mitchell County Courthouse Meeting Room Upstairs Bakersville, NC 28705 RUTHERFORD COUNTY WHAT: Rutherford County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Rutherford County Citizens WHEN: Wednesday, August 9 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: School Board Meeting Chambers Rutherford County Schools Administration Building 382 West Main Street Forest City, NC 28403 CLEVELAND COUNTY WHAT: Cleveland County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Cleveland County Citizens WHEN: Thursday, August 10 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Charles A. Harry Cleveland County Administration Building 311 East Marion Street Shelby, NC 28151 CALDWELL COUNTY WHAT: Caldwell County ‘Open Door to Congress’ Town Hall WHO: Congressman McHenry & Caldwell County Citizens WHEN: Friday, August 11 from 7 PM to 9 PM WHERE: Caldwell County Public Library 120 Hospital Avenue Lenoir, NC 28645
07.19.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today voted to uphold President Bush’s veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810), a piece of legislation that uses taxpayer dollars to support and encourage a line of research requiring the intentional destruction of living human embryos for the derivation of their cells. Congressman McHenry statement is below: “I applaud President Bush for following up on his promise to the American people and vetoing legislation that uses taxpayer money to harvest embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cell research is morally wrong because it’s based on the concept that you create life to destroy it. Scientific discovery should never compromise our moral integrity.” “The government has no business funding research that ends life while carrying the banner of scientific progress – this is not progress; it’s a breakdown in medical ethics.” “Additionally, embryonic stem cell research has not produced a single medical treatment – whereas ethical, adult stem cells have been used to treat 72 diseases and conditions, such as cerebral palsy and spinal cord injuries. We must use methods based on principle. Methods that have a proven track record of success. Methods that do not destroy human life.” “Medical breakthroughs should improve life, not take life.” The U.S. House of Representatives failed to reach the two-thirds majority necessary to overturn the president’s veto today; the final tally was 235 to 193.
07.19.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today voted to protect our Pledge of Allegiance by preventing judicial activists from questioning the constitutionality of the phrase “under God.” Additionally, the Pledge Protection Act impedes attempts by the federal courts to ban the Pledge of Allegiance from schools because it mentions “One nation, under God.” The Congressman’s statement is below: “Without a doubt, America is a blessed nation and the words “under God” pay homage to the source of that divine favor. The liberals who attempt to use the courts to strip this recognition from our Pledge of Allegiance are showing their hatred for the Higher Power who endows us with freedom at birth and liberty for life.” “Our Pledge of Allegiance reaffirms the loyalties that distinguish us from other nations around the world: God, country and family.” The Pledge Protection Act (H.R. 2389) prohibits any federal court – including the U.S. Supreme Court in an appellate case – from hearing or deciding any question pertaining to the interpretation of, or the validity under the Constitution of, the Pledge of Allegiance. As such, the bill would not affect any state court’s ability to hear a state case regarding the Pledge, though any decision from such a case would affect only that one state. The following organizations publicly supported the Pledge Protection Act: Family Research Council, Eagle Forum and Traditional Values Coalition. H.R. 2389 passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 260 to 167.
07.18.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today voted for the Marriage Protection Amendment (H.J. Res. 88), a piece of legislation that provides a national definition of marriage as between a man and a woman and leaves marriage laws to the state legislatures. Furthermore, it adds a layer of protection against court-imposed arrangements other than marriage and protects states from being forced to recognize same-sex unions created by other states. Congressman McHenry’s statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives is below: “Marriage, family and community are not catch phrases – they are the backbone of American society. Sadly, however, there is an organized effort by judicial activists and the radical left to destroy our traditional American culture.” “Years of social science evidence confirms that children respond best when their mom and dad are married and live at home. That’s why marriage and family law has emphasized the importance of marriage as the foundation of family – to address the needs of children in the most positive, effective way.” “We must defend what is sacred in our nation from the reckless actions of a dangerous few who seek to impose their liberal lunacy on our society. Fighting for families is a war worth waging.” While the vote was 236-187 (an eight vote increase from 2004 vote,) it did not have enough support from 159 Democrats to clear the requirement that a constitutional amendment pass with two-thirds vote.Please click here to view Congressman McHenry's speech supporting the marriage amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.13.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued the following statement upon voting against H.R. 9, a piece of legislation based on 1964 statistics amending the Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965 to extend for 25 more years. It says states are subject to so-called “Section 5” requirements if they have used any type of test or legal device to inhibit voting – which none of the states now do – or if their voter turnout in the 1964 presidential election was less than half the state's voting-age population. Additionally, the Voting Rights Act imposes a federal mandate that multilingual ballots be used in covered jurisdictions. Forty North Carolina counties – including Cleveland and Gaston counties – will be covered under the VRA reauthorization. The Congressman’s statement is below: “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was an important piece of legislation. Today, America is a different place – there’s no poll tax, no literacy test and no systematic discrimination or prevention of any citizen from voting in our elections.” “What was passed today does not acknowledge any progress in race relations in our country. Rather, it uses 1964’s voting statistics to judge whether or not a state or county discriminates today. People in 2032 will be living under this law because of the actions of their great-great grandparents.” “Furthermore, the bill mandates multilingual ballots – even though new citizens to this country are required to know the English language.” “Some politicians in Washington wouldn’t dare vote against this bill because they’d be lambasted by the media and many interest groups. I will not go along with bad public policy in the name of political correctness – I was elected to do what was in the best interest of my constituents and my country. This bill is a 1960s solution in a 21st century world. It is the wrong direction for America.” According to a study prepared for the American Enterprise Institute[1] (AEI), sizeable progress has been achieved in North Carolina’s voting rights: The 2004 Census Bureau estimates show African Americans comprise 20.5% of the state’s voting age population while they currently hold 15.3% of the seats in the legislature. The disparity between black and white voter participation has declined dramatically over the past two decades, as the two races are now less than 3 points apart on rates of participation. The old disparity in black and white registration rates in North Carolina has been substantially reduced and, in fact, was eliminated in the 2004 election with African Americans reporting higher rates of registration than whites. Additionally, in 2004, the Census Bureau estimates that African American voter participation at the polls was 63.1% while it was only 58.1% for whites. African American voter participation rates in North Carolina are sometimes exceeding black voter participation rates outside of the South. According to the Congressional Research Service, at present, there are 16 states – in whole or in part – that are covered by the VRA. According to the Code of Federal Regulations, those states are: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California (5 counties), Florida (5 counties), Georgia, Louisiana, Michigan (2 counties), Mississippi, New Hampshire (7 counties), New York (5 counties), North Carolina (40 counties), South Carolina, South Dakota (2 counties), Texas, and Virginia. The Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006 (H.R. 9) was passed in the House today by a vote of 390 to 33. [1] “An Assessment of Voting Rights Progress in North Carolina” (2006) By Charles S. Bullock III and Ronald Keith Gaddie, prepared for the American Enterprise Institute – available at this link.
07.06.2006	Congressmen Patrick McHenry (R-NC) and Charles Taylor (R-NC) today announced the U.S. House of Representatives approved a $500,000 federal grant to the North Carolina Center for Engineering Technologies – based in Hickory – through the Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations Act for FY 2007 (H.R. 5672) to support a workforce development program. “The Engineering Center is a special collaboration between higher education, manufacturing and government partners, working together to boost the economic development initiatives in our region,” Congressman McHenry said. “I applaud Congressman Taylor for his help in securing these funds, which will support our ongoing efforts to equip Western North Carolina’s workers with the necessary tools for new and emerging jobs. This is a great step for our region and a solid marker that economic progress is underway.” “In order for Western North Carolina to grow and prosper, we have got to work together as a region,” Congressman Taylor said. “This project is a perfect example of that type of regional co-operation. Workers with engineering skills are crucial in order to attract new jobs, and these funds will help to ensure that Western North Carolina has that valuable recruitment tool.” Future Forward – an Economic Development Administration-sponsored entity – acquired a 55,200-square-foot facility that will house a variety of vocational, engineering and technology programs provided through the University of North Carolina (UNC) and the community college systems. Western Carolina University will offer the initial degree program in engineering technology beginning later this year following renovation of the facility as a higher education center. Ultimately, the facility will become a part of the UNC system. “I appreciate Congressmen McHenry and Taylor for their commitment in keeping this project moving forward,” Phil Walker, co-chairman of the Partners for the North Carolina Center for Engineering, said. “This is one more step toward developing our job center and we’re moving in the right direction.” A fundraising campaign to purchase and renovate the building, as well as provide initial equipment, has generated commitments totaling more than $1.6 million in cash and in-kind commitments from public and private sources, including $200,000 grants from the City of Hickory and Catawba County and $100,000 from Caldwell County. Support from the private industry has come from Continental Teves, Caterpillar Inc., Shuretape Technologies Inc., BB & T and Wachovia, among others. “Education is the key to economic growth, and we’ll continue pushing to fund the initiatives that will ensure our region is a magnet for futures industries,” Congressman McHenry added. The House passed H.R. 5672 by a vote of 393 to 23. The bill has been received by the Senate where it now awaits action.
06.19.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today chaired the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs field hearing in New York City to examine Sarbanes-Oxley’s regulatory impact on the U.S. stock markets in terms of liquidity, competitiveness and the overall health of the U.S. markets. Additionally, this hearing evaluated the net benefits of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including value-added by Section 404 compliance for investors, as well as business. “I've met with many bank and business leaders in North Carolina as well as around the country – and they agree: Sarbanes-Oxley has made a dramatic, and sometimes negative, impact on the capital markets,” Congressman McHenry said. “Transparency in corporate governance is important. However, as a rule, less government regulation translates to more productivity, economic expansion and job growth – this hearing will study the marketplace costs and benefits of this legislation.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was passed in the wake of the Enron and WorldCom corporate scandals with the intent of restoring trust in our nation’s financial markets. The legislation covers issues such as establishing a public company accounting oversight board, auditor independence, corporate responsibility and enhanced financial disclosure. It was designed to review legislative audit requirements, and is considered one of the most significant changes to U.S. securities laws since the New Deal in the 1930s.
06.09.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced that Jody Owens, a Spruce Pine student who will be entering his senior year at Mitchell High School, completed his second term in the U.S. House of Representatives’ Republican Page Program. “I am proud of Jody and the hard work he put into the page program,” Congressman McHenry said. “He represented the 10th district with dignity and class – and for that, he should be commended.” “First and foremost I thank God for allowing me to do this and I really appreciate Congressman McHenry for giving me such an amazing opportunity,” Jody Owens said. “This is a lesson that you should always pursue your dreams. Never let anyone tell you that you can’t do anything – if they do, do it, and prove them wrong.” Owens served two terms in the page program from September 2005 through June 2006. Students participating in the page program attend classes at the Library of Congress to fulfill their high school curriculum requirements. Additionally, pages are responsible for filing the previous day’s Congressional Record and serving as messengers, delivering legislative material between various buildings on Capitol Hill. The page program offers an extraordinary opportunity for high school students to interact with Members of Congress and Congressional staff. Applicants to the page program must be nominated by their Congressman and be at least 16 years of age at the time of their appointment. Applicants must also have a cumulative grade point average of a “B” or better in the five major subjects. Students interested in applying for the Republican Page Program should contact Jason Suslavich in Congressman McHenry’s office at (202) 225-2576.
06.09.2006	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the 2007 foreign operations appropriations bill which includes Congressmen Patrick McHenry’s (R-NC) amendment barring the State Department from issuing waivers to foreign countries that refuse to extradite anyone who allegedly killed a law enforcement officer in the United States. “Killing a police officer is one of the most egregious crimes,” Congressman McHenry said, “and we should have the right to seek justice for the families of slain officers. My amendment puts teeth back into the original legislation and will put the pressure on countries who gladly take our money while thumbing their noses at our laws.” The appropriations bill prohibits aid to any country that fails to extradite suspects accused of killing federal, state and local law enforcement officers – including police officers, judges, parole officers or any officer in the criminal justice system. However, it allows the Secretary of State to waive the prohibition if she certifies to Congress that the application of the restriction to the country or countries is contrary to the national interest of the United States. Congressman McHenry’s amendment strikes the waiver exception, so the State Department would be prohibited from providing assistance to any country that refused a U.S. extradition request, regardless of national interest concerns. This amendment was originally offered last year by Congressman McHenry and Congressman Bob Beauprez (R-CO) and passed in the House by a vote of 327-98. The State Department’s waiver option was inserted in the legislation during the House-Senate conference following the bill’s passage in the House. McHenry’s amendment returns this legislation to its original intent, prohibiting foreign assistance funds from being provided to countries that refuse to extradite to the U.S. individuals accused of killing a law enforcement officer. The McHenry-Beauprez legislation was initially written after several cases where police officers were allegedly murdered by illegal aliens who then fled abroad, and have not face extradition due to foreign laws prohibiting extradition when capital crimes are involved. One case involves a convicted felon, now in Mexico, who had been deported three times before allegedly killing Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy David March in 2002. The felon remains there today, essentially escaping justice. “When countries do not extradite their most violent criminals, it actually creates a twisted incentive to be even more violent in their crimes,” Congressman McHenry said on the House floor earlier today. “The more violent the crime, the tougher the sentence here in the United States; and the tougher the sentence, the less likely it is that these cop-killers will be extradited.” “My amendment eradicates this brutal incentive that puts our law enforcement officers at heightened risk,” McHenry added. The McHenry amendment was agreed to by voice vote today in the House as part of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2007 (H.R. 5522). The appropriations bill passed in the House today by a vote of 373 to 34.
05.28.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) participated in a surprise ceremony Sunday, May 28 at 10:30 a.m. in the Shuford YMCA honoring two local soldiers and one local nonprofit organization as part of Christ Alive Church’s “Making Your Dreams Come True” contest. The Congressman presented the soldiers’ families with plaques commending their service to our nation and subsequently addressed the congregation with a Memorial Day-themed message. “I was humbled to be a part of this special ceremony,” Congressman McHenry said. “Senior Pastor Mark Ivey, Associate Pastor Jimmy Chase and the Christ Alive Church deserve the highest praise for their bold, positive impact in Catawba County. Not only are they making dreams come true, but they’re setting a high water mark for giving back to those who’ve given so much for us.” “As we approach Memorial Day, we are reminded of the courageous sacrifices our soldiers and their families are making every day. May God continue to bless them for their selfless, earnest dedication to our nation,” Congressman McHenry added. The first contest winner was Specialist Barry McMurtry, a 26-year-old United States Army soldier on his second tour in Iraq. His two children, Xavier McMurtry (2-years-old) and Caiden McMurtry (four and one-half months old), and wife, Rainbow McMurtry, reside in Hickory, NC. A “Making Your Dreams Come True” application was submitted by a family friend on behalf of Specialist McMurtry; he received a laptop and webcam to communicate with his wife and two sons. The computer equipment was shipped to his commander earlier this month and will be presented to him Sunday in Iraq by Major Michael Ritchart. This second contest winner was Staff Sergeant Ricky Corn who is stationed in Iraq with the United States Marine Corps. Gena James of Newton, NC submitted an application on his behalf, knowing his mother, Debbie Metz of Newton, NC, would like to communicate more with her son. Pastor Chase presented his family with an international calling card, along with care packages for Staff Sergeant Corn and his troupe, which were donated by two children's ministries, a youth group and a missions committee. The final contest winners were representatives from the House of Hope – a Hickory-based, non-denominational, pending non-profit organization for hurting and troubled individuals – who will be awarded a new dishwasher. "Someone believed in a dream five years ago to start a church plant in Newton, NC and they planted a seed of $10,000,” Jimmy Chase, Associate Pastor of Christ Alive Church, said. “Christ Alive Church is now paying it forward by making several Catawba County residents' dreams a reality.” “From home repairs and equipment such as a heating and cooling unit, to a complete wedding with honeymoon, Making Dreams Come True – Christ Alive Church's community partnership program – has planted seeds of hope and help in the lives of its neighbors," Associate Pastor Chase said.
05.26.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) will host a reception on Tuesday, May 30 at 4 p.m. in the Congressman’s Hickory district office (87 Fourth Street, NW, Hickory, NC 28603) to honor seven local students who were recently appointed to service academies. Tuesday’s reception will honor: • Jenna Bordash, St. Stephens High School, daughter of Vincent and Anna Bordash, admitted to the United States Naval Academy • Julian Bowling, McCallie School (Chattanooga, TN), son of Richard and Susan Bowling of Shelby, admitted to the United States Naval Academy • Elijah Lackey, Hickory Christian Academy, son of Donald and Beth Lackey of Hickory, admitted to the United States Military Academy at West Point • James Madison, Avery High School, son of James Madison and Belinda Bippus of Newland, admitted to the United States Naval Academy • Tyler Magerkurth, Hickory High School, son of Brian and Valerie Magerkurth of Hickory, admitted to United States Military Academy at West Point • Kerry Michaud, Newton-Conover High School, son of Paul and Kathie Michaud, admitted to the United States Naval Academy • Derek Potter, South Caldwell High School, son of Terry and Terri Porter of Granite Falls, admitted to the United States Air Force Academy “I was proud to nominate all of them to service academies earlier this year; they’re very deserving and talented young people,” Congressman McHenry said. “I am confident their admission is but the first step in a long line of success, marked by their brave and dutiful service to our nation.” Seven of the 16 students from the 10th District that received service academy nominations from the Congressman were admitted into three service academies, including the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated from an authorized person including a Member of the United States Senate or the House of Representatives. Nominations centered on several criteria including: consistently strong academic performance, physical fitness, participation in leadership positions within his or her school as well as community and a strong commitment to pursuing a career in the Armed Forces. Congressman McHenry tapped 11 local veterans to serve on his Military Advisory Committee, the group that joined the Congressman in interviewing the 19 local applicants and determining the 16 nominations. Committee members were chosen based on several conditions including past military service, recommendations from local citizens and elected officials and/or graduation from a service academy.
05.12.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced Forest City is the recipient of a $200,000 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Brownfields Cleanup Program Grant to further the Florence Mill Redevelopment Project. The funding will support phase one of the project, focusing on the decontamination of hazardous substances currently present on the Florence Mill site. “This is a huge win for Forest City,” Congressman McHenry said. “This much-deserved grant is not a step – it’s a leap – toward furthering Rutherford County’s economic development and revitalization.” “I applaud Danielle Withrow and Mayor Gibson for their diligence and resourcefulness in bringing these federal funds to Forest City,” Congressman McHenry added. The Florence Mill Redevelopment Project is two years in the making, and once completed, is projected to create at least 100 jobs within the mill property itself. After completing the first step – the Florence Mill cleanup – phase two will address commercial development along the southern boundary of the redevelopment area. "The announcement from Congressman McHenry's office on the EPA Brownsfields grant award is especially timely since we also received the Brownfields Agreement from the state this week,” Danielle Withrow, Town Planner, said. “This grant will enable the town to begin the cleanup of the property and move forward with the development. That's long awaited news for us." “The town is elated and very grateful to the Congressman for his help,” Harold Stallcup, Mayor Pro Tem, said. “It will be used to clean up a bad area in the center of town, and we’re hopeful it will help promote further economic development.” This funding will go toward executing the initial cleanup steps outlined in the project’s plans, which include: Developing a construction plan Abandoning existing monitoring wells Removing contaminated soil and replacing with clean soil Installing a passive vapor collection system Installing one groundwater and five vapor monitoring wells Ongoing groundwater and vapor well monitoring The Florence Mill site is thought to have been contaminated by hazardous spills originating from the dry cleaners onsite and adjacent to the facility. These activities occurred prior to Forest City taking ownership of the site in August of 2004. ###
05.10.2006	The Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, chaired by Rep. Spencer Bachus (AL), will hold a legislative hearing on H.R. 3206, the Credit Union Charter Choice Act, on Thursday, May 11, at 10 a.m. in room 2128 Rayburn House Office Building. Introduced by Rep. Patrick McHenry (NC) on July 12, 2005, H.R. 3206 would amend the Federal Credit Union Act regarding conversion of a credit union charter to a mutual savings bank or savings association charter, and the nature of disclosures made by a converting credit union to its members. “I put forward this legislation to establish consistent, reasonable guidelines for credit unions converting their charters,” Rep. McHenry said. “The process should be fair, transparent, and efficient – while giving credit union members more control over their own destinies.” H.R. 3206 aims to make the conversion process more clearly defined and uniform by delineating what a converting credit union must disclose to members and how the conversion vote is held. Notice of a conversion would be required to include: the dates that the membership vote will be taken; the dates by which ballots must be received to be counted; a brief statement of why the credit union’s directors are considering a conversion and the board’s recommendation; and a brief statement of the material effects of conversion on the credit union and the members. A credit union would not be required to include in a notice any statement that is speculative, inaccurate, or distorting regarding the conversion and future of the institution. “Charter choice is important for credit unions, and it must be maintained in an open yet practical fashion. By examining Rep. McHenry’s legislation, we will better understand how the process works and what improvements to consumer protection, if any, should be made,” Subcommittee Chairman Bachus said. Credit unions are member-owned cooperatives with salaried management and volunteer, member-elected boards of directors. Credit unions do not issue capital stock, but are not-for-profit entities that build capital through retained earnings. They may only serve an identifiable group of people with a common bond of occupation, affiliation, or community, referred to as a field of membership. Reasons for converting include field of membership restrictions, limits on lending and investment powers, and the need to raise capital in order to grow. House Financial Services Committee Chairman Michael G. Oxley (OH) said, "I appreciate the work Representative McHenry has done on this important legislation. Charter choice among depository institutions is an important principle we must uphold. In making this choice, it is essential that consumers, whether the members of a credit union or depositors in a thrift or bank, must be fully informed, and regulators must ensure transparency in a fair and balanced manner." Scheduled to testify: Panel I The Honorable JoAnn Johnson, Chairman, National Credit Union Administration Scott Polakoff, Deputy Director and COO, Office of Thrift Supervision Panel II Laurie Stewart, President and CEO, Sound Community Bank, representing America’s Community Bankers Marcus Schaefer, President and CEO, Truliant Federal Credit Union, representing the National Association of Federal Credit Unions Tom Dorety, President and CEO, Suncoast Schools Federal Credit Union, representing the Credit Union National Association Harris Simmons, Chairman and President, Zions Bancorporation, representing the American Bankers Association # # #
04.05.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced that he will hold a Government Reform Committee field hearing on eliminating methamphetamine's influence in the Tenth District on Tuesday, April 11 at 10 a.m. in the Caldwell County Commissioners Chamber. This hearing – “Appalachian Ice: The Methamphetamine Epidemic in Western North Carolina” – will explore potential ways the federal government can assist state and local law enforcement agencies in combating the rising tide of methamphetamine use and trafficking. “I met with local sheriffs and drug enforcement officials in February of last year to discuss solutions to the meth problem,” Congressman McHenry said. “As a result of that meeting, I introduced and passed legislation to double the prison sentence from 10 to 20 years for offenders caught manufacturing methamphetamine in the presence of children.With the help of local leaders and law enforcement officials, we will continue making progress to stop meth’s hold on western North Carolina.” Witnesses for the hearing are local sheriffs, law enforcement officials and a personal account of methamphetamine’s destructive influence in families. Please see the witness list at the bottom of this release. Congressman McHenry is leading the fight against methamphetamine abuse in the Tenth District. As Vice Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Justice and Drug Policy, the Congressman has taken a lead role in crafting legislation to deal with this growing problem. Congressman McHenry will welcome Chairman Mark Souder (R-IN) to chair the hearing; Souder is Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy, and Human Resources. The Subcommittee is responsible for authorizing legislation for the Office of National Drug Control Policy and its programs as well as general oversight for all U.S. government drug control efforts (including international and interdiction programs, law enforcement, and prevention and treatment initiatives). Please see details below for this important event: WHAT: "Appalachian Ice: The Methamphetamine Epidemic in Western North Carolina" WHO: Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC)Congressman Mark Souder (R-IN), Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources WITNESSES:Sheriff C. Philip Byers, Rutherford CountySheriff Gary Clark, Caldwell CountyMr. John J. Emerson, Drug Enforcement Agency Mr. James Gaither, District AttorneyMr. Van Shaw, NC State Bureau of Investigation Ms. Lynne Vasquez, Personal Witness, Rutherford County WHEN: Tuesday, April 11 at 10 a.m. WHERE: Commissioners Chamber, Caldwell County Government Office, 905 West Avenue N.W., Lenoir, NC 28645
04.04.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today will introduce a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives commending the Capitol Police Force for their professionalism and commitment to protecting citizens, staff and Congressional Members. Please see below the statements from Congressmen McHenry and Diaz-Balart. Congressman McHenry “The officers of the Capitol Police Force risk their lives every day protecting constituents, staff and Members of Congress. I am proud to stand with Congressman Diaz-Balart to honor their dedication, letting them know their hard work and professionalism are appreciated. The right thing to do is to commend these men and women – they deserve a pat on the back, which is more appropriate than what they’ve gotten lately.” Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart “I am proud to join Congressman McHenry in introducing this congressional resolution to express our support and appreciation for the Capitol Police. Everyday they exhibit honor, courtesy and professionalism. This resolution highlights and thanks the hard-working Capitol Police for the work they do in maintaining security around the Capitol for all members of Congress, staff and visitors. They confront real and false threats everyday, and when necessary have put their lives on the line to ensure everyone else’s safety.” The Associated Press reported today that U.S. Capitol Police sought an arrest warrant yesterday for Rep. Cynthia McKinney in response to her physical altercation with a Capitol Police officer last week.
03.17.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) yesterday joined 70 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a joint letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA) outlining “fundamental principles” of immigration reform and expressing “grave concern” about some of the Senate’s proposals. “Illegal immigration threatens our national security and strains our healthcare facilities, schools and social services,” Congressman McHenry said. “The House stepped up to the plate in December and passed a strong bill that increases border security and takes amnesty off the table. Now, it’s time for the Senate to respond to the growing problem of illegal immigration and do what’s best for the legal immigrants and citizens of this country.” The Members, who led the passage of the House’s reform bill in December, worry that some of the Judiciary Committee’s proposals are “fundamentally incompatible” with the House’s actions and could “doom any chance of a real reform bill reaching the President’s desk this year.” The letter came on the same day that Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist introduced an enforcement-only bill which will serve as a backstop in case the Judiciary Committee is unable to produce its own proposal. The letter to Chairman Specter is printed below: Dear Chairman Specter, As you know, the House of Representatives passed an immigration reform bill in December. The bill takes several steps to restore order to our anarchical borders and to reform our dysfunctional immigration system. Among other provisions, the bill calls for the construction of a security fence along our southern border, streamlines federal and local law enforcement cooperation on immigration matters, and helps protect American workers by mandating an instant check system for businesses to verify the legal status of their employees. We worked diligently to make sure that our vision for reform passed the House, and we were pleased that it garnered broad bipartisan support. No reasonable observer – regardless of his or her policy perspective – believes that the current system serves the national or economic security interests of our country. We are all aware of how our porous borders and our lax interior enforcement create opportunities for criminals, whether they are human smugglers, illegal employers or persons sneaking into our country to do us harm. Americans demand that we fix our broken system, now. We believe that both houses of Congress have a shared responsibility to solve this problem. Unfortunately, we have grave concerns about several of the proposals which have been presented to your committee. We are concerned that some of these proposals are fundamentally incompatible with the desire of the American public for real immigration reform – and their clear opposition to reform proposals that amount to little more than thinly disguised attempts to provide amnesty. If the Senate were to pass such a proposal, we believe it would doom any chance of a real reform bill reaching the President’s desk this year. In order to provide a roadmap to successful reform, we ask that you consider several fundamental principles when you are crafting your committee’s proposal: Border Security: We must make an honest attempt to secure our borders through greater manpower and infrastructure resources – over and above what Congress has already authorized. Interior Enforcement: No solution to illegal immigration will work until we begin to prosecute employers who lure illegal aliens into the U.S. Enforcement First: No foreign worker plan can function unless we have operational control of our borders and unless we know who comes in and out of our country. No Amnesty: Rewarding persons who have broken the law with an advantage that they would not otherwise have had encourages more illegal behavior and is unjust to immigrants who came to the U.S. legally. Our country desperately needs secure borders. Our constituents demand them. We look forward to working with you and your colleagues in the Senate to pass immigration reform this year. Sincerely, Representatives Aderholt, Akin, Alexander, Bachus, Baker, Barrett, Bartlett, Barton, Beauprez, Blackburn, Boozman, Bradley, Burgess, Burton, Campbell, Carter, Cubin, Culberson, Deal, Duncan, Everett, Forbes, Foxx, Garrett, Gingrey, Gohmert, Goode, Gordon, Graves, Gutknecht, Hefley, Herger, Hoekstra, Hostettler, Hunter, Issa, Istook, Jenkins, Johnson (TX), Jones (NC), King (IA), Kingston, Kuhl, Marchant, McCotter, McHenry, McKeon, Gary Miller, Myrick, Ney, Norwood, Otter, Paul, Pence, Pickering, Pitts, Poe, Price (GA), Ramstad, Rohrabacher, Royce, Ryun, Sessions, Simpson, Smith (TX), Stearns, Sullivan, Tancredo, Taylor (NC), Wamp, Weldon (FL)
03.16.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today voted against legislation authorizing $9.5 billion in taxpayer money for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Congressman’s statement is below: “Giving money to FEMA is like giving a blank check to a drunken sailor. FEMA stashed 11,000 unused trailers in Arkansas and spent 25% of their budget on ‘administrative costs.’ FEMA is wasteful and inefficient – and we must patch the holes of this sinking ship before asking taxpayers to foot the bill.” Last month, USA Today reported that FEMA “spent $878.8 million on nearly 25,000 manufactured homes that the agency is paying to store around the country largely because its own regulations prohibit placing the homes in flood plains, such as New Orleans.” In addition, FEMA let almost 11,000 unused manufactured homes sit in open fields in Arkansas, while at the same time spending $438 per night to house evacuees in a New York City hotel. These are just a few examples of the extensive FEMA waste found by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and others during the Gulf Coast recovery efforts. The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (H.R. 4939) passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 348 to 71.
03.09.2006	Congressman McHenry’s (R-NC) methamphetamine bill was signed into law today by President Bush as a provision in a larger law enforcement bill. The congressman’s measure doubles the prison sentence from 10 to 20 years for offenders caught manufacturing methamphetamine in the presence of children. “Methamphetamine use is a growing problem across our region and a clear and present danger to our children, as more and more young lives are destroyed by this deadly drug,” Congressman McHenry said. “My meth bill comes as the result of meeting with local sheriffs and drug enforcement officials last year to discuss solutions to the meth problem. The president’s signature today is a step forward in the fight to curb meth’s destructive influence in our streets and communities.” Congressman McHenry is leading the fight against methamphetamine use in the Tenth District. As Vice Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources, the congressman has taken a lead role in crafting legislation to deal with this growing problem. “Children are the silent victims of our nation’s meth epidemic,” said Congressman McHenry. “This provision toughens the law against some of our nation’s worst criminals, the offenders who make this drug around children. I am going on the offensive against meth’s hold in our region because our communities deserve to be safe, healthy and secure.” The provisions in this legislation are the most comprehensive federal laws to date targeting methamphetamine manufacture, distribution and use. Tuesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the USA PATRIOT Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act of 2006 (S. 2271) by a vote of 280 to 138.
03.08.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued the following statement during the Republican Study Committee’s press conference to announce a budget proposal that will balance the federal budget in five years. The congressman’s statement is below: “This budget proposal makes me proud to be a conservative. Today, my colleagues at the Republican Study Committee – the conservatives in the House – are boldly stepping up to the plate and offering real solutions to a budget that is spiraling out of control.” “This is a strong plan that maintains our commitment to national defense, our veterans and Social Security. It cuts foreign aid to our enemies, reforms out-of-control entitlement programs, ensures pro-growth tax cuts and balances the budget in five years. This is what we’re about as conservatives.” “The Democrats are screaming about our national debt, and what’s their solution? Raise your taxes and increase government spending. Republicans are committed to cutting taxes and cutting spending to balance our budget.” “They believe leadership is about words and rhetoric. We know leadership is about action and results. That’s the fundamental difference between Democrats and Republicans – they talk and we lead.” Members of the RSC plan to offer their budget proposal on the House floor later this month as a conservative alternative to this year's proposed budget. Several key aspects of the budget are: Balancing the budget by 2011 $358 billion in savings from reforming entitlement programs Pro-growth tax policies Fully meeting the President's request for defense spending Reducing foreign aid by $31 billion Restructuring of the Departments of Education, Energy, and Commerce Reforming the budget process to make it harder for Congress to increase spending Calling for earmark reform and a constitutional line item veto ###
02.23.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued the following statement in response to the announcement that Dubai Ports World of the United Arab Emirates is slated to provide operational management of six U.S. ports: “We should say to every government in the world, if you want to do business in the United States you must abide by free market principles. America has the power to level the economic playing field – we must use it.” “State-owned companies – whether in the UAE, China or Europe – are government-financed, giving them a competitive advantage over privately-owned companies. When the U.S. government does business with state-owned corporations, competition is stifled and our private, domestic companies have their legs cut out from under them.” “I am concerned with the Dubai Deal not only because of the national security implications, but the economic implications as well. The Dubai Deal outsources our ports to the state-owned entity of a foreign government. This deal turns its back on the free market principles that have guided this nation into economic prosperity.”
02.23.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) will welcome the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Aviation, Congressman John Mica (R-FL), to Hickory and tour the Hickory Regional Airport on Friday, February 24. The congressmen will meet with local officials and members of the airport task force to discuss issues including commercial air service and the Airport Tower Sharing Program. “The Hickory Regional Airport is a key part of the infrastructure for attracting businesses and promoting growth in this region,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am pleased that my good friend, Chairman Mica, will be on hand to discuss our airport’s vital role in laying the groundwork for future economic development.” Even without a commercial air service, Hickory’s airport remains an important component to the region’s transportation network and economy. Friday’s meeting is intended to identify ways the airport can continue contributing to the region going forward. In 2001, Congressman Mica was named Chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee. A panel under the jurisdiction of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, the subcommittee has oversight of all matters regarding civil aviation including airport improvement, aviation safety and security, and other related issues. Major federal agencies overseen by the Aviation Subcommittee include the Federal Aviation Administration, the Transportation Security Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board. After 9/11, Congressman Mica authored the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which created the new Transportation Security Administration to focus on protecting aviation – as well as all modes of transportation – from future terrorist attacks. Congressmen McHenry and Mica will entertain media questions from 9:10 a.m. to 9:20 a.m. at the Hickory Regional Airport.
02.21.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued a statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court agreeing to hear the Bush Administration’s appeal of a ruling that called the 2003 Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act “unconstitutional”: “The Supreme Court is making the right decision to hear this appeal. The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act prohibits doctors from performing one of the most heinous acts this world has ever seen – the premeditated murder of a living, breathing baby. I urge the Supreme Court to uphold this law and guide our nation back on a path toward protecting and promoting a culture of life.” “The United States should be a compassionate nation that cherishes innocent human life at all stages of development, from conception to natural death. The Supreme Court’s decision today is a positive signal that we are moving toward the fulfillment of America’s moral obligation to ban abortion.” The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act would be the first nationwide ban on an abortion procedure since the Roe v. Wade decision in 1973, which legalized abortions in the U.S.
02.09.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) spoke with Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez about making the 10th District more economically competitive through education initiatives like the congressman’s Higher Education Coordinating Council during today’s Government Reform Committee hearing. The hearing was titled, “Sharpening Our Edge: Staying Competitive in the 21st Century Marketplace.” The transcript of the Q & A is below: Congressman McHenry: Thank you Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this important hearing, and Secretary Gutierrez, thank you so much for taking the time to be here. I appreciate your leadership in the Department of Commerce – it has been very good working with you. I think you are one of the outstanding Bush Administration appointees and I certainly appreciate your hard work and dedication, thank you. And the initiative we’re talking about today, the competitiveness initiative, is very important. My district in North Carolina, Western North Carolina, is going through a time of immense change. Overall unemployment nationally is somewhere around 5%, that’s wonderful – historic lows. In North Carolina we are facing nearly full employment, in some cases some economists would call it beyond full employment. We have an unemployment rate that’s around 4.7%. My district, however, is facing a time of change. We’ve been traditionally reliant on textiles and furniture industry jobs, manufacturing jobs generally. I have two counties, in fact, that led the state in unemployment. One faced last year for a few months an unemployment rate of about 13%. Another county faced an unemployment rate of around 11% at its height. That’s mainly due to the loss of furniture industry jobs. Now, certainly there are trade issues that we’re dealing with – competitiveness issues with China and the fact that China won’t float their currency, but that’s a question I’ll leave up to Secretary Snowe at the Department of the Treasury. So I will not burden you with those questions. But the focus that I’ve tried to place in my district is on getting the skills and the training necessary to compete in going forward. We can’t be relying on yesterday’s jobs; we have to be training for tomorrow’s jobs and today’s jobs. And representing a district that is termed in the Almanac for American Politics as “the most blue-collar district in America,” we certainly are going through change. And I wanted to ask you, what would you propose for a district like mine? What can I go home and tell my people that we should be doing? Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: Well I recall we talked about this when we traveled together to North Carolina and at that time interestingly you were talking about a [Higher Education Coordinating] Council, which I believe is the sort of initiative that you need throughout the country but especially in communities as you say where change is happening, because what ultimately will help our people is to upgrade their skills, adjust their skills, but enable them to move forward with the economy and enable them to move to jobs of higher paying wage – but ensure that we give them the ability to constantly be training and retraining. So I would just say that your foresight on that – your vision on that – is absolutely right to the extent that we can help to execute that vision. That should help, because that’s what we’ve seen in communities that have made a transition. It has been about getting the right programs… Chairman Tom Davis (R-VA): Mr. Secretary could you pull that microphone a little closer, just so we can hear? Thank you. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: Yes sir. Getting the right programs in community colleges that are tied to the jobs that are available and that’s the sort of execution that needs to take place locally. On the – on textiles, as you know, we just signed an agreement with China for three years. Hopefully that will give, and it’s intended to give, both retailers and manufacturers transparency and predictability as to what’s going to happen over the next three years to enable them to do what needs to be done to become more competitive. So, I hope that has been helpful but I would urge you to stay on this coordinating council and I think it’s the right focus. Congressman McHenry: I appreciate that, and thank you. I did enjoy speaking with you. We had about two or three hours that day to talk on that trip and I appreciated that opportunity. Is there any expertise in the Department of Commerce you could point to that folks – my folks at home could reach out and get help with? Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: I would, depending on the specific area, but I would point to the ITA area where we do have an office for textiles – specifically focused on textiles. And I would also lead you toward Economic Development Administration, E.D.A., because their role is about economic development and it’s about helping communities create jobs, helping communities become more attractive to private sector investment. So I would start there and I think those two areas could be very helpful. Congressman McHenry: Well, my predecessor had the foresight to actually work with the Department of Commerce to get a regional economic development survey done to point us in the right direction. And so… Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: Right. Congressman McHenry: …We’re very much appreciative to an initiative we call Future Forward, for my region. A final question for you, where do we need to go in terms of changing the tax-code to be competitive internationally, around the world? There are a number of different initiatives – a previous statement pointed to the fact that we are held back by regulation and taxation in this country and lawsuits that actually hampers our ability to sell products around the world, because of the added expense and cost of that. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: I would say two things there. One is the, just the recognition that, the tax-cuts that Congress and the President enacted have worked and there’s no question that the basic principle of putting more money in the hands of business and putting more money in the hands of consumers and that they will be better than a centralized body is working. The challenge now is to make those tax-cuts permanent and to recognize that if we don’t make them permanent then we’re raising taxes. Because that will also incentivize investors to bring more capital to the country. And then on the innovation front we have the R&D tax credit. We believe there’s work that can be done there to simplify it. It is a little bit complex, it is -- it’s subject to some interpretations, and we believe we can make it more effective so that it yields more innovation. Those are two things I would do to work on tax policy. Congressman McHenry: Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary, and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
01.31.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a $12,400 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department to address fire safety and prevention needs. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a $12,400 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department to address fire safety and prevention needs. “I am very pleased to see the Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department receive this federal grant,” said Congressman McHenry. “It will enable the department to continue developing programs that demonstrate the best practices for preventing fires in our homes and communities.” The grant comes in the second round of the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program (FP&S), which aims to help fire departments better educate and prepare their communities to prevent fires in their homes, schools and workplaces. The program is administered by the DHS Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants Training. Thirty-two fire departments in the Tenth District have received federal grants from the DHS during the 2005 cycle, bringing the total amount awarded to $2,742,769 since the Congressman took office. This is the second Tenth District fire department to receive an FP&S grant this year. Cleveland County leads the district in Homeland Security grants to fire departments, with seven departments receiving either Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) or FP&S grants.
01.31.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today issued the following statement regarding President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address: "President Bush delivered a strong, forceful State of the Union address tonight. He articulated a plan to reform and limit government, continue the tax cuts and give Americans the chance to make more choices for themselves – especially in the area of health care. Improved health savings accounts will give individuals more control over their medical decisions – and help reign in the overall cost of health care. The President reaffirmed his commitment to cutting both taxes and government, which will fuel our economy’s growth in the years ahead." "I am confident in the President’s plan to protect our Homeland and national security in our continued fight against Islamic Extremists. There are many difficult decisions facing us in the Middle East – and the civilized world will not stand for a madman in Iran to have nuclear weapons."
01.25.2006	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) announced a $6,000 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Kings Mountain Fire Department to address fire prevention needs. “I am very pleased to see the Kings Mountain Fire Department receive this federal grant,” said Congressman McHenry. “It will enable the department to continue developing programs to demonstrate the best practices for preventing fires in our homes and communities.” The grant comes in the first round of the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program (FP&S), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. The program is administered by the DHS’ Preparedness Directorate’s Office of Grants Training. Thirty-one fire departments in the Tenth District have received federal grants from the DHS, bringing the total amount awarded to $2,730,369 since the Congressman took office. This is the first Tenth District fire department to receive an FP&S grant this year. The Kings Mountain Fire Department also received a $36,157 grant for personal protective equipment from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) last year.
01.24.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced a $2,395 U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grant to the City of Lincolnton Police Department, which will cover 50% of the department’s overall costs in replacing Zylon-based bulletproof vests. “I am pleased to see the City of Lincolnton Police Department receive this federal grant because I know how important they are to our community,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant helps the department in purchasing new, safe and reliable bulletproof vests so they can continue the hard – and greatly appreciated – work of protecting our streets and communities.” The Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) approved the payment to the department as part of a supplement to the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) Program. The DOJ made these funds available to assist departments in replacing Zylon-based bulletproof vests after finding that the vests may not possess the necessary level of ballistic resistance.
01.23.2006	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC) today announced a Constituent Liaison in his office, Nancy Meek, will be the recipient of the Old North State Award. The award will be presented to Meek on Tuesday, January 24 at 5:30 p.m. at Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office (87 4th Street, NW, Suite A, Hickory, NC 28603) on behalf of the Office of the Governor for her outstanding service on the City of Hickory’s Board of Education. The Office of the Governor issues awards to recognize individuals for contributions that have had a significant and positive impact on the state of North Carolina. Meek was nominated for the award by Bruce Meisner. Representative Mark Hilton referred the nomination to the Governor and will present the award to Meek. “The City of Hickory is blessed to have Nancy,” said Congressman McHenry. “She has committed much of her life to serving this community and improving the educational opportunities offered here. This award is a drop in the bucket compared to what we owe her for her tireless dedication and leadership over the years.” Meek served as a member of the Hickory City School Board 1995-2005 and was Chairperson from 1999-2001. While serving as Chairperson, Northview Middle School was constructed, the first new school in the district in over 20 years. During her tenure on the board, a majority of the seven schools in the district received recognition as “Schools of Excellence”– several others received recognition as “Schools of Distinction.” Meek was invited and served from 2000 to 2005 on the Federal Liaison Board of the National School Board Association (where less than one-half of one percent of school board members nationwide are invited to join.) She served in 1999-2000 as President of the Hickory Service League, the largest women’s service organization in the Catawba Valley. While on the Hickory Board of Education she worked full time from 1998 to 2004 for Congressman Cass Ballenger and from 2005 to the present for Congressman Patrick McHenry. Her oldest son, Rob, graduated form Hickory High School in 2001 and Wake Forest University 2005 and is in law school at Campbell University. Her son, David, will graduate from Hickory High School in June 2006. Meek is a graduate of Meredith College and is married to Robert H. Meek, JR. The Old North State Award is given to individuals who have a proven record of exemplary service and commitment to the state and their respective communities. The Office of the Governor also presents the Order of the Long Leaf Pine, Certificate of Appreciation, Certificate of Appreciation for Volunteers, Honorary Tar Heel, Laurel Wreath Award and Governor’s Student Excellence Award.
01.18.2006	WASHINGTON - Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today issued the following statement on yesterday’s Supreme Court decision that rejected a challenge to Oregon’s assisted suicide law. The decision establishes that states have the authority to regulate medical treatment of the terminally ill, which permits other states to begin replicating Oregon’s law: "Life – from conception to natural death – is precious and should be valued at all stages. Yesterday’s Supreme Court decision shows contempt for the culture of life and life-affirming values that distinguish our nation.” “The United States has always been a compassionate nation that respects the miracle that our Creator bestowed upon us, the gift of life. The federal government has a fundamental obligation to protect the lives of its citizens, not take them.” ###
01.10.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today the Hickory Regional Airport will receive full federal funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) under the Contract Tower Program. The funds will finance the airport’s air traffic control services for the airspace surrounding the Hickory region. “The Hickory Regional Airport is a key part of the infrastructure for attracting businesses and promoting economic growth in the Unifour area,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am pleased with the FAA’s decision as it will allow the City of Hickory to cut operating costs without reducing airport resources.” In November 2005, Congressman McHenry asked the FAA for favorable consideration of the City of Hickory’s request for full funding based on its eligibility. Prior to the recent FAA decision, the City was required to pay 51% of the operational costs ($12,016 per month) to run the airport’s control tower as part of the FAA’s Cost Share Program. The airport’s air traffic control services will begin receiving full federal funding February 1, 2006. The Cost Share Program requires airports with benefit/cost ratios of less than 1.0 to continue to pay a portion of the cost of providing air traffic control services. The Hickory Regional Airport’s cost/benefit ratio recently increased to 1.47, which made it eligible for full funding under the Contract Tower Program. FAA’s Contract Tower Program, which began in 1982, now includes 226 smaller airports throughout the country. It provides a cost effective way for the FAA to ensure consistent safety standards by contracting air traffic control services to the private sector at visual flight rule airports.
12.17.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted yesterday for the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 (H.R. 4437). This legislation strengthens border security and limits illegal immigration. “Illegal immigration threatens our national security and strains our healthcare facilities, schools, and social services,” said Congressman McHenry. “The solution to the illegal immigration problem begins with securing our borders. I support this legislation because it is a good first step toward stopping the illegal immigration problem.” Congressman McHenry is leading the charge to secure our borders and stop the flow of illegal immigrants into our communities. Last week, the Congressman stood with over 20 conservative members of Congress and called for reforms to America’s immigration policies during a press conference titled “Real Reform Now.” Congressman McHenry introduced legislation in November entitled Comprehensive Immigration Data and Technology Accountability Act of 2005 (Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act). This bill creates a comprehensive computerized database to more effectively and efficiently track immigrants applying for visas or U.S. citizenship. “After securing our borders,” said Congressman McHenry during the Real Reform Now press conference, “one of the most pressing matters in the immigration reform debate is America’s outdated system for processing immigration case files.” “The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services processes over 7 million applications using Windows 95 and paper printouts – this system is flawed and inefficient. The Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act modernizes the process at a time when immigration reform is vital to the security and safety of our communities.” H.R. 4437 authorizes the U.S to build a fence along part of the U.S.-Mexico border and enables all employers to verify Social Security numbers and the legal status of workers. The bill strengthens border security with the help of local law enforcement and military technology, imposes tougher penalties for smuggling and re-entry, and ends the "catch and release" policy. It makes drunken driving convictions a deportable offense. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4437 yesterday by a vote of 239 to 182. The Senate is expected to take up action on the bill in February 2006.
12.14.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry’s (R-NC-10) meth bill passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives as a provision in a larger law enforcement bill. Congressman McHenry’s provision doubles the prison sentence from 10 to 20 years for offenders caught manufacturing methamphetamine in the presence of children. “My meth bill comes as the result of meeting with local sheriffs and drug enforcement officials in February to discuss solutions to the meth problem,” said Congressman McHenry. “Studies have shown that children who are exposed to meth labs can suffer permanent physical damage – this must be stopped.” Congressman McHenry is leading the fight against methamphetamine abuse in the Tenth District. As Vice Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Justice and Drug Policy, the Congressman has taken a lead role in crafting legislation to deal with this growing problem. Last year alone, over 2,700 children were found in methamphetamine labs seized by law enforcement officials. “Children are the silent victims of our nation’s meth epidemic,” said Congressman McHenry. “This provision toughens the law against some of our nation’s worst criminals, the offenders who make this drug around children. I am going on the offensive against meth’s hold in our region because our communities deserve to be safe, healthy, and secure.” The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the USA Patriot Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 (H.R. 3199) by a vote of 251 to 174. The Senate is expected to take up action on this bill later this week.
12.14.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a $77,710 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Rhodhiss Fire Department to address operations and firefighter safety needs. “I am pleased to see the Rhodhiss Fire Department receive this federal grant because I know how important they are to our community,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant enables the department to continue protecting Burke and Caldwell counties by updating their equipment and personal protective gear.” The grant comes in the sixteenth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. The program is administered by the DHS’ office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). This award brings the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to 31 with a total amount awarded of $2,724,369. All 10 counties in the Tenth District have at least one department that has received an Assistance to Firefighters Grant this year.
12.09.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) stood yesterday with over 20 conservative Members of Congress and called for reforms to America’s immigration policies. The press conference, titled “Real Reform Now,” focused on ways to improve H.R. 4437, a bill approved Thursday by the House Judiciary Committee intended to strengthen border security and toughen enforcement of immigration laws. Congressman McHenry focused on the Comprehensive Immigration Data and Technology Accountability Act of 2005 (Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act). This legislation, which he introduced in November and will offer as an amendment to H.R. 4437, creates a federal computerized database to more effectively and efficiently track immigrants applying for visas or U.S. citizenship. Congressman McHenry stressed the importance of modernizing America’s immigration application process. “After securing our borders, one of the most pressing matters in the immigration reform debate is America’s outdated system for processing immigration case files,” said Congressman McHenry. “The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services processes over 7 million applications using Windows 95 and paper printouts – this system is flawed and inefficient. The Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act modernizes the process at a time when immigration reform is vital to the security and safety of our communities.” The Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act takes a three-pronged approach to reforming the immigration process. First, the bill creates a database that allows real time access to immigration case files and moves it to a fully electronic system. Second, the database allows federal law enforcement agencies to access electronic case files, reducing the number of illegal immigrants released in our communities. Third, the legislation sets deadlines for the planning, implementation, and review of the new database. Groups concerned with the need for swift and effective immigration reform are voicing support for Congressman McHenry’s legislation: “The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) applauds Congressman McHenry’s new initiative to bring about a long overdue consolidation and upgrade in alien databases operated by the Department of Homeland Security,” said Paul Egan, director of government relations for FAIR. “The current system is a patchwork of paper-based, outmoded, and uncoordinated data. Linking these systems and allowing for law enforcement access is critical to the enforcement of immigration laws and expediting services to legal immigrants.” H.R. 4437 was approved by the House Judiciary Committee Thursday and the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on it next week.
12.05.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today released a statement regarding his meeting with President George W. Bush to discuss creating jobs and strengthening the Western North Carolina economy. “The President’s tax cuts are providing a foundation for growth that lets people keep their own money, which is why our nation’s economy has shown positive growth for the last 16 quarters.” said Congressman McHenry. “This is important to our region because of the recent job losses, and I will continue fighting to strengthen our economy by providing more education and job training opportunities, cutting taxes, and reducing the Federal budget.” Congressman McHenry accompanied President Bush today on Air Force One and joined the President on a tour of the John Deere-Hitachi construction machinery plant in Kernersville, NC. Following the tour, the President spoke on improving the nation’s economy through continued tax relief.
12.01.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) yesterday presented military service awards to 10 local World War II, Vietnam, and Korea veterans. The military service award ceremony is part of Congressman McHenry’s ongoing effort to recognize local veterans and their contributions to our country, both at home and abroad. “These courageous servicemen are responsible for ensuring the very freedom we Americans hold dear,” said Congressman McHenry. “I’m truly humbled to be a part of honoring these heroes and their loved ones with awards signifying the sacrifices they made for our country. We are fortunate to have these men of valor in our community, setting lasting examples for what it means to be a true American.” Congressman McHenry is leading efforts to identify Tenth District veterans who either have not received or need replacements for military service awards they earned during their tours of duty. Thursday’s presentation marked the second ceremony the Congressman has devoted to presenting military service awards to local veterans. Tenth District residents thinking that they or their family members are eligible to receive military service awards should contact Joanna Rowe in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory office at (828) 327-6100. List of yesterday’s military service award recipients: • James Tillman (Gastonia, NC): Purple Heart Army Commendation Medal & Oak Leaf Cluster Bronze Large (Double), Good Conduct Medal & Clasp Bronze 2 Loops (Good Conduct #2), National Defense Service Medal & Bronze Star Attachment (Single), Vietnam Service Medal & Bronze Star Attachment (Quadruple), Armed Forces Reserve Medal & Hourglass Devise Bronze, Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal & Oak Leaf Cluster Bronze Large, NCO Professional Development Ribbon & Numeral 3, Army Service Ribbon, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device, Expert Badge & Auto Rifle Bar, Army Retired Lapel Button • Ronald Bowman (Granite Falls, NC): Bronze Star Medal, Army Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device (1960), Expert Badge with Machine Gun Bar, Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar, Parachutist Badge- Basic • William Johnson (Morganton, NC): Bronze Star Medal with 2 Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters, Purple Heart with 1 Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster, Army Commendation Medal with 1 Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with 2 Bronze Service Stars, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device (1960), Expert Badge with Machine Gun Bar with Rifle Bar • Johnny Headrick (Newton, NC): Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal • Mark Nolan (Vale, NC) (accepted in his honor by his 17-year-old son, Matt): National Defense Service Medal, Marksman Badge & Rifle Bar • Charles Cardwell (Lenoir, NC): Good Conduct Medal, Navy Occupation Service Medal (with clasp), National Defense Service Medal 1 Bronze Star, Navy Expeditionary Medal, Vietnam Service Medal 3 Bronze Stars, Combat Action Ribbon, Expert Rifle Badge, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal, Republic of Vietnam Meritorious Unit Citation • Fred Rowe (Conover, NC): National Defense Service Medal, Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar • Billy Dowdle (Glen Alpine, NC): Purple Heart, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with 1 Bronze Star, Presidential Unit Citation Ribbon with 1 Bronze Star, MCMMRB Badge, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal with 60 Device, Republic of Vietnam Meritorious Unit Citation (Gallantry Cross medal Color with Palm) • Robert Bailey (Spruce Pine, NC) (accepted in his honor by his four children): Bronze Star, Purple Heart, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 2 Bronze Service Stars, World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII • Donald Porter (Cherryville, NC): Air Force Commendation Medal with One Oak Leaf Cluster, Air Force Good Conduct Medal with Four Oak Leaf Clusters, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with Two Bronze Service Stars, Air Force Longevity Service Award with Four Oak Leaf Clusters, Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with Palm
11.21.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today that he secured a $5.8 million grant for the Lenoir Field Maintenance Shop through the FY06 Transportation, Treasury, HUD, the Judiciary, and the District of Columbia Appropriations Act. The project was originally slated for implementation in FY 2008, but Congressman McHenry requested it be moved forward to FY 2006 because of environmental and safety issues. “The Lenoir Field Maintenance Shop plays a crucial role in supporting the National Guard units of Western North Carolina,” said Congressman Patrick McHenry. “These funds go toward updating their facilities and giving the National Guard the necessary tools to do their job.” The new facility is required to meet current Field Maintenance requirements to support National Guard units located in Western North Carolina. The project scope for the proposed facility was recently increased to make it a regional maintenance complex based on its critical location and mission need. The current Field Maintenance Shop is located in a major development area that has flooded 45 – 50 times since 1977, posing a substantial environmental and safety risk. The Lenoir Field Maintenance Shop was listed as the North Carolina National Guard Adjunct General’s number one priority. "Congressman McHenry has really done the NC National Guard and the citizens of Western NC a great service by moving this project forward." said Maj. Gen. William E. Ingram Jr., the Adjutant General of the NC National Guard. "His ability to get the funding moved up to this fiscal year from 2008 will enable us to make a smooth transition out of the old building to a new state of the art regional maintenance facility in a much better location. This will have a positive impact on our capabilities to serve the citizens of Western NC and the nation." Congressman McHenry wrote a letter of support to the Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life earlier this year. President Bush is expected to sign the bill into law this week.
11.18.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today that he secured a $200,000 grant for the Catawba Science Center in the FY06 Transportation, Treasury, HUD, the Judiciary, and the District of Columbia Appropriations Act. The Catawba Science Center will use the funds to improve the educational resources available in the community. “Education is the key to opportunity,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Catawba Science Center is a shining example of a community project that offers educational resources to the people in our region. These funds are necessary to expand the educational opportunities available in the Catawba Valley.” The grant money will serve as the basis of funding for several projects including a 6,500 gallon Saltwater Touch tank, a 5,000 gallon Lake Hickory/Catawba River tank, a 60-seat multi-use theater/digital planetarium, and a physical science exhibit. Congressman McHenry submitted a request to the Appropriations Subcommittee earlier this year. The bill passed both the House and Senate and is expected to be signed by the President next week.
11.18.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) introduced today the Comprehensive Immigration Data and Technology Accountability Act of 2005. The legislation reforms the immigration process by creating a federal computerized database that more effectively and efficiently tracks immigrants applying for visas or U.S. citizenship. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) currently uses paper printouts to process over 7 million immigrant cases per year. “We need to get tough on illegal immigration by using technology – not paper printouts,” said Congressman McHenry. “This bill modernizes the process at a time when immigration reform is vital to the security and safety of our communities. It also helps government agencies effectively screen out illegal immigrants seeking benefits and services they aren’t eligible to receive. Most importantly, the Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act gives law enforcement officials the tools they need to curb the illegal immigration problem.” The Comprehensive Immigration D.A.T.A. Act takes a three-pronged approach to reforming the immigration process. First, the bill creates a database that allows real time access to immigration case files and moves it to a fully electronic system. Second, the database will be linked to federal law enforcement agencies, reducing the number of illegal immigrants released in our communities. Third, the legislation sets deadlines for the planning, implementation, and review of the new database. Congressman McHenry’s legislation is already gaining support from groups concerned with the need for swift and effective immigration reform. “The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) applauds Congressman McHenry’s new initiative to bring about a long overdue consolidation and upgrade in alien databases operated by the Department of Homeland Security,” said Paul Egan, director of government relations for FAIR. “The current system is a patchwork of paper-based, outmoded, and uncoordinated data. Linking these systems and allowing for law enforcement access is critical to the enforcement of immigration laws and expediting services to legal immigrants.”
11.11.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today that he secured $150,000 through the FY06 State-Science-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill to fund training programs for the Hickory Police Department. “We are working to assure Hickory’s safety by providing our law enforcement officers with the best training and preparation possible,” said Congressman McHenry. “These funds will give our first responders the necessary tools to respond effectively to a variety of public safety challenges. I am confident that Hickory’s police force will use this money to continue keeping our communities secure and our citizens safe.” The $150,000 federal grant will support Hickory’s first responder training efforts and was acquired through the Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants program. The funding comes at a time when Hickory is specifically focused on upgrading its law enforcement training capabilities. "The City of Hickory's community policing program is highly regarded throughout the state,” said Mick Berry, Hickory City Manager. “Community policing requires a high level of commitment and training. The City has made significant cuts to its budget over the past two fiscal years and this grant will help us reinvest in our most important asset, our officers. We appreciate the partnership we have with Congressman McHenry and his staff." President Bush is expected to sign the appropriations bill into law next week.
11.09.2005	Reps. Virginia Foxx (R-NC-5) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) are pleased to announce that funding for a new fingerprint system for the crime lab at the Iredell County Sheriff’s (ISCO) office has cleared the final legislative hurdle. Foxx and McHenry were able to secure $150,000 for the project in the FY06 Science, Departments of State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Conference report that passed the House today. The legislation will now go to President Bush’s desk for final approval. share: f t Reps. Virginia Foxx (R-NC-5) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) are pleased to announce that funding for a new fingerprint system for the crime lab at the Iredell County Sheriff’s (ISCO) office has cleared the final legislative hurdle. Foxx and McHenry were able to secure $150,000 for the project in the FY06 Science, Departments of State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Conference report that passed the House today. The legislation will now go to President Bush’s desk for final approval. "I was pleased to work with Sheriff Phil Redmond to provide his department with the resources they need to keep criminals off the street," said Foxx. "Keeping my constituents safe is one of my top priorities. I want to thank Congressman McHenry and Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr for working with me to secure the funding for this very important project." “The Iredell County Sheriff’s Office will use this money to continue their success in providing safety and security in our community,” said Congressman McHenry. “The funds will go toward increasing the capabilities of our law enforcement officials, which is an important step forward for the people of Iredell County. I commend Rep. Virginia Foxx and Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr for joining me in the fight to support our police force.” The ISCO is constructing a crime lab which will eventually develop into a regional lab for other law enforcement agencies in the area. For that crime lab, ICSO needs federal assistance to purchase the Omnitrack Fingerprint Identification System. This system will help classify and identify fingerprints, as well as search the federal Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) for a match. The outdated and inefficient current system only allows for fingerprints from booked inmates to be sent to AFIS for positive identification. ICSO needs a system by which officers can instantaneously submit an unknown latent fingerprint from a crime scene, or a fingerprint from an unknown person, for AFIS to analyze and identify. Currently, ICSO has fingerprint cards on file and analysts must physically go through each card for comparison to find a match. If there is no card match, the print is sent to the State Bureau of Investigation for analysis, which can take up to 18 months. The Omnitrack Fingerprint Identification System will expedite the identification process and also avoid human error.
11.09.2005	Reps. Charles H. Taylor (R-NC-11) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today that they secured $250,000 through the FY06 State-Science-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill to combat methamphetamine use and production in Rutherford County. Reps. Taylor and McHenry both represent Rutherford County in the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t Reps. Charles H. Taylor (R-NC-11) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced today that they secured $250,000 through the FY06 State-Science-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill to combat methamphetamine use and production in Rutherford County. Reps. Taylor and McHenry both represent Rutherford County in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I was pleased to be able to secure these funds through the appropriations process,” said Rep. Taylor. “Methamphetamine abuse is the number one law enforcement issue in our region. Use and production continue to grow and leave behind hopelessness and broken families. It is my hope that this funding will help alleviate some of the tragic effects of meth. I also believe that the Rutherford County Sheriff’s Department will be good stewards of this money. Their dedication together with these new resources will go a long way toward solving this problem.” Rutherford County has one of the highest rates of meth abuse in the state and this money will be crucial in reducing the manufacture of the highly addictive drug. The funding will be presented to the Rutherford County Sheriff’s Department and will be used for education programs and equipment to curb meth’s production. “Combating methamphetamines is a top priority in our communities because of the devastation it causes to so many families, especially in Rutherford County,” said Congressman McHenry. “The Rutherford County Sheriff’s Department has been proactive in battling meth and their commitment is paying off. I am confident that Chief Deputy Philip Byers and his department will use this money to continue fighting this deadly drug invading our communities.” “Rutherford County and Western North Carolina have been stricken with the methamphetamine epidemic,” said Chief Deputy Philip Byers. “Congressmen Taylor and Congressman McHenry are working closely with the Rutherford County Sheriff’s Office to provide the federal funding that will help staff our Interstate Drug Interdiction Team. Thanks to the tireless work of both Congressmen, Rutherford County is one step closer to winning the war on methamphetamine addiction and abuse.”
11.04.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted last night for the Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 4128), legislation he co-sponsored that protects private property from abusive government seizure. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted last night for the Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 4128), legislation he co-sponsored that protects private property from abusive government seizure. H.R. 4128, which was passed in the House last night by a vote of 376 to 38, will restrict state and local governments from claiming imminent domain and taking landowners’ private property for use as private enterprise and development. This legislation will withhold federal funds from communities that disregard citizens’ private property rights. “I feel strongly about private property rights just as my constituents do, and I will fight to protect them. This bill is a good step forward in protecting homeowners from greedy government land grabs,” said Congressman McHenry. H.R. 4128 is intended to counteract the Supreme Court’s 5 to 4 decision in Kelo v. City of New London, which held that “economic development” can be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Taking Clause. This decision allowed the government to take land from small homeowners and give it to a large corporation to build a private research facility. “What few realize is that tax revenues were being used as a benchmark,” said Congressman McHenry. “There was nothing keeping a shopping center from going to court to knock down a church – and I believe that’s wrong.”
11.04.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a $92,750 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Boiling Springs Rural Fire Department to address operations and firefighter safety needs. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a $92,750 U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to the Boiling Springs Rural Fire Department to address operations and firefighter safety needs. “I am very pleased to see the Boiling Springs Rural Fire Department receive this federal grant because I know how important first responders are to our community,” said Congressman McHenry. “This grant will enable the department to improve their training capabilities as well as update their equipment and personal protective gear.” Congressman McHenry wrote a letter of support to the DHS assisting the department in the federal grant process. The grant comes in the tenth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. The program is administered by the DHS’ office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). This award brings the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to 30 with a total amount awarded of $2,646,659. All 10 counties in the Tenth District have at least one department that has received an Assistance to Firefighters Grant this year.
10.31.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) issued the following statement on the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) issued the following statement on the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States. “I applaud President Bush's nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States. Judge Alito has extensive public service experience, an exemplary constitutional background, and was unanimously confirmed to a seat on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in 1990. Few Judges in America are as qualified to serve on the Supreme Court as Judge Alito.” “Unfortunately, today’s Senate Democrats do not share the same spirit of cooperation seen in past Supreme Court nominations. Many liberal Senators and their special interest allies are already lining up to tarnish Judge Alito’s reputation. This nominee should receive a fair and timely confirmation vote, but if Senate liberals want to make a spectacle of themselves, then I urge them to show Americans just how far out of the mainstream they have drifted. Let them try to filibuster Judge Alito, and in the process, they will show America the true radical leftwing colors of today’s Democrat leadership.”
10.26.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $393,094 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to five local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $393,094 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to five local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to fire departments in Burke, Caldwell, Avery, Mitchell and Gaston Counties, and come in the ninth round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). “Helping our emergency services one of the top priorities of my office, and I am pleased that the Tenth District was very well represented in this round of Assistance to Firefighter Grants,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants will help local fire departments update their equipment, improve operations and safety as well as acquire new vehicles and the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Below are the grant recipients in the Tenth District: • Triple Community Fire Department, Inc. (Burke County) – $132,905 • Kings Creek Fire Department (Caldwell County) – $12,531 • Newland Volunteer Fire Department (Avery County) – $43,978 • Buladean Volunteer Fire Department (Mitchell County) - $80,750 • City of Cherryville Fire Department (Gaston County) - $122,930 These five awards bring the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to 29 with a total amount awarded of $2,553,939. All ten counties in the Tenth District now have at least one department that has received an Assistance to Firefighters Grant this year.
10.24.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has announced that next year’s Model United States House of Representatives will be held April 17-21, 2006 in Washington, DC. The application, which may be completed online, has a deadline of November 18, 2005. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has announced that next year’s Model United States House of Representatives will be held April 17-21, 2006 in Washington, DC. The application, which may be completed online, has a deadline of November 18, 2005. Sponsored by The American Youth Scholarship Foundation, this event will bring America’s most outstanding university students together in the nation’s capitol for five days of enriching and rewarding debate, discovery, and development. This unique program provides students with experience and education in policy making, relationship building, and negotiation skills, all learned on Capitol Hill. “This is an excellent opportunity for any college student who is seriously interested in learning more about the way our government operates,” stated Congressman McHenry. “I encourage anyone who is considering a career in government to apply.” Program participants will be assigned a role in the conference. From deciding what issues they will discuss, to writing mock legislation to be voted upon, the selected applicants remain the focus of the conference. Bills submitted in advance by applicants will be reviewed by a panel of congressional experts for timeliness, subject, and appropriateness. The Model House of Representatives schedules speakers for the program, including high ranking officials in each branch of government. Congressman McHenry encourages interested students to find out more about participating in this opportunity by visiting the program’s website: www.aysf.org/modelhouseofrepresentatives/. Laurie Moody from the Congressman’s staff is also available to answer questions at 828-327-6100 or by e-mail: laurie.moody@mail.house.gov.
10.21.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry has announced the creation of the United States Department of Commerce Hurricane Contracting Information Center (HCIC). The HCIC provides a central point of reference for businesses, especially small and medium-size enterprises, to become aware of and register for federal contracting opportunities in the Gulf Coast. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry has announced the creation of the United States Department of Commerce Hurricane Contracting Information Center (HCIC). The HCIC provides a central point of reference for businesses, especially small and medium-size enterprises, to become aware of and register for federal contracting opportunities in the Gulf Coast. While the HCIC does not award contracts, its mission is to ensure that businesses understand the process and are aware when opportunities become available. Once registered, businesses will notified by e-mail when contracts in their area of expertise become available and will be provided the necessary contact information to apply for particular contracts. “The Hurricane Contracting Information Center will allow small businesses in the Tenth District to become involved in rebuilding areas ravaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita,” explained Congressman McHenry. “This will not only be good for our businesses, but also for those in the affected states who need help desperately.” The HCIC can be accessed on the internet at: www.rebuildingthegulfcoast.gov or toll-free at: 1-888-4USADOC.
10.20.2005	Earlier today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for The Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (S. 397), legislation that will protect gun manufacturers and distributors from frivolous lawsuits filed when their products are used illegally. “The Second Amendment is the right that protects all of our other rights as Americans,” explained Congressman McHenry shortly after the bill passed. share: f t Earlier today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for The Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (S. 397), legislation that will protect gun manufacturers and distributors from frivolous lawsuits filed when their products are used illegally. “The Second Amendment is the right that protects all of our other rights as Americans,” explained Congressman McHenry shortly after the bill passed. “For years, liberal judges and gun-control activists have been trying to eliminate that right because they hate guns, they hate hunting and they ultimately resent the fact that the founding fathers included the Second Amendment in the Bill of Rights.” Since Republicans took control of Congress in 1994, liberal activists have seen their attempts to enact gun-control legislation shut down at every turn. Since then, they have focused their efforts on the courts. Numerous individuals and liberal groups have filed lawsuits against firearms manufacturers, distributors and retailers in recent years, attempting to put them out of business by holding them liable for the actions of criminals. “It is absolutely ridiculous to say that a gun manufacturer is to blame when a criminal uses one of their products in a crime,” said the Congressman. “These same liberals who make this argument often refuse to hold the criminal accountable that committed the crime! They feel society has let the criminal down and they can’t be blamed for their own actions. The scary thing is that some judges have bought into this liberal insanity. Now we must move to protect gun manufacturers from judicial harassment.” Congressman McHenry acknowledged that he would like to see an even stronger bill passed to protect gun owners and manufacturers, but spoke of the need to enact this legislation immediately, “Although S. 397 is not perfect, we must ensure that domestic companies are able to produce firearms for law abiding citizens and not allowed to die a ‘death by a thousand lawsuits’ as the liberals would prefer to see.”
10.11.2005	Today, Congressmen Charles Taylor (R-NC-11) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $22,470,000 in a U.S. Department of Agriculture loan to the Broad River Electric Power Cooperative. The funds come from USDA’s Rural Development Loan Program and will be repaid over a 35 year period. share: f t Today, Congressmen Charles Taylor (R-NC-11) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $22,470,000 in a U.S. Department of Agriculture loan to the Broad River Electric Power Cooperative. The funds come from USDA’s Rural Development Loan Program and will be repaid over a 35 year period. “A strong electric infrastructure is vital to economic development and bringing good-paying jobs to our region,” Congressman McHenry stated. “This loan will build 359 miles of new distribution lines over a seven-county region. That will provide a tremendously valuable asset for residents of this area.” The Rural Development funds will be used to serve 3,508 new electric consumers. As Congressman McHenry stated, the loan will build 359 miles of new power distribution lines and will also make other system improvements. Improvements will be made in Cleveland, Rutherford and Polk Counties in North Carolina as well as four counties in South Carolina. Cleveland County lies in the Tenth Congressional District and Polk County is in the Eleventh District. Rutherford County is split between the two districts with Congressman Taylor representing Rutherfordton, Spindale and southwestern parts of the county and Congressman McHenry representing the north and eastern areas of Rutherford. Congressman Taylor spoke of the importance of the loan to the affected counties, “Cleveland, Rutherford and Polk Counties are in a good position to benefit from these funds at a time when they are working hard to recruit new industries. We look forward to continuing to work on economic development issues with local leaders in those counties.”
10.07.2005	Earlier today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for H.R. 3893, also known as the GAS Act of 2005. “I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation because its primary focus is making gas more affordable by encouraging exploration and increasing our refining capabilities in America,” explained Congressman McHenry. share: f t Earlier today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for H.R. 3893, also known as the GAS Act of 2005. “I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation because its primary focus is making gas more affordable by encouraging exploration and increasing our refining capabilities in America,” explained Congressman McHenry. The GAS Act of 2005 will cut red tape that prevents more refineries from being built. It would also improve infrastructure within the United States so that gas and diesel can get from the refinery to the customer quicker. “Recent high gas prices have shown that we have let the number of refineries in America drop to a dangerously low level. It is ridiculous that we have not built a new refinery since 1976,” McHenry commented. “We cannot continue to let environmental extremists hinder responsible efforts to increase our refining capacity. America must become less dependant on foreign oil and the first step is building new refineries.” There were 324 refineries operating in America in 1981. Today, that number has dropped to 148. Additionally, Americans consume 21 million barrels of oil per day, but U.S. refineries only have the capability to refine 17 million barrels per day. The result is an over-reliance on oil refined in foreign countries. The GAS Act of 2005 also addresses the need for diversification in American refining capacity. Currently, 47% of refining capacity is located in states bordering the Gulf of Mexico and 28% is offshore in the Gulf. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita exposed the flaws in having so much of the country’s capacity located in such a concentrated area. The bill also includes incentives for companies to switch to clean burning coal and other alternative fuels. “This legislation is the first step in solving our long-term energy problems and reducing our dependence on foreign oil,” stated Congressman McHenry. “As a matter of national security, America must not be reliant on other countries for its energy needs. I am dedicated to making the U.S. more independent when it comes to energy production.”
10.06.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced the release of $1,370,000 to help eliminate future flood losses like those occurring in Avery County during the heavy rains of Hurricanes Frances and Ivan last year. McHenry was actively involved in securing these funds and worked with several federal agencies to hasten the release of the money. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced the release of $1,370,000 to help eliminate future flood losses like those occurring in Avery County during the heavy rains of Hurricanes Frances and Ivan last year. McHenry was actively involved in securing these funds and worked with several federal agencies to hasten the release of the money. The funds are part of a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation grant that will also include state and local funding. Avery County will receive a $1,027,995 grant from FEMA, 75 percent of the total cost. The state of North Carolina will cover the balance of $342,665. “These funds will provide much-needed assistance for families whose homes lie in floodplains and have been irreparably damaged by Hurricanes Frances and Ivan,” explained Congressman McHenry. “I support this program because it depends on the voluntary participation of the property owners involved; they are in charge and not some government bureaucrat in Washington.” The project will acquire 10 floodplain properties in the Avery County towns of Newland and Minneapolis. All acquisition and demolition activities are based solely on voluntary participation by the homeowners. The homes are located in the flood hazard area and were substantially damaged by flooding to the point of being uninhabitable. Removing these structures from the floodplain will also reduce associated pollution and environmental degradation thereby yielding benefits for the other properties in downstream communities. The FEMA Hazard Mitigation Program provides grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration. The purpose of the program is to reduce the loss of life and property due to natural disasters and to enable mitigation measures to be implemented during the immediate recovery from a disaster. Congressman McHenry commented on the importance of this grant, “I have worked hard to see that this program was available for affected families in Avery County. Now I will continue to work to see that the funds are used efficiently and wisely. This is important to Avery County and that makes it important to me.”
10.05.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1 million in a U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development loan to the J. Iverson Riddle Institute in Burke County. The funds come from Rural Development’s Community Facility Direct Loan Program and will be repaid over a 40 year period. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $1 million in a U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development loan to the J. Iverson Riddle Institute in Burke County. The funds come from Rural Development’s Community Facility Direct Loan Program and will be repaid over a 40 year period. “The Riddle Institute is one of the leading facilities in the country providing care and training for individuals with disabilities,” Congressman McHenry stated. “The institute’s work truly shows that life is precious in every stage and regardless of disabilities. These professionals seek to find that spark that each person has – that special gift or ability that helps enhance their quality of life.” The loan will go to fund the Riddle Institute’s Agro-Enterprise Project, a program that will provide opportunities for individuals with disabilities to work in an agricultural setting, learning skills that will improve their quality of life. The project establishes programs providing opportunity, independence, competence and confidence while contributing to the economy of the local community. Congressman McHenry plans to visit the Riddle Institute soon to personally congratulate the staff and clients.
09.29.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $296,777 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to three local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $296,777 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to three local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to fire departments in Burke, Lincoln, and Gaston Counties, and come in the seventh round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). “I am very pleased to see so many departments in the Tenth District receiving AFGP grants as awards continue to be announced,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants will help local fire departments update their equipment, improve operations and safety as well as acquire new vehicles and the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Below are the grant recipients in the Tenth District: • Drexel Fire Department (Burke County) – $68,400 • Denver Fire Department (Lincoln County) – $198,455 • Tryonota Volunteer Fire Department (Gaston County) – $60,064 These three awards bring the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to 24 with a total amount awarded of $2,160,845. Nine of the district’s ten counties have at least one department receiving a grant.
09.27.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has taken the latest step in his fight to stop the meth epidemic plaguing western North Carolina by co-sponsoring the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act of 2005 (HR 3889). share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has taken the latest step in his fight to stop the meth epidemic plaguing western North Carolina by co-sponsoring the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act of 2005 (HR 3889). The bill, which was introduced on the House floor last week, would restrict access to the chemicals used to make meth, strengthen the penalties for meth production, distribution and trafficking, and improve environmental regulation of toxic byproducts created during meth manufacturing. Congressman McHenry has been a leader in the fight against meth. As Vice Chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Justice and Drug Policy, the Congressman has taken a lead role in crafting legislation to deal with this growing problem, including his earlier sponsorship of a bill to increase jail time for those using or producing meth in the presence of children. HR 3889 would limit the amount of pseudoephedrine or ephedrine a person could buy at one time to 3.6 grams. Congressman McHenry explained the need for this bill, “Without pseudoephedrine, a person cannot make meth, it’s that simple. By making it harder for these drug peddlers to get the key ingredient for their poison, we can kill their ability to produce it.” The bill also places restrictions on the importation of other chemicals used to make meth, increases federal penalties for large-scale meth dealers by imposing life sentences on traffickers and allows the United States to withhold foreign aid from countries that refuse to fully comply with international drug control treaties. HR 3889 increases the enforcement of environmental laws against people operating meth labs that pollute the surrounding environment and requires the polluter to pay restitution for cleanup costs. Currently, local law enforcement agencies bear most of the burden for cost of cleanup. Law enforcement in western North Carolina has been on the front lines of the war against meth for the last few years. Shortly after being sworn-in, Congressman McHenry organized a district-wide meth conference in Lenoir, with Sheriffs from throughout the Tenth District attending. In July, the Congressman invited Rutherford County’s Chief Deputy Sheriff, Philip Byers, to testify on the meth problem before the Government Reform Subcommittee. Upon learning of Congressman McHenry’s latest offensive in the war on meth, Chief Deputy Byers commented, “I see the effects this deadly drug has on a daily basis, and we in law enforcement are so thankful to have Congressman McHenry leading the fight in Washington to give us the tools we need to win this war.”
09.23.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $149,980 in a U.S. Department of Education grant to the Orelena Hawks Puckett Institute in Burke County. The grant is part of the Disability and Rehabilitation Research Projects Program and is anticipated to be renewed for the same amount in 2006 and 2007. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $149,980 in a U.S. Department of Education grant to the Orelena Hawks Puckett Institute in Burke County. The grant is part of the Disability and Rehabilitation Research Projects Program and is anticipated to be renewed for the same amount in 2006 and 2007. “I am proud to announce this grant because of the promise it holds for so many young people with disabilities,” Congressman McHenry stated. “I am familiar with the Puckett Institute from the good work they have done with New Dimensions Charter School in Morganton, and I am confident they will use these grant funds well.” The Disability and Rehabilitation Grant Program funds projects that develop methods and rehabilitation technology geared toward the employment, family support and economic and social self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities. The Puckett Institute plans to focus specifically on young adults with disabilities. The Orelena Hawks Puckett Institute is a not-for-profit organization engaging in activities that enhance and promote healthy child, parent and family functioning. The institute is based in Morganton.
09.22.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $296,777 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to three local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $296,777 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to three local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to fire departments in Catawba, Lincoln, and Avery Counties, and come in the sixthround of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). “I am very pleased to see so many departments in the Tenth District receiving AFGP grants as awards continue to be announced,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants will help local fire departments update their equipment, improve operations and safety as well as acquire new vehicles and the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Below are the grant recipients in the Tenth District: • City of Conover Fire Department (Catawba) – $95,089 • South Fork Volunteer Fire Department (Lincoln) – $73,597 • Linville Volunteer Fire Department (Avery) – $128,091 These three awards bring the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to 21 with a total amount awarded of $1,833,926. Nine of the district’s ten counties have at least one department receiving a grant.
09.21.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) was joined by other members of the Republican Study Committee (RSC) in announcing his support for “Operation Offset,” an RSC plan to pay for Hurricane Katrina relief operations by making cuts in wasteful and duplicative government spending. Congressman McHenry made the announcement at a Capitol Hill press conference this morning. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) was joined by other members of the Republican Study Committee (RSC) in announcing his support for “Operation Offset,” an RSC plan to pay for Hurricane Katrina relief operations by making cuts in wasteful and duplicative government spending. Congressman McHenry made the announcement at a Capitol Hill press conference this morning. “Operation Offset” highlights over 100 projects and programs in the federal budget that could be reduced or eliminated to cover the cost of recovery without raising taxes or adding to the budget deficit. Congressman McHenry explained the need for government to tighten its purse strings, “When the families of my district in western North Carolina have unforeseen expenses arise, they have to look for other, less-important items to cut from the family budget. Government needs to apply that same common sense. We must not allow the liberals in Congress to politicize this issue and use it as their latest excuse to raise taxes.” Congressman McHenry specifically pointed to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) as a prime area where savings could be achieved. “Today, I heard the Governor of Mississippi say that every school in four entire counties was destroyed,” the Congressman explained. “Eliminating the federal share of CPB funding would free up $400 million this year. That is enough money to build 40 elementary schools!” Initial Department of Education statistics show the number of schools destroyed by Katrina to be 28 with 280 suffering severe damage. These numbers will only continue to rise as damage reports become more complete. The Congressman also pointed out that 85% of CPB funding comes from private sources. “Certainly, public television has its benefits, but we have to be responsible and choose our priorities. What is more important, funding the Lehrer News Hour or building schools to educate our children?”
09.19.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $500,000 in U.S. Department of Education grants to the Caldwell County school system. The grant is part of the Teaching American History Program and will be administered over a three year period. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $500,000 in U.S. Department of Education grants to the Caldwell County school system. The grant is part of the Teaching American History Program and will be administered over a three year period. “In a day when many are trying to re-write the history of our country, teaching our children the fundamental truth about our history must be one of the highest priorities of our schools,” explained Congressman McHenry. “I know teachers in Caldwell County will put these funds to good use and their students will be the ones to benefit.” The Teaching American History Grant Program supports projects to raise student achievement by improving teachers’ knowledge, understanding and appreciation of traditional American history. The Caldwell County school system plans to involve 28 high school teachers in the first two years of the project and 24 fifth and eighth grade teachers in the last year. “When I was in school, I found the story of our nation’s founding and all the years since to be fascinating; that is the reason I decided to major in history when I was in college,” stated Congressman McHenry. “I hope Caldwell County students will develop that same interest in the history of our great country.”
09.02.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $342,357 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to four local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced $342,357 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grants to four local and volunteer fire departments in the Tenth Congressional District. The grants will go to fire departments in Burke, Cleveland, and Gaston Counties, and come in the third round of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to help firefighters and first responders throughout the country. Local departments applied for the grants, and the program is administered by the Department’s office for State and Local Government Coordination & Preparedness (SLGCP). “I am very pleased to see so many departments in the Tenth District receiving AFGP grants as awards continue to be announced,” said Congressman McHenry. “These grants will help local and volunteer fire departments update their equipment, improve operations and safety and acquire new vehicles and the tools necessary to respond in emergency situations.” Below are the grant recipients in the Tenth District: • Salem Fire and Rescue Protection Association, Inc. (Burke) – $108,300 • Shanghai Volunteer Fire Department (Cleveland) – $75,525 • Hugh’s Pond Volunteer Fire Department (Gaston) – $124,047 • Glen Alpine Fire Department (Burke) – $34,485 These four awards bring the total number of departments receiving AFGP grants in North Carolina’s Tenth District to twelve with a total amount awarded of $1,019,086. Nine of the district’s ten counties have at least one department receiving a grant.
08.02.2005	After seven busy months in Washington, DC, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) returned to western North Carolina for a district work period over the month of August. share: f t After seven busy months in Washington, DC, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) returned to western North Carolina for a district work period over the month of August. The congressman will hold eight townhall meetings for constituents from all ten counties in Tenth Congressional District, which includes all or parts of Avery, Mitchell, Burke, Caldwell, Catawba, Iredell, Gaston, Lincoln, Cleveland and Rutherford counties. He will meet with law enforcement officials, community college administrators, small business owners, teachers, and manufacturing workers at events throughout the district. Photos of various events can be found in the photo section of this website. For more information on public events being held by Congressman McHenry, please contact the Hickory congressional office at (828)327-6100. Congressman McHenry returns to Washington on September 6th when Congress reconvenes at the U.S. Capitol. ###
07.28.2005	In the most hotly contested vote of the 109th Congress, North Carolina Congressman Patrick McHenry voted this evening against the Central America Free Trade Agreement – a law that would loosen U.S. trade with the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama. share: f t In the most hotly contested vote of the 109th Congress, North Carolina Congressman Patrick McHenry voted this evening against the Central America Free Trade Agreement – a law that would loosen U.S. trade with the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama. U.S. House leaders had been trying to bring the bill to the floor since May, and finally brought the bill to a vote in the full House, where it passed by an ultra-narrow 217-215 margin a few minutes after midnight. “CAFTA is a bad deal for western North Carolina workers and families,” said Congressman McHenry. “I made a promise to my constituents that I would oppose the measure unless it were changed to protect western North Carolina workers. It remained unchanged, and I voted ‘no.’” “We have seen a continued loss of good jobs in western North Carolina to foreign countries,” he continued. “In the last year alone, the tenth congressional district has seen 4,512 layoffs – and those do not even include the recently-announced 1,100 jobs lost at Broyhill Industries in Rutherford and Caldwell counties. Too many of these jobs have gone overseas.” “We can bring jobs back to the district, but CAFTA is the wrong approach. We need to better fund our community colleges and vocational training programs because by doing so we can create a better-trained and more competitive workforce that will attract new business and investment. Education, training and tax relief will create new jobs in western North Carolina – not a law that will open the door to foreign countries undercutting American workers.”
07.26.2005	With foreign trade on the frontburner in Congress, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today voted for legislation that will toughen foreign trade with the People’s Republic of China. share: f t With foreign trade on the frontburner in Congress, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today voted for legislation that will toughen foreign trade with the People’s Republic of China. The United States Trade Rights Enforcement Act, or H.R. 3283, will help American manufacturers and farmers counter illegal Chinese subsidies by establishing mechanisms to monitor and make sure that China abides by international trading rules. The legislation also instructs the U.S. Department of Treasury to submit a report to Congress describing actions of foreign countries that may be manipulating their currencies to gain an unfair trade advantage. The bill failed to gather the votes Tuesday to pass unamended, but will come up again for a vote on Wednesday with possible amendments. “China doesn't trade fairly, and we need to hold their feet to the fire and force them to abide by our trade laws, otherwise there will be retaliation for that lack of compliance,” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation will help make sure that China and all countries on the world stage play by the rules so we can trade fairly.” The bill will establish a system of comprehensive monitoring of Chinese compliance with its trade obligations on intellectual property rights, market access for American goods and services, and accounting of Chinese subsidies. U.S. House leaders are also planning to bring up the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) tomorrow, which Congressman McHenry opposes. ###
07.21.2005	Today, the U.S. House passed H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2005. The bill reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act which was designed to foster a more effective domestic War on Terror. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for the bill. share: f t Today, the U.S. House passed H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2005. The bill reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act which was designed to foster a more effective domestic War on Terror. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted for the bill. The USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2005 reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act, which originally passed in 2001. The bill removes major legal barriers that prevent the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work. It also allows law enforcement to use surveillance against more terror-related activities and allowed the authorization of nationwide search warrants. “The PATRIOT Act provides law enforcement and national security professionals with the tools they need to best protect our homeland,” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation will better enable those fighting the War on Terror here at home to root out and prosecute those who would do harm to our citizens.” Many methods that federal and state law enforcement officials have been using to fight terrorism are outdated because of the massive advances in information and telecommunications technology in recent years. The USA PATRIOT Act updates the law to reflect new technologies and new threats, and increases penalties for those who commit terrorist crimes and those who harbor terrorists. “Now, the FBI, federal prosecutors, and others can go after terrorists with the same tools they have used for decades to successfully fight organized crime and drug dealers,” continued Congressman McHenry. “The USA PATRIOT Act is a no-nonsense anti-terror provision that will protect America without needlessly encroaching on our civil liberties.” The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate, where action is expected in the coming months. President Bush has been pushing Congress to pass the legislation in a timely manner. ###
07.18.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear on MSNBC’s Scarborough Country this evening at 10pm to discuss the Democrats’ coordinated partisan attacks against White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear on MSNBC’s Scarborough Country this evening at 10pm to discuss the Democrats’ coordinated partisan attacks against White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove. MSNBC’s Scarborough Country airs tonight at 10 PM (EST). ###
07.14.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act, a bill that authorizes studies for water and wastewater issues throughout America. A portion of the legislation included a provision to conduct an Army Corps of Engineers study of existing water and water quality-related infrastructure in Lincoln County, North Carolina. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act, a bill that authorizes studies for water and wastewater issues throughout America. A portion of the legislation included a provision to conduct an Army Corps of Engineers study of existing water and water quality-related infrastructure in Lincoln County, North Carolina. In a February, 2005 meeting the Lincoln County Board of Commissioners asked Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) to help produce a survey of the current infrastructure that would examine the best ways to connect county water and wastewater infrastructure. The bill, which passed today, will assist local government to determine the most efficient and effective way to connect infrastructure in Lincoln County. “One of the most important ways to increase new capital and create new job opportunities is to make sure appropriate infrastructure is in place, and update it when necessary,” said Congressman McHenry. “This study will help us know how to connect current infrastructure, and with that information we can help create more logical and efficient growth in economically sensitive areas of western North Carolina.” The bill will now be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration, and Congressman McHenry will urge the Senate to keep this project in the bill. Once signed by President Bush, funding must be allocated by the Corps of Engineers to conduct the study.
07.12.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today introduced The Credit Union Charter Choice Act, designed to protect the rights of credit union members to choose a financial charter that best fits their needs if the majority of voting members believe a change is in their best interest. share: f t WASHINGTON – Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today introduced The Credit Union Charter Choice Act, designed to protect the rights of credit union members to choose a financial charter that best fits their needs if the majority of voting members believe a change is in their best interest. The bill would amend the Federal Credit Union Act to enable credit unions to speak freely to members, the general public, and with the media regarding any conversion form a mutual savings institution, and prevent the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) from requiring any notice that contains statements or information that is speculative, regarding future operations of the converted financial institution. The bill is cosponsored by Reps. Ed Towns (D-NY-10), Sam Johnson (R-TX-3), Paul Gilmore (R-OH-5) and Peter King (R-NY-3). “Our central aim with this legislation is to protect the rights of our constituents to choose a financial institution that fits our needs,” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation is not anti-credit union. It is pro-consumer, and once passed will not alter in any way the services offered to constituents or the day to day operations of any credit union.” Recently, the NCUA regional office overturned a conversion attempt by the Community Credit Union in Texas, whose members sought to convert to a thrift. Fully 71% of the voting members favored the conversion, which was certified by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as well as the Texas State Credit Union Regulator. But the conversion was blocked by NCUA in what was widely viewed as an arbitrary manner. Congressman McHenry hopes to see action on the bill in the House Financial Services in the near future. A copy of the legislation attached to this e-mail.
07.12.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today introduced The Credit Union Charter Choice Act, designed to protect the rights of credit union members to choose a financial charter that best fits their needs if the majority of voting members believe a change is in their best interest. share: f t WASHINGTON – Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today introduced The Credit Union Charter Choice Act, designed to protect the rights of credit union members to choose a financial charter that best fits their needs if the majority of voting members believe a change is in their best interest. The bill would amend the Federal Credit Union Act to enable credit unions to speak freely to members, the general public, and with the media regarding any conversion form a mutual savings institution, and prevent the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) from requiring any notice that contains statements or information that is speculative, regarding future operations of the converted financial institution. The bill is cosponsored by Reps. Ed Towns (D-NY-10), Sam Johnson (R-TX-3), Paul Gilmore (R-OH-5) and Peter King (R-NY-3). “Our central aim with this legislation is to protect the rights of our constituents to choose a financial institution that fits our needs,” said Congressman McHenry. “This legislation is not anti-credit union. It is pro-consumer, and once passed will not alter in any way the services offered to constituents or the day to day operations of any credit union.” Recently, the NCUA regional office overturned a conversion attempt by the Community Credit Union in Texas, whose members sought to convert to a thrift. Fully 71% of the voting members favored the conversion, which was certified by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as well as the Texas State Credit Union Regulator. But the conversion was blocked by NCUA in what was widely viewed as an arbitrary manner. Congressman McHenry hopes to see action on the bill in the House Financial Services in the near future.
07.06.2005	Congressman McHenry today announced two U.S. Department of Education (USDOE) grants of $410,540 for Caldwell and Burke County schools. The grants will fund the Tech-Prep Demonstration Program, which is designed to teach high school students in technical and communications skills, as well as workplace competency. share: f t Congressman McHenry today announced two U.S. Department of Education (USDOE) grants of $410,540 for Caldwell and Burke County schools. The grants will fund the Tech-Prep Demonstration Program, which is designed to teach high school students in technical and communications skills, as well as workplace competency. The Caldwell County Career Center will begin full day technology prep programs for juniors and seniors who want to accelerate their academic and technical progress in automotive technology, construction, health and medical sciences, or information technology. Students will participate in the program with Caldwell Community College, where professors will encourage and assist students to make the transition into university majors in those study areas. Burke County Public Schools will begin a “Middle College” program in collaboration with Western Piedmont Community College and Blue Ridge Healthcare, Inc., to integrate high school and college experiences and better prepare students for college and the workforce. The program will offer an academic and career counseling program to help students identify academic and career goals, and students will be able to earn associate degrees or certificates that correspond with workforce needs, especially in the healthcare field. “These grants will help Caldwell and Burke County students at a very crucial time for our region,” said Congressman McHenry. “This is an $800,000 investment into our workforce and economy by training future workers for good-paying jobs.” The grants were designed by USDOE to combine efforts between local secondary schools, community colleges and local businesses to prepare students for the workforce. The programs will encourage continuing education through community colleges, advanced workforce training, and help with job placement upon graduation.
07.01.2005	On Tuesday, July 5th, Congressman Patrick McHenry will host a town meeting for families that homeschool their kids. The event will be a picnic at Henry Fork Park in Catawba County from 11AM until 2pm. All interested families from the area and members of the media are invited, and encouraged to bring a picnic lunch. share: f t On Tuesday, July 5th, Congressman Patrick McHenry will host a town meeting for families that homeschool their kids. The event will be a picnic at Henry Fork Park in Catawba County from 11AM until 2pm. All interested families from the area and members of the media are invited, and encouraged to bring a picnic lunch. Congressman McHenry, a strong supporter of homeschooling, believes that parents know how best to educate their children, not the federal government. He is a co-sponsor of the Family Education Freedom Act (H.R. 406), which gives a helping hand to families that homeschool. He will discuss that legislation and other issues with families that attend, and be able to answer questions from the media. Participants are encouraged to bring a picnic lunch and enjoy a day in the park. WHAT: Homeschool Town Meeting/Picnic WHO: Congressman McHenry, Interested Families, News Media WHERE: Henry Fork Park, Catawba County WHEN: Tuesday, July 5th: 11am-2pm OTHER: Bring a picnic lunch! For more information, please contact Laurie Moody at the congressman’s Hickory office at (828)327-6100. ###
06.30.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today addressed a crowd of activists and journalists in front of the U.S. Supreme Court urging the federal courts to do better when it comes to protecting religious liberty. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today addressed a crowd of activists and journalists in front of the U.S. Supreme Court urging the federal courts to do better when it comes to protecting religious liberty. Joined by Reps. Istook (R-OK), Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD), Joseph Pitts (R-PA) and William Murray of the Religious Freedom Coalition, Congressman McHenry challenged the Supreme Court and federal courts to drop their secular agenda and begin protecting religious liberty. The conference comes after Supreme Court decisions over the last week declaring that the Ten Commandments could not be posted in courthouses, and another that paved the way toward land seizures of churches for development purposes. “Today marked the opening of the movie War of the Worlds,” said Congressman McHenry, “but what we’re seeing here in America is a war by the secular left-wing ACLU against people with traditional moral values.” On Monday, the Supreme Court’s McCreary County, Ky., v. American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky decision ruled unconstitutional a Ten Commandments display on government property, and forbid framed copies on the walls of two rural Kentucky courthouses. Last Thursday, in Kelo v. City of New London the court ruled that local governments may seize people's homes and businesses – even against their will – for private economic development if the result is increased property taxes. Churches, which do not generate revenue, are unprotected by the decision, paving the way for developers to go to court to seize churches and lay down shopping centers or office parks, which generate local tax revenue. “What few realize is that if we use tax revenues as a benchmark,” said Congressman McHenry, “there is nothing to keep a shopping center from going to court to knock down a church. After all, a shopping center will create sales taxes and property taxes, and churches don’t pay taxes.” Congressman McHenry, along with Congressman John Culberson of Texas, is sponsoring a Constitutional Amendment to term-limit federal district court judges, as a way to provide an additional check on the increased power of the federal judiciary.
06.27.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry today railed against the U.S. Supreme Court’s McCreary County v. ACLU decision, which outlawed the display of the Ten Commandments on public lands. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry today railed against the U.S. Supreme Court’s McCreary County v. ACLU decision, which outlawed the display of the Ten Commandments on public lands. The court ruled 5-4 that displaying the Ten Commandments in government buildings or property violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. “Today’s decision is another example of the federal courts legislating their personal values from the bench,” said Congressman McHenry. “The First Amendment was designed to protect the church from the federal government – not vice versa – and today’s decision is another attack by the judiciary on all people of faith. Don’t murder, don’t steal, don’t lie – these are universal values. This court is attacking the rights of people of faith, and as a Congress we must find ways to balance its behavior.” As a way of tempering an increasingly active judiciary, Congressmen McHenry and John Culberson (R-TX-7) have sponsored a Constitutional Amendment to term-limit federal district court judges. ###
06.24.2005	Last week, Avery High School upcoming senior Courtney Henderson visited the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) as part of her visit to our nation’s capital for winning the N.C. Electric Cooperatives Essay Contest. share: f t Last week, Avery High School upcoming senior Courtney Henderson visited the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) as part of her visit to our nation’s capital for winning the N.C. Electric Cooperatives Essay Contest. Ms. Henderson’s essay on Mountain Electric, and its project “Operation Pocket Change”, was chosen by N.C. Cooperatives as the winner out of her entire 11th Grade Class at Avery High. “My essay touched on how Mountain Electric’s “Operation Pocket Change” helps give back to our community by rounding off the remaining change from people’s electric bills and donating it to various social projects,” Courtney said. “Just that little bit of change from each bill is making a huge difference in my community.” Courtney, a native of Newland, had never been to Washington D.C. before her visit last week. While in Washington, she also visited the U.S. Capitol, the White House, the National Cathedral, and the National Monument. “I remember learning about Washington in my history class; but, it is much better when I can actually see what I have read about,” Courtney said when asked about what all she has seen so far in D.C. “The greatest part of this experience was getting the opportunity to meet other students from around the country.” “I have been able to meet students from Tennessee, Arkansas, Hawaii, Indiana, New Mexico, and Kentucky!” A photo of Courtney Henderson is available by contacting Jonathan Collegio in Congressman McHenry's Washington, DC office. ###
06.23.2005	Today, the House passed H.J. Res. 10, The Flag Protection Amendment, which proposes an amendment to the Constitution that would authorize the Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted with a strong majority in the House to pass the amendment by a 286-130 margin. share: f t Today, the House passed H.J. Res. 10, The Flag Protection Amendment, which proposes an amendment to the Constitution that would authorize the Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) voted with a strong majority in the House to pass the amendment by a 286-130 margin. Since 1994, 119 incidents involving flag desecration have been reported in the states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. In 1989, laws on the books of the federal government and 48 states (every state except Alaska and Wyoming) outlawed the physical desecration of the American flag. “The American flag is an enduring symbol of liberty, democracy, and justice,” said Congressman McHenry. “I am proud to help protect it as we approach Independence Day and as our soldiers rally behind it in the War on Terror.” The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1989 in Texas v. Johnson that state laws prohibiting flag desecration were unconstitutional. Congress then passed a law outlawing the practice, which was also quickly struck down by the Court. Since then, Congress has repeatedly attempted to ban the practice with a Constitutional Amendment. To be enacted into law, the resolution will also have to be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the Senate, and then ratified by three-fourths of America’s state legislatures. “The flag honors those who have protected it for the last 225 years,” he continued, “and as the greatest symbol of America history of liberty and democracy the Stars and Stripes represents the very best we have to offer.”
06.21.2005	Last night, Congressmen Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) and Bob Beauprez (R-CO-7) introduced a bill that would prohibit directing federal tax dollars as foreign aid to countries that fail to extradite criminals suspected of killing police officers. share: f t Last night, Congressmen Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) and Bob Beauprez (R-CO-7) introduced a bill that would prohibit directing federal tax dollars as foreign aid to countries that fail to extradite criminals suspected of killing police officers. The bill’s language will also be offered as an amendment when the larger foreign operations appropriations bill is considered by the entire U.S. House next week. The McHenry-Beauprez legislation was written after several cases where police officers were allegedly murdered by illegal aliens who then fled abroad, and will not face extradition due to foreign laws that prohibit extradition when capital crimes are involved. One case involves the murder of Denver police detective Donald Young, whose alleged assailant Raul Gomez-Garcia, is being held in a Mexican jail. Another case involves a convicted felon, now in Mexico, who had been deported three times before allegedly killing Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy David March three years ago. “Murdering law enforcement officials is one of the most serious crimes in our justice system,” said Congressman McHenry, “and countries that won’t extradite cop-killers are not friends of the United States. Illegal immigrants who commit violent crimes in this country have to be brought to justice swiftly, and it is a mind-numbing absurdity that it can take up to three years to extradite this type of criminal. A country’s failure to extradite over capital crimes actually creates the perverse incentive to commit capital crimes, and this is what we’re trying to prevent with this legislation.” The bill would prohibit foreign aid to any country that fails to extradite suspects accused of killing federal, state and local law enforcement officers – including police officers, judges, parole officers, or any officer in the criminal justice system.
06.20.2005	Today, the U.S. Department of Labor announced the certification of a petition to grant Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to workers who will lose their jobs at several area Broyhill Furniture Industries plants. share: f t Today, the U.S. Department of Labor announced the certification of a petition to grant Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to workers who will lose their jobs at the Broyhill Furniture Industries plants in Caldwell and Rutherford counties. The certification will cover workers who lost or will lose their jobs from April 29, 2004 to June 16, 2007. Broyhill Industries filed the petition on behalf of company employees at the Occasional #1 and Harper plants in Lenoir. On June 9th, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) asked the Labor Department to expedite the petition for assistance. Now granted, TAA will give employees of those plants who have lost their jobs access to training and income assistance in addition to regular Unemployment Insurance Compensation (UIC) benefits. “My office requested that the Labor Department act quickly, and they answered the call,” said Congressman McHenry. “TAA will help those in western North Carolina who lost their jobs with a transition into new types of work. This is the first step – and we’re going to keep working to get the help we need.” In addition to the Harper and Occasional #1 plants, the Department of Labor ruled that employees of Lenoir Chair #1, Broyhill Marion Plant, Lenoir Particleboard Plant, Lenoir Central Lumber Yard, Lenoir Central Warehouse, and Broyhill Security in Lenoir are also eligible for certification. All employees of those facilities who have lost or will lose their jobs due to layoffs from April 29, 2004 to June 16, 2007 will be eligible for TAA assistance. The plants were also certified for Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) for older workers. Broyhill employees who believe they are covered under this certified petition are encouraged to contact their local Employment Security Commission (ESC) office to determine if they are eligible for assistance and to obtain help in applying for assistance. Congressman McHenry’s office will also participate in several informational events for dislocated workers over the coming weeks. Details about these events will be made available as they are finalized. Anyone with questions about these petitions or the TAA program in general are encouraged to contact Congressman McHenry's Hickory District Office at 828-327-6100.
06.17.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today voted with a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives to cut funding for the United Nations, if it fails to reform the way it operates. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today voted with a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives to cut funding for the United Nations, if it fails to reform the way it operates. The legislation would withhold half of America’s dues to the general budget of the United Nations, if it fails to meet a list of demands for change. A failure to reform would also result in refusal to support new and expanded peacekeeping missions. “The status quo at the United Nations is unacceptable,” said Congressman McHenry. “Our tax dollars should no longer be spent on the U.N.'s inefficient, unaccountable bureaucracy, and which often promotes policies against the American people and our interests,” he continued. With amendments, the bill seeks 46 specific reforms, including establishing an independent oversight board, an ethics office, and denying countries that violate human rights from serving on human rights commissions. “Today’s legislation moves to reform the U.N., so that it can fulfill its mission,” continued McHenry. “When we see scandals and corruption in the headlines, it is increasingly difficult to fund this body without reform.”
06.16.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today announced that his request for a grant to the Iredell County Sheriff’s Office was included in today’s House Appropriations bill, which is broadly expected to pass later this evening. The request would help fund a fingerprint system for the Sheriff’s crime lab. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today announced that his request for a grant to the Iredell County Sheriff’s Office was included in today’s House Appropriations bill, which is broadly expected to pass later this evening. The request would help fund a fingerprint system for the Sheriff’s crime lab. The provision will be included in today’s FY06 Science, Departments of State, Justice and Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which is pending final approval in the U.S. House today. “Fighting crime is a high priority in western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry, who is vice-chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice and Drug Policy. “This request will help the Sheriff’s office purchase the Omnitrack Fingerprint Identification System to classify and identify fingerprints, as well as search the federal system to match criminals with crimes.” Each year, the House and Senate authorize the activities of the federal government, then appropriate revenue to fund them. Upon passage, the bill must go through the U.S. Senate before a House and Senate Conference committee agrees on an exact dollar amount.
06.13.2005	Earlier today, the U.S. Department of Labor notified Congressman Patrick McHenry that the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition filed by employees of Broyhill Furniture Industries’ corporate offices in Lenoir has been certified. As a result of this certification, all employees of the corporate office who lost their jobs or incurred a reduction in hours on or after April 18, 2004 are eligible for TAA benefits. Corporate office employees who suffer future job losses or reductions in hours up to June 9, 2007 are also qualified for assistance under the certification. share: f t Earlier today, the U.S. Department of Labor notified Congressman Patrick McHenry that the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition filed by employees of Broyhill Furniture Industries’ corporate offices in Lenoir has been certified. As a result of this certification, all employees of the corporate office who lost their jobs or incurred a reduction in hours on or after April 18, 2004 are eligible for TAA benefits. Corporate office employees who suffer future job losses or reductions in hours up to June 9, 2007 are also qualified for assistance under the certification. Congressman McHenry had asked the Department of Labor to expedite this petition, which was filed on May 4, 2005, and another petition filed for employees of the Harper and Occasional #1 plants in Lenoir last week. The agency has committed to make every effort to rule on the petition for Harper and Occasional #1 by the end of this month. Upon learning of the decision, Congressman McHenry said “I am happy that we can now move forward with helping workers who have lost their jobs at Broyhill. Certification of this petition is an important step in helping trade impacted employees of Broyhill’s corporate offices recover from the series of devastating job cuts in Caldwell County.” The Congressman emphasized that this was only an initial step in the overall process and that he plans to continue to fight for the workers of western North Carolina, “TAA certification is not the final step by any stretch of the imagination. I am working hard with local leaders to stop the loss of manufacturing jobs and to recruit new industry so people who train for new careers under TAA have jobs to enter when they complete their training.” Broyhill Corporate office employees who believe they are covered under this certified petition are encouraged to contact their local Employment Security Commission (ESC) office to determine if they are eligible for assistance and to obtain help in applying for assistance.
06.10.2005	Below are the comments delivered this afternoon by Congressman McHenry in Lenoir, NC regarding the recently announced layoffs at Broyhill Industries, as well as other companies in the area. share: f t Below are the comments delivered this afternoon by Congressman McHenry in Lenoir, NC regarding the recently announced layoffs at Broyhill Industries, as well as other companies in the area. "I received news of the latest Broyhill plant closing Wednesday morning. This is obviously a very difficult time for the folks whose jobs will be eliminated, as well as their families. Dealing with layoffs is never easy, and we should remember that there has been an ongoing problem in western North Carolina long before the Broyhill announcement. It is important that we do not forget about employees of other area companies who have lost their jobs and face the same problems faced by the victims of this latest closing. There are some things I can do as a Member of Congress to help in this situation, and I’d like to tell you about those today. First, I got a commitment from the U.S Department of Labor yesterday that they will expedite our request for Trade Adjustment Assistance. This is the first step to access federal money to help our workers. It will provide retraining money, reemployment services, assistance with job searches, and tax credits for health insurance. Second, I’m sending part of my Congressional staff to Broyhill plants this week to meet with and answer questions from workers who are losing their jobs. We’ve already gotten dozens of calls – and that’s why we’re going to meet with them – face-to-face – to answer questions they need on the federal help they deserve. Next, my Congressional staff and I will be working closely with the Caldwell Community College to insure that workers that want to improve their training and education will have that opportunity. In a competitive job market, our people need to have the best training possible – and our community colleges get the best results for our region. Finally, I’ll be coordinating with the Caldwell County Commission and the Lenoir officials to make sure we’re getting results for people. As partners, we’re going to have a long-term plan of action to deal with this challenge – and a strategy to bring good paying jobs to our area. I’m going to do my part of make sure we get help from our federal government. This is a difficult time for everyone involved. We will do everything we can to make sure that workers get the assistance and benefits they need and deserve. This is a problem not just for those laid off, but for everyone in the community. Working together, I am confident we can overcome these setbacks and realize our area’s great potential for growth and opportunity."
06.08.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry has asked the U.S. Department of Labor to expedite processing for the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition filed by Broyhill Furniture Industries, on behalf of company employees at the Occasional #1 and Harper plants in Lenoir. If certified, the petition would give employees of those plants who have lost their jobs access to training and income assistance in addition to regular Unemployment Insurance Compensation (UIC) benefits. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry has asked the U.S. Department of Labor to expedite processing for the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition filed by Broyhill Furniture Industries, on behalf of company employees at the Occasional #1 and Harper plants in Lenoir. If certified, the petition would give employees of those plants who have lost their jobs access to training and income assistance in addition to regular Unemployment Insurance Compensation (UIC) benefits. McHenry has also asked the agency to expedite a separate petition filed by employees of the company’s corporate office in Lenoir who have lost their jobs due to recent domestic cutbacks at Broyhill Industries. “I know how tough this is on our local workers and their families, but we’re going to do all that we can to help them during this tough time, and my staff is ready to assist workers who are eligible for TAA benefits to receive the benefits they deserve,” said Congressman McHenry. “The training and income assistance available through the TAA program can help dislocated workers acquire new skills in growth industries such as health care and technology.” In his request, Congressman McHenry emphasized the importance of assistance being available to impacted workers as quickly as possible. In addition, he cited the need for the state agencies and training providers who coordinate TAA services to have early notification so services can be delivered as efficiently as possible. Constituents who have questions about these petitions or the TAA program in general are encouraged to contact Congressman McHenry's Hickory District Office at 828-327-6100.
06.01.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry yesterday hosted a reception at his Hickory, NC office for the eleven high school students from the Tenth District who gained admission to the nation’s military academies. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry yesterday hosted a reception at his Hickory, NC office for the eleven high school students from the Tenth District who gained admission to the nation’s military academies. Admission to the academies is extremely competitive, and requires the nomination of a congressman. Forty-eight students applied for the academies, and eleven from the Tenth Congressional district were selected for the programs. Those selected from North Carolina will start basic training in late June-mid July, and begin their respective programs in August. “What a great honor to have eleven new students from western North Carolina attending our military academies,” said Congressman McHenry. “These students represent the best America and North Carolina has to offer. They are our best, our brightest, our most courageous, and they make all of us proud.” By county, the students selected to the programs are: Iredell County Daniel Benfield, South Iredell High School—US Air Force Academy Heather Welborn, Mooresville High School—US Naval Academy Burke County Calem Harris, Freedom High School—US Naval Academy Andrew Rice, Freedom High School—US Military Academy at West Point Cleveland County Stewart Livsie, Kings Mountain High School—US Merchant Marine Academy Catawba County USMC LCPL Jeffery Walker, Newton-Conover High (2003, Iraq War veteran)—US Naval Academy Keith Fenlason, Tabernacle Christian School—US Military Academy at West Point Jeffrey Teague, Fred T. Foard High School—US Naval Academy David Hubbard, Bandys High School—US Military Academy at West Point Matt Oaks, Bandys High School—US Merchant Marine Academy Lincoln County Ryan Moore, Lincolnton High School—US Naval Academy For more information, please contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576.
05.26.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will spend the Memorial Day recess in western North Carolina, visiting constituents across the congressional district. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will spend the Memorial Day recess in western North Carolina, visiting constituents across the congressional district. On Tuesday, May 31st, the congressman will spend the entire day in Mitchell and Avery Counties, where he will meet with constituents and organizations in Spruce Pine and Newland. He will also hold his first-ever town hall meeting at the new courthouse in Bakersville. All interested parties, including local media, are invited to the town hall event. BAKERSVILLE TOWNHALL MEETING Time: 7-8pm Location: New Courthouse 328 Longview Drive Bakersville Who: Congressman McHenry, Western North Carolinians The congressman will discuss issues like jobs and the economy, health care, and retirement security. As he will tour Mayland Community College in Spruce Pine earlier in the day, he will also discuss the importance of continuing education with constituents. Congressman McHenry encourages everyone in Mitchell and Avery Counties who is interested to attend. For more information, contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576.
05.24.2005	Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC-10) will today speak on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in opposition to H.R. 810, a controversial bill that would use federal tax dollars to pursue research that requires the destruction of human embryos. share: f t Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC-10) will today speak on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in opposition to H.R. 810, a controversial bill that would use federal tax dollars to pursue research that requires the destruction of human embryos. The bill, sponsored by liberal Republican congressman Michael Castle (DE) would direct the National Institutes of Health to fund stem cell research using human embryos. While embryonic stem cell research is legal under current law and is currently being used in private sector research, no reliable therapies have resulted from the research. However, 58 successful treatments have resulted from adult stem cell research, which does not destroy human embryos. McHenry supports legislation, also offered today, that would increase funding on research of adult stem cells. “Stem cell research is already alive and well,” said Congressman McHenry. “Adult stem cells are currently being used to treat people, and successfully. This bill’s approach, however, will remove stem cells from human embryos. This will kill the embryos, and whether we like to think about it or not, embryos are human beings. Every human life begins as a human embryo, and by extracting their stem cells, H.R. 810 will use taxpayer money to kill human life.” The bill, however, is expected to pass the U.S. House, and then be brought to the Senate for consideration. President Bush last week promised a veto of the bill. A 2/3 supermajority in both the House and Senate would be required upon a veto in order to become law.
05.13.2005	Tenth District Congressman Patrick McHenry’s staff will hold office hours in Mooresville on Thursday, May 19th from 9:00 – 5:30 in the Human Resources Conference Room at the Mooresville Municipal Building – 413 North Main Street. Due to construction, visitors should use the Church Street entrance. share: f t Tenth District Congressman Patrick McHenry’s staff will hold office hours in Mooresville on Thursday, May 19th from 9:00 – 5:30 in the Human Resources Conference Room at the Mooresville Municipal Building – 413 North Main Street. Due to construction, visitors should use the Church Street entrance. Brett Keeter, McHenry’s Regional Director for Iredell County, will be available to meet with constituents who have issues with federal agencies including Social Security, Veterans affairs, immigration, etc. He will also be there to listen to any concerns that constituents have with federal policy or pending legislation before Congress. Keeter will then relay these concerns to Congressman McHenry. Iredell County is split between the Tenth and the Fifth Congressional Districts, with all areas in south and southwest Iredell including the towns of Mooresville and Troutman falling in the Tenth District. This will be the second time McHenry’s staff has worked out of Mooresville. Keeter held office hours at town hall last month and had several constituents visit him with issues. Congressman McHenry maintains district offices in Hickory, Shelby and Spruce Pine.
05.08.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced Academy Day on Saturday, May 14th at Catawba Valley Community College. The congressman will attend the event. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced Academy Day on Saturday, May 14th at Catawba Valley Community College. The congressman will attend the event. Academy Day is an opportunity for students in the Tenth District of North Carolina to learn more about the process of seeking a congressional nomination to a United States Service Academy. Students will be able to meet with Congressman McHenry and representatives from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Date: Saturday, May 14, 2005 Time: 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Location: Catawba Valley Community College, Highway 70 East, Hickory, NC Invited: All middle and high school students, parents, guidance counselors and ROTC instructors For more information, contact Laurie Moody at Congressman McHenry’s Hickory District Office by phone at 828-327-6100 or 800-477-2576.
05.06.2005	Today, the Washington Times reported on a letter from House Republican Freshmen Reps. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA) and Geoff Davis (R-KY), which asked Democrat Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to stop using a double standard on ethics. share: f t Today, the Washington Times reported on a letter from House Republican Freshmen Reps. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA) and Geoff Davis (R-KY), which asked Democrat Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to stop using a double standard on ethics. Mrs. Pelosi has publicly stated that travel by members of Congress paid for by lobbyists is a “violation” of House rules, and for that reason she urged the House Ethics Committee to investigate Majority Leader Tom DeLay. But no less than five members of her own party – Norm Dicks (D-WA), Neil Abercrombie (D-HA), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), James Clyburn (D-SC), and Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH) – have submitted official travel forms listing lobbyists as the sponsors of their trips. Yet, Mrs. Pelosi has not called for an investigation for members of her own party. “The question is whether Nancy Pelosi is willing to hold her own caucus to the same standards as she is holding Tom DeLay, and it is becoming more and more obvious that she isn't," said Congressman McHenry. “She has publicly stated that trips paid for by lobbyists are violations of House rules, and in Mr. Delay's case it requires an investigation. Why not then investigate five members of her own caucus who have had travel paid for by lobbyists?” The Washington Times covered the letter today. The story can be viewed at: http://www.washingtontimes.com/national/20050504-122024-4420r.htm For more information, or to schedule an interview, please call Jonathan Collegio in Congressman McHenry’s office at (202) 225-2576.
05.03.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced staff changes in his Washington, DC and Hickory, North Carolina offices. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced staff changes in his Washington, DC and Hickory, North Carolina offices. Chief of Staff Dee Stewart, who served as general consultant to the McHenry for Congress 2004 campaign, has left the Washington, DC office to return to his home and business in Raleigh, North Carolina. The move has been planned since Mr. Stewart came to Washington in January to organize McHenry's congressional office and hire staff. District Director Jason Deans, who runs the Hickory, NC office will be the new Chief of Staff and will manage all 16 of the congressman’s district and Washington staff. In the Washington, DC office, Legislative Director Jon Causey will become Administrative Assistant, where he will continue managing the legislative staff and begin running the day-to-day administration of the office. Communications Director Jonathan Collegio will become Deputy Chief of Staff, where he will continue to handle communications and advise the congressman on political and policy matters. “In Congress, there are few things more important than having a first rate staff that is sharp, savvy, and competent to the tee,” said Congressman McHenry. “Dee is a wonderful manager, a brilliant strategist, and he helped me to hire our world class staff.” Deans, a longtime friend and colleague of McHenry, formerly served as campaign manager for McHenry for Congress 2004. Causey has worked for four North Carolina members of Congress, including Senator Jesse Helms, Rep. Howard Coble, Rep. Robin Hayes, and now Congressman McHenry. Collegio, a former journalist who has worked on numerous political campaigns, was previously spokesman for Americans for Tax Reform, a national taxpayer advocacy organization. In addition to his Washington, DC and Hickory, NC offices, Congressman McHenry maintains smaller district offices in both Shelby and Spruce Pine, NC.
04.29.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will attend Saturday evening’s reception celebrating the re-opening of Hickory Regional Airport’s commercial air service to the region. Flights to and from Hickory Regional ended in 2002, but Delta Airlines has agreed to begin service to Hickory starting on Saturday. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will attend Saturday evening’s reception celebrating the re-opening of Hickory Regional Airport’s commercial air service to the region. Flights to and from Hickory Regional ended in 2002, but Delta Airlines has agreed to begin service to Hickory starting on Saturday. “The opening of the Hickory Regional Airport to commercial flights is crucial to economic development in Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry, who commutes to and from Washington, DC through Charlotte Douglas International Airport. “Hickory has been without service since 2002, which has caused added hardship to a region already in need of jobs and further economic development. I applaud airport director Tim Deike and everyone working on the project for their hard work in getting the airport back up and running with commercial flights.” Congressman McHenry wrote a letter to U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) assistant administrator Jim Blair on February 4th, 2005, urging the allocation of TSA's resources to assure the opening of Delta Airlines flights on May 1st. Last winter, it was questionable whether TSA would be able to properly fund security measures necessary to reopen the airport. Legislation was passed after September 11th, 2001 mandating elevated security at America's international and regional airports, which resulted in increased costs to airlines and airports. Those additional costs, paired with the decrease in passengers after the 9/11 attacks, caused many carriers to suspend service to smaller airports, including Hickory Regional.
04.26.2005	Seventh and eighth graders from Cranberry Middle School and Lenoir Middle School visited the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) last week to receive a guided tour of the U.S. Capitol from his staff share: f t Seventh and eighth graders from Cranberry Middle School and Lenoir Middle School visited the office of Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) last week to receive a guided tour of the U.S. Capitol from his staff. Mr. Kenny Ward, a teacher at Cranberry Middle, and Mrs. Angie Woods, who teaches at Lenoir Middle, led their groups of students to Washington D.C. “It is a challenge to keep 125 people together, on time, and get them through security,” said Mrs. Woods when asked about organizing the tour to Washington. “Congressman McHenry was very accommodating, and his staff was great with our group.” McHenry staffers Joshua Hess, Monica Farrow, Cendy Gonzalez, Christopher Herndon, Casey Hastings, and Jon Causey were all involved in giving the two separate tours to the group of students. Cranberry Middle’s group of 50 students, teachers, and parents viewed the Capitol in the morning, and Lenoir Middle’s group of 125 toured the building in the afternoon. “I really liked seeing the Capitol’s rotunda,” said Taylor Parsons, and eighth grader from Lenoir Middle. “Being in the Congressman’s office was so much fun, especially getting behind his desk and taking pictures.” John Ellis, an eighth grader from Cranberry Middle, said “it was a really fun tour. I would love to work in politics so I can pass bills.” “Congressman McHenry attended my church, Lenoir Community Church, two weeks ago,” Kaytie Murray, from Lenoir Middle, said. “He was so nice; I am so glad I was able to come to Washington D.C. and see the Capitol with his staff.” Tours like these are available by contacting Congressman McHenry’s office ahead of time at (202) 225-2576.
04.26.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear tonight on ABC’s World News Tonight with Peter Jennings to discuss the barrage of ethics complaints thrown by Democrats against Republicans in the U.S. House. The program will run at 6:30pm EST. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear tonight on ABC’s World News Tonight with Peter Jennings to discuss the barrage of ethics complaints thrown by Democrats against Republicans in the U.S. House. The program will run at 6:30pm EST. In recent months, House Democrat Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.-8) has urged the House Ethics Committee to investigate House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-TX-22) over alleged irregularities in his congressional travel records. It has come to light over the past week that House Democrats are guilty of more irregularities. Congressman McHenry, along with Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA-8) have written three letters to Mrs. Pelosi, urging an end to double standards on the ethics controversy. “It seems to be an ethics problem when these irregularities involve Republicans, but it’s a simple oversight when it involves Democrats,” said Congressman McHenry. “This is a double standard, a first rate hypocrisy, and it must stop.”
04.25.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry acted on behalf of the conservative Republican Study Committee last week to recognize National Rifle Association (NRA) President Kayne Robinson for his excellent service in leading the organization over the last two years. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry acted on behalf of the conservative Republican Study Committee last week to recognize National Rifle Association (NRA) President Kayne Robinson for his excellent service in leading the organization over the last two years. McHenry flew to Houston, Texas to deliver the award to Mr. Robinson in front of over 3,000 guests at the annual NRA convention. The award was granted unanimously by the Republican Study Committee – an organization of conservative Republican members of Congress who pursue traditional, constitutional legislation on Capitol Hill. “Kayne Robinson has been a terrific advocate for America’s Second Amendment rights, and all of us here owe him a tremendous debt of gratitude,” said Mr. McHenry upon delivering the award. “Americans have an unalienable right to keep and bear firearms for their protection, and Kayne Robinson, through his commitment for gunowners’ rights and his awesome legislative skill, has made America a safer, stronger country. The Republican Study Committee, of which I am a proud member, recognizes Mr. Robinson for his excellence,” he continued. Kayne Robinson headed the National Rifle Association (NRA) for two years, and was the keynote speaker at Congressman McHenry’s inaugural party in Washington, DC last January. With nearly 4 million members, many lawmakers and other observers say the NRA is the most powerful and respected advocacy organizations in Washington.
04.22.2005	Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced the Congressional Art Contest for local high school students. Winners of the competition will have their artwork put on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol, where lawmakers, congressional staff, and thousands of visitors walk each day between the Capitol building and the House office buildings. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced the Congressional Art Contest for local high school students. Winners of the competition will have their artwork put on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol, where lawmakers, congressional staff, and thousands of visitors walk each day between the Capitol building and the House office buildings. The competition is open to high school students, as well as junior high school students whose school includes 7th through 12 grades in one building. Each student who enters the contest must reside in the Tenth Congressional District, which includes Mitchell, Avery, Caldwell, Burke, Catawba, Lincoln, Cleveland and parts of Rutherford, Iredell and Gaston counties. The winning entry for the 10th District will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol, and the winning artist will be invited to attend the ribbon cutting ceremony on 14 June 2005. “This contest is a great way for kids to participate in art, while learning about civic values at the same time,” said Congressman McHenry. “It’s an exciting opportunity, and I encourage all interested students in the Tenth District to submit their artwork for consideration.” The artwork must be two-dimensional only, can be no larger than 32x32 inches, no more than 4 inches in depth, and must arrive framed in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory District Office by May 20th, 2005. It must also be framed, and protected by Plexiglas or glass. The competition includes paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media projects, computer generated artwork and photography. An attached form must be signed by the teacher and the student to certify the originality of the art piece. Entries that are reproduced from an existing photo, painting, or any other work produced by another person will be disqualified. The final decision regarding suitability for the exhibition in the Capitol will be made by a panel of qualified persons chaired by the Architect of the Capitol. For complete rules on the competition, or with further questions, please Laurie Moody in Congressman McHenry’s Hickory District Office staff at 828-327-6100 or by e-mail laurie.moody@mail.house.gov.
04.21.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has introduced new legislation aimed to curb methamphetamines production and trade. The bill, H.R. 1616, would double the maximum jail time from 10 to 20 years for those convicted of producing or trafficking methamphetamines or other illegal drugs in the presence of children. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has introduced new legislation aimed to curb methamphetamines production and trade. The bill, H.R. 1616, would double the maximum jail time from 10 to 20 years for those convicted of producing or trafficking methamphetamines or other illegal drugs in the presence of children. The bill comes as the result of a February 23rd, 2005 meeting organized by Congressman McHenry in Lenoir, NC. McHenry, who is vice-chairman of the House Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice and Drug Policy, invited sheriffs from 7 western North Carolina counties, officials from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation (SBI), and various local narcotics officers to discuss solutions to the methamphetamines epidemic. “First and foremost, we must protect our children from illegal drugs,” said Congressman McHenry. “This bill is common sense approach advocated by local sheriffs and drug enforcement officials that will double the maximum penalties for anyone who produces or traffics methamphetamines in the presence of kids.” Congressman McHenry’s bill was immediately cosponsored by 12 members of Congress from all parts of the United States. Methamphetamines and the clandestine labs used in its production represent a growing problem in North Carolina. The Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy stated in 1998 that meth had become the United States’ primary drug threat. Since then, meth production has increased all over the country. The most innocent victims of the meth problem are children who are exposed to labs run out of their homes by parents, caretakers, or guardians. An on-going study initiated in 2003 indicates that meth and chemical contamination permeates every room of a home or structure where a meth lab is operating. Children exposed to meth chemicals are at an immediate risk of headaches, nausea and dizziness, and more chronic exposure may lead to cancer along with damage to the brain, liver, kidneys, spleen and immune system. In 2004 alone, over 2,700 children were found in methamphetamines labs seized by law enforcement officials – amounting to an astounding 34% presence in total seizures. ###
04.20.2005	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a U.S. Department of Education grant to the Hickory Metropolitan Higher Education Center (HMHEC) in the amount of $111,104. The grant will expand the educational programming available at the center during its third year of operation. share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a U.S. Department of Education grant to the Hickory Metropolitan Higher Education Center (HMHEC) in the amount of $111,104. The grant will expand the educational programming available at the center during its third year of operation. The Center was established in 2002 to promote economic development in the region by offering a broad range of classes in areas requested by the local community. The HMHEC is located in the east campus of the Catawba Valley Community College in Hickory. “This is a great opportunity for an organization with a great mission: to educate and train people for the modern American workforce,” said Congressman McHenry. “I congratulate Hickory Metropolitan Higher Ed. Center for receiving this grant, and I hope that money goes a long way toward educating folks in western North Carolina. I am a strong supporter of community colleges and worker training programs that equip our folks with the tools and skills necessary to compete in a national and global economy.” The money for HMHEC, which began its 3rd year of operation this year, was granted to fully staff its 12-classroom facility, and expand to a minimum of 1000 the number of adults enrolled annually in degree and non-degree credit programs. Achieving these goals will enable the program to offer a broad menu of educational programs to citizens in the region and aggressively market the program as a higher education center. “Western North Carolina faces a lot of challenges, but all are challenges we can overcome by making smart decisions and good planning,” continued McHenry. “We need to educate our citizens and create a world-class workforce that will draw companies far and wide to settle in the most beautiful part of a beautiful state. This kind of grant goes a long way toward achieving that goal.” ###
04.15.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will fly to Iowa today after a busy week on Capitol Hill, where he cast two important votes to repeal the Death Tax on Wednesday, and to reform the nation’s bankruptcy laws on Thursday. Both of the bills passed the U.S. House. share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will fly to Iowa today after a busy week on Capitol Hill, where he cast two important votes to repeal the Death Tax on Wednesday, and to reform the nation’s bankruptcy laws on Thursday. Both of the bills passed the U.S. House. The congressman flies to Iowa today as part of his duties as vice-chairman of the House Republican Public Affairs Team on Social Security. On Saturday, Congressman McHenry – who at 29 is the youngest member of the U.S. House – will discuss Social Security reform at a number of events in the Des Moines area with Generations Together, an organization dedicated to modernizing the Social Security system. That night, Congressman McHenry will address the Republican Party of Iowa’s Lincoln Day Dinner. Considered a “swing” state, support from Iowa politicians is considered crucial for Social Security reform to pass Congress. Back in Washington, Wednesday’s vote to repeal the Death Tax – the double-tax levied by the federal government on inheritances, which harms farmers and small business owners – passed by a vote of 272-162. Thursday’s vote to reform the nation’s bankruptcy laws was a bipartisan affair, passing by an overwhelming 302-126 margin. “The U.S. House did some good work this week,” said Congressman McHenry. “We axed the Death Tax, the most unfair type of double taxation. Folks work their whole lives and pay taxes on their income, on what they buy, on their gasoline, on their telephone, on their electric bill, on their medicine, on their Social Security benefits – then, when they die Uncle Same comes to take some more, in some cases 55%. We let the Death Tax die on Wednesday.” “We also reformed the nation’s bankruptcy laws, and made it harder for those who want to use bankruptcy as a scapegoat to avoid debts,” continued Congressman McHenry. “Bankruptcy is for those who need help, not those who want to shift costs to other hard-working Americans.” Congressman McHenry will return to Washington on Monday.
04.07.2005	Congressman McHenry Recommends Two Local Highschoolers for Congressional Page Program share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced that he would recommend Sarah Seufer of Newland and Russell Hester of Statesville for the Federal Page Program, an official educational program for select high school students to work at the U.S. Capitol. Pages are high school students hired by the House of Representatives to live, work, and study in Washington, D.C. Members of Congress must nominate all Page candidates, who, if selected, become employees of the House with duties consisting primarily of delivering correspondence, legislative material, and small packages within the Congressional complex. Pages prepare for House Floor sessions, take messages to and for members, while some monitor a telephone bank of incoming requests for Page service. Congressman McHenry recommended Sarah Seufer, a 17 year-old senior at Avery Higschool in Newland, and Russell “Lee” Hester, a 17 year old junior at Statesville Christian School, for the program. Seufer is ranked #1 in her class with a 4.0 GPA, and considers herself a “strong conservative Republican.” Russell “Lee” Hester, a junior at Statesville Christian School, has a weighted cumulative GPA of 3.7 and has been on the Varsity basketball, baseball, and cross country teams. “Young people bless us and this nation of ours,” said Congressman McHenry, “and it is my high honor to recommend Miss Seufer and Mr. Hester to the Congressional Page program. Competition for the few slots is fierce, but Miss Seufer and Mr. Hester represent Western North Carolina strongly. Few things are more honorable than when young people take initiative to work and serve in this kind of capacity,” he continued. Sixty-six Republican page spots will be offered for each of two summer sessions. With 233 Republican members of Congress, there can be up to 466 applicants. All final decisions coming from the office of Speaker of the House Denny Hastert (R-Ill.)
03.31.2005	Congressman McHenry’s Statement on Death of Terri Schaivo share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC-10) issued the following statement on Terri Schiavo, the disabled Florida woman whose feeding tube a Florida state court ordered removed two weeks ago, resulting in her starvation, dehydration, and eventual death this morning. “The Terri Schiavo case is a first rate tragedy,” said Congressman McHenry. “The greatest tragedy is of course personal and moral, and we pray today for both Mrs. Schiavo and her family, that they may at last find peace after a very difficult time. “But it is also a legal tragedy. In the last two weeks we saw Congress act in a bipartisan manner to give a helpless woman legal protection, and thus a second chance at life. Then we saw a state judge completely ignore a Congressional committee’s subpoena, and insult its intent. Finally, we saw a federal court not only reject, but deride the very law that Congress passed. “I pray for all parties in the Schiavo case, and especially Mrs. Schiavo herself. But as Americans we must learn from this and take a second look at the judiciary, and how we can stop judges from legislating from the bench.”
03.23.2005	Congressman McHenry Restates Need to Fix Social Security After New Trustees Report Shows System Going Bankrupt One Year Earlier than Expected share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) restated the need for Congress to fix the broken Social Security system, after a new Social Security Trustees report shows the system going bankrupt one year earlier than previously expected. According to the report, the trustees “do not believe the currently projected long run growth rates of Social Security and Medicare are sustainable under current financing arrangements.” This is because of the increasing number of Social Security recipients expected as the baby boomers retire. In 1950, there were 16 workers supporting every Social Security recipient through their payroll taxes. Currently there are only 3.3 and shortly there will be only two workers supporting every retiree. Meanwhile, as folks are living longer they are collecting benefits for longer periods of time. “The trustees report tells us what we have known for years: Social Security is broken and it needs to be fixed,” said Congressman McHenry, who is vice-chairman of the House Republican Conference’s Retirement Security Team. “For the sake of our children and grandchildren we need to reform the system to make sure that current and soon-to-be retirees receive the benefits they were promised. We also need to transform the system to allow younger workers invest a portion of their taxes into a nestegg of bonds and stocks, where the return is higher and safer than Social Security.” According to the report, Social Security “continues to fail our long-range test of close actuarial balance by a wide margin…Tax income will begin to fall short of outlays in 2017 and will be sufficient to finance only 74 percent of scheduled annual benefits by 2041, when the combined OASDI trust fund is projected to be exhausted.” Without reforms, a do-nothing approach would require huge tax increases or massive benefit cuts to maintain the system in 2041. “The message is clear: Social Security needs to be fixed and every day we wait is another day we spend digging a hole for ourselves,” continued McHenry. “Safe, personal, and optional accounts, invested by younger workers in bonds and stocks will outperform Social Security and lessen the long-term liability of the program. Personal accounts are an integral part of any efforts to reform the system.” Congressman McHenry has introduced legislation in Congress that states the problems facing the Social Security system and urges Congress to reform the program without raising taxes. The bill is H. RES. 168, and has 19 original cosponsors.
03.22.2005	Congressman McHenry Announces $661,000 Grant to U.S. Highway 321 share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a grant from the Federal Highway Administration in the amount of $661,333 to fund construction on U.S. Highway 321 in North Carolina’s 10th Congressional District. U.S. 321 is one of the main north-south corridors in Western North Carolina, stretching from Gastonia through Hickory to Avery County. The funding was originally authorized in last year’s Omnibus Appropriations bill. Due to complicated budgetary regulations, only 2/3 of the grant was delivered in this installment. The rest of the nearly $1 million grant will be delivered for the U.S. 321 project when Congress completes the new transportation bill this spring. Congressman McHenry looks forward to working with the Federal Highway Administration and Congressional leaders to make sure that all remaining funding for this project is provided in the most expedient manner. “The balance of the funding for the U.S. 321 project will come when the House and Senate finish deliberating this spring,” said Congressman McHenry. The U.S. House finished its transportation bill this winter, and will soon go to Conference with the U.S. Senate.
03.20.2005	Congressman McHenry Returns to Washington for Emergency Session of Congress; Will Vote to Keep Terri Schiavo Alive in 12:01am Monday Vote share: f t Congress was called back into session on Sunday, as lawmakers will debate and vote on a bill to save the life of disabled Florida woman Terri Schiavo, after a state judge there ordered that her feeding tube be removed. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10), who argued Friday on MSNBC that the judge be held in contempt of Congress, today flew from his home in Cherryville, North Carolina to Washington, DC to cast the vote. “Terri Schiavo breathes on her own. Her heart beats on its own. She laughs, she cries, she is alive, and we must defend her life,” said Congressman McHenry. “An out of control judge ruled that she must die, and this Congress has to make every effort to keep Mrs. Schiavo alive.” Mrs. Schiavo suffered brain damage in 1990 when her heart stopped because of a chemical imbalance. Her husband says she told him she would not want to be kept alive artificially. Her parents dispute that, and say her condition can improve. Circuit judge George W. Greer from Mrs. Schiavo’s hometown in Pinellas County, Florida, ruled that her feeding tube be removed on Friday, after which Mrs. Schiavo will die of starvation and dehydration. Mrs. Schiavo has since gone almost three days without nourishment. “This judge belligerently ignored multiple subpoenas from Congress, and I believe he should be held in contempt of Congress,” continued Mr. McHenry, a member of the House Government Reform Committee, which issued subpoenas on Friday to investigate certain aspects of the matter. “This is a matter of life and death, and an out-of-control judge and a husband who abandoned his wife should not be the ones who decide whether or not she should live. We will pass this legislation tonight to save Mrs. Schiavo.” Congressman McHenry will return to Hickory, North Carolina on Monday morning, after debate and votes in Congress that will last until the early hours of the day. He will be available for interviews upon return to North Carolina. For more information, please contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576 or by e-mail at jonathan.collegio@mail.house.gov.
03.18.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry to Discuss Terri Schiavo Case on MSNBC share: f t This evening, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear on MSNBC’s Countdown with Keith Olbermann at 8pm EST. Congressman McHenry will discuss the Terri Schiavo case. Mrs. Shiavo, a disabled Florida woman, is currently in a medical state where she is incapacitated but is not comatose. Her husband sought to have her feeding tubes removed, which would result in her starvation and death. A state judge ruled that the feeding tube would be removed today. For further information, contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576 or by e-mail at jonathan.collegio@mail.house.gov.
03.17.2005	U.S. Rep. Patrick McHenry named to NRCC Executive Committee share: f t Today, National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Tom Reynolds (NY-26) announced the selection of freshman U.S. Rep. Patrick McHenry (NC-10) to the NRCC’s Executive Committee for the 2006 election cycle. In this capacity, McHenry will chair the committee’s “Communications Message Squad” and will be instrumental in developing and implementing the Republican Party’s strategy to grow its majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. “We are pooling together all the essential ingredients for a successful 2006 election cycle, and are pleased to have Patrick McHenry on board with this effort and bringing his formidable leadership and political skills to help us achieve our goals,” said Reynolds. “During his recent campaign and tenure in Congress thus far, he has proven to be a valuable asset to North Carolina’s Tenth District, our conference and the American people. “With Patrick McHenry leading our election efforts, we are well on our way to a successful 2006,” added Reynolds.
03.17.2005	Congressman McHenry Announces Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers in Hickory, Newton and Granite Falls share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has been informed by the U.S. Department of Labor that all employees of Dunmore Furniture Company in Hickory, Newton, and Granite Falls, who lost their jobs on or after January 14, 2004 are certified for training and income assistance under the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Eligibility will extend to future job losses for company employees until February 23, 2007. To become certified for TAA assistance, the U.S. Department of Labor must determine that one of three criteria has been met. The three events that can trigger TAA eligibility are job losses caused by loss of business to foreign competitors, a shift of company operations to a country with which the U.S. has a free trade agreement, or a loss of business resulting from customer incurring TAA certified cut backs. Services for certified employees include up to 104 weeks of training in a new career field. Those who require remedial education in order to complete occupational training may be eligible for an additional 26 weeks of training. In addition, certified participants enrolled in training programs may be eligible for up to 104 weeks of income assistance. Details regarding TAA benefits and eligibility are available online at www.doleta.gov/tradeact/ . Local North Carolina Employment Security Commission offices are also a good source of comprehensive information about TAA benefits and other services available for dislocated workers. ESC is the best front line resource for helping individuals through the process of dealing with unemployment and finding new employment. “This certification will help ease the hardship faced by Dunmore employees who have faced sudden and unexpected job losses as a result of these plant closings,” said Congressman McHenry upon hearing about the assistance. The congressman encouraged all former Dunmore Furniture employees who lost their jobs or faced a reduction in work hours since January 14, 2004 to contact their local ESC office as soon as possible to determine if they are eligible for benefits. ESC makes great efforts to secure a full list of eligible workers whenever a TAA petition is certified. The agency then sends letters to those workers to notify them of their eligibility. Most affected Dunmore employees will probably receive a letter from ESC shortly, but anyone who does not receive a letter and suspects he or she may qualify for assistance would be wise to follow-up with ESC. Residents of the 10th Congressional District who need contact information for their nearest ESC office should contact Congressman McHenry’s office at 1-800-477-2576 or 828-327-6100. His staff can provide the appropriate contact information and assist with any other questions you may have regarding this or any other matter involving the federal government.
03.10.2005	Congressman McHenry Announces Two Sets of “Freedom” Books Awarded to Mooresville and Newton Libraries share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) announced a National Endowment of the Humanities (NEH) award to libraries in Mooresville and Newton of sets of freedom-based books. The NEH worked with the American Library Association (ALA), to award the sets of fifteen classic books to various public libraries, two of which happened to be in North Carolina’s Tenth Congressional District. All the books focus on the topic of “freedom.” “The NEH gets $152 million a year from taxpayers, and this is a pretty good way to spend it,” said Congressman McHenry. “Folks young and old in Mooresville and Newton will have a great chance to read some great literature with the theme of freedom – which is the ultimate theme for everything American.” The award comes as part of its “We the People” program, which is focused on getting folks to look more at their history as Americans. Each year, NEH will select books that share a theme important to the nation's heritage. For 2004-5, the theme is "freedom" and features the following books: Sam the Minuteman by Nathaniel Benchley The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses by Paul Goble Paul Revere's Ride by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow The Tale of Peter Rabbit by Beatrix Potter The House of Dies Drear by Virginia Hamilton Ben and Me by Robert Lawson To Be a Slave by Julius Lester The Complete Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. Lewis Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury Across Five Aprils by Irene Hunt The Witch of Blackbird Pond by Elizabeth George Speare Miracle at Philadelphia by Catherine Drinker Bowen My Antonia by Willa Cather Animal Farm and 1984 by George Orwell One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich by Alexander Solzhenitsyn
03.09.2005	Mitchell County Firefighters to Receive $149,220 Homeland Security Grant share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry today announced that Parkway Fire and Rescue of Spruce Pine, North Carolina will receive a $149,220 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The grant was part of DHS’s 2004 Assistance to Firefighters grant program, which awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. For the 2004 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $750 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. The Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) administers the program, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Secretary Tom Ridge today announced 230 grants to fire departments throughout the United States in the thirty-eighth round of the Fiscal Year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. 24 of the grants came to North Carolina.
03.04.2005	Congressman McHenry to Appear Tonight on Fox News Channel’s Hannity & Colmes, and WCNC-TV’s 6 News at 5 share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will appear on both national and North Carolina television this evening (Friday March 4th 2005). In a story at 5pm EST, Charlotte’s WCNC-6 will report on Congressman McHenry’s first two months in Washington, and at 9pm EST the congressman will be a guest on Fox News Channel’s Hannity & Colmes, where he will argue against giving convicted criminals the right to vote. (Times are subject to change.)
02.23.2005	Congressman McHenry holds conference on methamphetamines abuse share: f t HICKORY, NC – Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will host with the Lenoir sheriff’s department a meeting on Tuesday with seven district sheriffs, two U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) agents and representatives from North Carolina’s State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) to discuss the growing methamphetamines problem in Western North Carolina. Members of the media are invited to attend. McHenry, who was recently selected as vice-chairman of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice and Drug Policy, decided to host the meeting as a way to listen to local law enforcement’s suggestions on how the federal government can better fight methamphetamines trafficking and abuse. With several anti-meth bills in Congress, Mr. McHenry wants to hear which legislative approaches to stopping meth would be most helpful to local, state and federal law enforcement. “Meth is a growing problem in Western North Carolina that we’ve got to stop before it gets out of hand like it has in other parts of the country,” said McHenry. “This is a national problem, and we’re here to find local solutions. I have a special opportunity to help fight meth with this committee assignment – but it is also a big responsibility. We need to learn from local law enforcement if there’s anything we need to change at the federal level to better fight this problem.” By 2002, 12.4 million Americans over the age of 11 had tried meth at least once. In 2004, 3000 children had to be rescued during more than 15000 meth lab seizures nationwide. Reports and studies show that meth is well on its way to replacing crack/cocaine as the principal drug threat, and in rural counties where meth is growing fastest, it has already supplanted it. The conference will be held at 10am in the Caldwell County's Sheriff Office, at 2351 Morganton Blvd in Lenoir. Attending the conference will be: Sheriff Edward Gwyn of Avery County Sheriff Gary Clark of Caldwell County Sheriff Kenneth Fox of Mitchell County Sheriff Phillip Redmond of Iredell County Sheriff Raymond Hamrick of Cleveland County Sheriff Daniel Good of Rutherford County Sheriff Alan Cloninger of Gaston County Chief Bill Farley of the Gaston County Police Department Also attending will a number of narcotics officers from the various sheriffs offices, two federal DEA agents and North Carolina SBI agents. ###
02.22.2005	Congressman McHenry to Tour Hickory Airport, Discuss Reestablishment of Commercial Air Service share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will tour the Hickory Regional Airport with airport director Tim Deike and a U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) official on Wednesday, February 23rd at 9am. During the tour, the congressman will discuss the airport's successful effort to establish commercial air service to the region. The event is open to local media. Flights to and from Hickory Regional ended in 2002, but Delta Airlines has agreed to begin service to Hickory starting on May 1st, 2005. Federally-mandated security measures must be in place before commercial service can resume. Airport officials have been working with the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) in an attempt to secure the necessary funds for equipment and TSA security personnel by the May deadline. Congressman McHenry wrote a letter to TSA assistant administrator Jim Blair on February 4th, 2005, urging the allocation of TSA's resources to assure the opening of Delta Airlines flights on May 1st. “The opening of the Hickory Regional Airport to commercial flights is crucial to economic development in Western North Carolina,” said Congressman McHenry. “Hickory has been without service since 2002, which has caused added hardship to a region already in need of jobs and further economic development. Securing TSA services for Hickory Regional is one of my highest priorities.” Legislation was passed after September 11th, 2001 to bolster security at America's international and regional airports, which resulted in increased costs to airlines and airports. Those additional costs, paired with the decrease in passengers after the 9/11 attacks, caused many carriers to suspend service to smaller airports, including Hickory Regional. The congressman's letter urged TSA to make it a top priority to establish security services at Hickory Regional in time for Delta’s planned rollout in May. “The reestablishment of airline service is vital to the economic health of the 10th District of North Carolina, which I represent,” Congressman McHenry said. “Any delay in the timetable for renewing this service will be damaging."
02.22.2005	Congressman McHenry to Hold Conference in Lenoir with District Sheriffs, SBI and DEA Agents on Fighting Methamphetamines share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) will host with the Lenoir sheriff’s department a meeting on Tuesday with seven district sheriffs, two U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) agents and representatives from North Carolina’s State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) to discuss the growing methamphetamines problem in Western North Carolina. Members of the media are invited to attend. McHenry, who was recently selected as vice-chairman of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice and Drug Policy, decided to host the meeting as a way to listen to local law enforcement’s suggestions on how the federal government can better fight methamphetamines trafficking and abuse. With several anti-meth bills in Congress, Mr. McHenry wants to hear which legislative approaches to stopping meth would be most helpful to local, state and federal law enforcement. “Meth is a growing problem in Western North Carolina that we’ve got to stop before it gets out of hand like it has in other parts of the country,” said McHenry. “This is a national problem, and we’re here to find local solutions. I have a special opportunity to help fight meth with this committee assignment – but it is also a big responsibility. We need to learn from local law enforcement if there’s anything we need to change at the federal level to better fight this problem.” By 2002, 12.4 million Americans over the age of 11 had tried meth at least once. In 2004, 3000 children had to be rescued during more than 15000 meth lab seizures nationwide. Reports and studies show that meth is well on its way to replacing crack/cocaine as the principal drug threat, and in rural counties where meth is growing fastest, it has already supplanted it. The conference will be held at 10am in the Caldwell County's Sheriff Office, at 2351 Morganton Blvd in Lenoir. Attending the conference will be: Sheriff Edward Gwyn of Avery County Sheriff Gary Clark of Caldwell County Sheriff Kenneth Fox of Mitchell County Sheriff Phillip Redmond of Iredell County Sheriff Raymond Hamrick of Cleveland County Sheriff Daniel Good of Rutherford County Sheriff Alan Cloninger of Gaston County Chief Bill Farley of the Gaston County Police Department Also attending will a number of narcotics officers from the various sheriffs offices, two federal DEA agents and North Carolina SBI agents.
02.18.2005	EVENTS: Congressman McHenry Returns Home for District Work This Week and Next share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) returned to his district office in Hickory, North Carolina yesterday to begin a week of district work that will stretch through the last days of February. The congressman will meet with county commissioners in Burke, Cleveland, and Lincoln counties on Monday, Caldwell and Gaston Counties on Tuesday, and Rutherford, Mitchell, and Avery counties on Wednesday. The Congressman will also tour Hickory Airport on Wednesday, and meet with high school and elementary students on Monday, Tuesday and Friday. Congressman McHenry has also organized a meeting in Lenoir on Thursday to discuss the methamphetamines problem with sheriffs from seven district counties, SBI agents, and two agents from the United States Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). All of these meetings and events are open to media. For more information, please contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576 or by e-mail at jonathan.collegio@mail.house.gov.
02.17.2005	Congressman McHenry Meets Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Applauds His Promotion of Personal Accounts for Social Security share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today applauded Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan for advocating personal retirement accounts as a means of fixing the nation’s Social Security System and making it solvent for generations to come. “Social Security faces a serious crisis, and it has to be fixed,” said Congressman McHenry. “No reforms proposed will affect current retirees or those soon to retire. But I am greatly encouraged that we have allies like Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan as we move toward personal savings accounts as a component of Social Security.” Congressman McHenry spoke with Mr. Greenspan today at a meeting of the House Financial Services Committee. Greenspan, who heads the Federal Reserve system which serves as America’s central bank, told the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday that he supported personal accounts. “When you have assets which you own, which you can bequeath to your children and which have your name on it, I think that's a highly desirable thing,” said chairman Greenspan, “because you give wealth basically to people in lower- and middle-income groups who have not had it before.” Social Security faces a massive funding crisis. When the program was created, there were 16 workers supporting every retiree. There are now 3 workers supporting every Social Security recipient, and as the baby boomer generation retires, that number will drop to only two workers supporting every retiree. This means that in 2018, the federal government will begin receiving less money in Social Security taxes than it pays out in benefits. Without fixing the system to include personal savings accounts, either massive tax hikes or benefit cuts would be required to maintain the program. Chairman Greenspan also told the panel, "If you're going to move to private accounts, which I approve of, I think you have to do it in a cautious, gradual way." Congressman McHenry agreed. “No one is advocating any kind of rash solution. We are looking at ways to fix Social Security by giving younger workers who pay into the system the opportunity to build a nest egg that they can pass on to their children and grandchildren. We want a solution that will maintain my grandmother’s benefits now, while keeping the program solvent for my grandchildren,” he continued.
02.14.2005	Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC-10) joined the growing legions of congressional support for hunters and anglers by becoming a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus last week. An avid outdoorsman, Congressman McHenry will be working for Western North Carolina’s thousands of sportsmen to defeat proposals that would threaten these traditions, and promote policy that improves hunting and fishing and the conservation of our fish and wildlife resources. share: f t Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC-10) joined the growing legions of congressional support for hunters and anglers by becoming a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus last week. An avid outdoorsman, Congressman McHenry will be working for Western North Carolina’s thousands of sportsmen to defeat proposals that would threaten these traditions, and promote policy that improves hunting and fishing and the conservation of our fish and wildlife resources. “Sportsmen have played a critical role in protecting North Carolina’s natural resources, have been strong defenders of our Second Amendment rights, and have always had a significant impact on North Carolina’s economy,” said Congressman McHenry. “By joining the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, I will be serving the sportsmen in my district and all those who want to ensure we always have places and opportunities to hunt and fish.” The Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus is a bi-partisan group of allies for sportsmen in Congress. Established in 1989, the Caucus works to protect the interests of America’s hunters, anglers, and trappers in the United States Senate and House of Representatives. There are currently 314 members of the Caucus, making it the largest issue-based caucus on Capitol Hill. ###
02.09.2005	Congressman McHenry Chosen as Vice-Chairman of House Republicans’ Social Security Team share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) today was elected by his Republican peers to be the vice-chairman of a special public affairs team dedicated to fixing the problems facing Social Security. The House Republican Conference chose a team of 18 lawmakers to take the lead on reforming Social Security. Congresswoman Anne Northup (R-KY) will chair the group. “Social Security is safe for today’s seniors, but it must be fixed for our children and grandchildren,” said Congressman McHenry. “In the 1950s, there were approximately sixteen workers paying in to the system for every one beneficiary. Today there are three, and eventually, there will be only two workers to support each person on Social Security. We need to fix the problems sooner rather than later,” he continued. McHenry, who is 29 and the youngest member of Congress, speaks to the issue from a unique perspective, as he will reach retirement age in 2042 – the year Social Security becomes officially insolvent. “Every day Congress sits on its hands and pretends this problem does not exist is a day wasted,” he continued. “By 2042, when workers in their mid-20s begin to retire, the system will be bankrupt – unless we act now to save it.” Congressman McHenry currently serves on both the House Budget Committee and House Financial Services Committee, both of which will play key roles in reshaping the Social Security system.
02.08.2005	Congressman McHenry Statement to Budget Committee, White House Budget Director share: f t Below is the opening statement delivered by U.S. Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) to the House Budget Committee this afternoon. White House Budget Director Joshua Bolton briefed the committee this morning and afternoon on President Bush’s budget proposal. The President’s $2.5 trillion budget, introduced on Monday, calls for increases in national and homeland security spending, while holding down spending in other parts of the federal government. The budget proposal serves as a model for the Senate and House as they generate their own proposals. REP MCHENRY: “Thank you Mr. Chairman and I appreciate the opportunity to serve with you on the Budget Committee and look forward to a productive year. Mr. Bolton I appreciate you being here today and I am sure you will be able to shed some light on the President’s proposal and hopefully offer some additional insights on where we might continue the President’s effort to reduce spending and shrink the deficit. First, I applaud the President for showing true leadership and identifying some 150 federal programs that are duplicative or ineffective. These programs will save an estimated $20 billion in FY 2006 and reforms of mandatory programs could save up to $137 billion over the next 10 years. The time has certainly come to restore fiscal discipline for the federal government and ensure that we leave our children and grandchildren a society based on opportunity and personal responsibility. The President has given us a blueprint for spending that increases funding of national and homeland security. Having worked at the Department of Labor, I am especially looking forward to learning more about the new worker retraining initiatives that are crucial to my constituents in the 10th District of North Carolina. I will fully support President Bush as he resists the calls from some circles to increase taxes. The President correctly recognizes that increasing taxes will only slow current economic expansion and further burden hard working Americans. The reduction in non-defense, non-homeland security discretionary spending should now be followed by fiscal restraint in the growth of mandatory spending. Social Security and other programs must be reformed before the unfunded liabilities eat away at the economic security and opportunity of future generations. Chairman Nussle, I hope the Committee will show similar leadership and have substantive discussions on the President’s budget and look for ways to reduce the size of the federal government without resorting to scare tactics that only distort the facts. The current deficit and looming crisis of Social Security demand that we take action and present reasonable and responsible budgets. Thank you again Mr. Chairman and I look forward to working with you and the Committee in the next two months to pass a budget that provides the necessary federal resources without wasting the taxpayer’s hard earned money.”
02.07.2005	Congressman McHenry Statement on President’s Budget Plan share: f t President George W. Bush delivered his budget for the federal government to the U.S. Capitol today, where lawmakers will review the plan and come up with their own budget guidelines by March. The budget broadly plans to increase national defense and homeland security spending by 5% and 7%, respectively, while holding down spending in other areas of the federal government. Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10), who serves as newly-appointed member of the House Budget Committee, called the President’s plan “a bold move,” and added that it was time for Congress to work with the President to put the federal government’s books in order. “President Bush has his priorities right. He has proposed a budget that will cut waste while funding national defense and homeland security, our two greatest priorities,” said Congressman McHenry. “By holding down spending, budgets like this open the door to the creation of high-paying jobs and more home ownership through lower interest rates.” Each year, the President proposes a budget and submits it to Congress for consideration. The House and Senate use the President’s budget as a model to create their own budgets. Then in a House and Senate conference, the two houses of Congress agree on their own benchmarks for federal government spending over the year. Tomorrow, the president’s budget director, Joshua Bolton, will introduce the budget and answer questions from the House Budget Committee. “Now it’s Congress’s turn to review the President’s plan, and to use it as a blueprint for our own plan that will hold back spending while funding our priorities,” continued Mr. McHenry. “We need to sit down and focus on ways to trim the fat out of the government while funding our priorities for Western North Carolina like worker education, retraining, and national security – and never raising taxes. This is what we were elected to do.” For more information, or to schedule an interview, please contact Jonathan Collegio at (202) 225-2576 or by e-mail at jonathan.collegio@mail.house.gov.
01.31.2005	Trade Adjustment Assistance Available for Displaced Workers in Western North Carolina share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) has been informed by the U.S. Department of Labor that employees of Regency Home Fashions, Inc. in Conover, and Spectrum Textured Yarns of Hickory, are certified for training and income assistance under the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. This eligibility extends to Regency employees in positions eliminated between 11 November 2003 and 11 November 2005, and Spectrum employees between 19 November 2003 and 19 November 2005. To become certified for TAA assistance, the U.S. Department of Labor must determine that one of its three criteria has been met: job losses caused by loss of business to foreign competitors, a shift of company operations to a country with which the U.S. has a free trade agreement, or a loss of business resulting from customer incurring TAA certified cut backs. Congressman McHenry stated: “Losing work when a company leaves town can be devastating to families, communities and entire regions. But I was pleased to learn that folks in Conover and Hickory who are impacted by job cuts at Regency Home Fashions and Spectrum Textured Yarns will have access to TAA protections. By focusing on training, TAA offers an opportunity for workers to not only find new employment, but to seek better paying jobs. At the same time, the better trained and more diversified workforce that results from this training makes Western North Carolina more attractive to new businesses.” McHenry continued: “I encourage any employee who believes he or she may be eligible for assistance based on this certification to contact their local North Carolina Employment Security Commission (ESC) office as soon as possible. Eligible employees should receive written notification and instructions from ESC in the near future; however, early contact with ESC is an important step in determining what services are available, and ensuring that those services are timely and effective.” Services for certified employees include up to 104 weeks of training in a new career field. Individuals who require remedial education in order to complete occupational training may be eligible for an additional 26 weeks of training. In addition, certified participants who enroll in training programs may be eligible for up to 104 weeks of income assistance. Additional details regarding TAA benefits and eligibility are available online at www.doleta.gov/tradeact/. However, local ESC offices are the best source for comprehensive information about TAA benefits and other services available for dislocated workers. ESC is the best resource for helping individuals through the process of dealing with unemployment and finding new employment. Residents of the 10th Congressional District who need contact information for their nearest ESC office should contact Congressman McHenry’s office at 1-800-477-2576 or 828-327-6100. His staff can provide the appropriate contact information and assist with any other questions you may have regarding this or any other matter involving the federal government.
01.24.2005	Congressman McHenry Reprimands Roe v. Wade on Anniversary of Supreme Court Decision; Calls for an End to Legislating from the Bench share: f t North Carolina Congressman Patrick T. McHenry (R) today marked the 32nd anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s Roe versus Wade by declaring that Congress should reconsider the way activist judges have used their power to legislate from the bench. Before Roe v. Wade, abortion was legal in only New York and California. But the infamous 1973 decision nullified the laws of 48 states and made abortion legal everywhere in America. Mr. McHenry released the following statement on the decision: “It is with deep sadness that today marks thirty-two years of legalized abortion in America. Millions upon millions of unborn children’s lives have been snuffed out due to the whims of a 1973 court, packed with liberal judges, who legislated their radical values from the bench. “No where in the U.S. Constitution is there written a right to abortion. No where in the U.S. Constitution is there a right to ‘privacy’ – upon which those judges based their decision. “The Roe versus Wade decision symbolizes a low point in American jurisprudence. It marks a point when folks who couldn’t find legislative support for their ideas went to the courts to pass their radical laws for them. “As members of Congress, we must reconsider the balance between the courts and the Congress – between the judicial and legislative branches – to ensure that judges do not usurp the power of Congress to legislate their values from the bench. “Legislation is left up to the Congress for a reason: Congressmen and women are accountable to the folks who put them there, and those people are voters. If courts continue to try passing laws, perhaps they too should be accountable to voters through term limits, or by Congress redrawing the lines of lower courts’ jurisdiction. These are all things we must seriously consider in this Congress. “Today marks the anniversary of a sad day in America. But we can look forward with hope because the Constitution allows us to constantly change and reform. The Congress has power to review the way radical courts exceed their power by legalizing abortion and gay marriage, while forbidding ‘under God’ in the Pledge of Allegiance.”
01.07.2005	Congressman McHenry Nominated to Financial Services Committee share: f t Congressman Patrick McHenry’s (R-NC-10) drive to win membership on the House Financial Services Committee succeeded, as today he will be named a member of the sought-after committee by the House Republican Conference. The committee drafts and reviews all federal legislation involving the banking and financial services industry, including insurance companies, banks, credit unions, as well as legislation that pertains to monetary policy, investment, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All legislation involving the regulation of the industry must first pass the committee before being considered by the full U.S. House. One of the most prestigious committees in Congress, House Financial Services is sought after by freshman and veteran congressman alike. Rep. McHenry first announced that he was seeking out membership to the committee in a series of articles written after his election to Congress last November. "With the banking industry centered in North Carolina and so near to the folks in my congressional district, it made sense to seek out membership on the Financial Services Committee – even though everyone knew it would be difficult to obtain the appointment,” said Congressman McHenry. “The financial services industry supplies thousands of jobs across Western North Carolina. The industry can grow to provide new, well-paying jobs – from call centers, to investing, to data management – across the 10th congressional district, from the Blue Ridge Mountains to Catawba Valley. Our state is the bread and butter of the southern banking industry, and I will serve on this committee with all of my focus and energy,” he continued. Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL) commented: "Patrick will be a strong voice for free enterprise and economic growth. I know he will work hard and because of that, his constituents in North Carolina will benefit greatly." Congressman McHenry will be one of approximately 60 Republican members on the committee. The committee ranks with the Ways and Means Committee, which drafts tax law, the Appropriations Committee, which spends federal dollars, and the Commerce and Energy committee, which regulates business and industry, as among the most powerful committees in Congress. “Low taxes, low regulations and free enterprise allow Americans and our entrepreneurial spirit to shine,” continued Mr. McHenry. “I am an economic conservative, and I will fight for these ideas in this committee and every day in Congress.” Mr. McHenry will also be appointed to serve on the House Committee on Government Reform, the central investigative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. It has jurisdiction to investigate any federal program and any matter with federal policy implications.
01.05.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry Names Washington, DC Staff share: f t Today, Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10) named the staff for his Washington, DC office. His staff will work full time in the congressman’s Capitol Hill office in the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, DC. In December, the congressman announced his chief of staff, Dee Stewart of Raleigh, North Carolina. Mr. Stewart previously served as general consultant to Mr. McHenry’s congressional campaign. Further staff include: Legislative Director Jon Causey: A native of North Carolina, Mr. Causey previously worked for North Carolina Congressman Robin Hayes (R-NC-8), former U.S. Sen. Jesse Helms (R), and Congressman Howard Coble (R-NC-6). Mr. Causey earned his master’s degree from Appalachian State University in 1998, and his bachelor’s from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Communications Director Jonathan Collegio: Before working on a congressional campaign in the 2004 electoral cycle, Mr. Collegio previously served as spokesman for Americans for Tax Reform in Washington, DC, produced news for News 12 New Jersey, and worked on the editorial page of USA Today. Collegio earned his master’s degree from Rutgers University, and his bachelor’s from the University of Oregon, where he graduated phi beta kappa. Legislative staff includes legislative assistant Matthew A. Hamilton, a graduate of Belmont Abbey College, who worked on the McHenry for Congress campaign; and legislative correspondent Monica Farrow, an Auburn University graduate and McHenry for Congress staffer who previously served as field representative for the College Republican National Committee and worked on the Bobby Jindal for Governor race in Louisiana. Administrative staff include scheduler Cendy Gonzalez, a University of Minnesota-Morris graduate and McHenry for Congress staffer, and staff assistant Joshua Hess, who graduated summa cum laude from West Virginia University and previously interned at Washington, DC’s Heritage Foundation. “The key to achieving any serious goals on Capitol Hill is having a good team in place,” said Congressman McHenry, “and we have assembled one of the best staffs in Congress. I hope that folks from North Carolina will contact our office whenever they need assistance with the federal government,” he continued. Congressman McHenry’s Washington, DC office address is: Congressman Patrick McHenry 224 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Constituents may reach the congressman’s office by phone at (202) 225-2576.
01.04.2005	Congressman Patrick McHenry Sworn in to Represent North Carolina's Tenth District share: f t Earlier this afternoon, Republican U.S. Representative Patrick McHenry was sworn in as only the third congressman to serve North Carolina’s 10th congressional district in the past forty years. Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert swore in all members of the U.S. House shortly after being reelected Speaker, a post he has held since 1999. Congressman McHenry, of Cherryville, won election on November 2nd, 2004. The congressman is 29 and the youngest member of the 109th Congress. He will maintain his residence in the Tenth District and commute to Washington each week. “I am extremely humbled and honored to represent the people of North Carolina’s Tenth District,” said Congressman McHenry. “I view this as a solemn obligation to my constituents in western North Carolina, and I am ready to get to work.” Congressman McHenry replaces Cass Ballenger, who represented North Carolina’s Tenth Congressional District for eighteen years. McHenry and his staff spent the last two days setting up the Congressman’s Washington, DC office in the Cannon House Office Building. The congressman will also open three constituent service offices in the district, which stretches from the Blue Ridge Mountains to the South Carolina border. The main district office will be maintained in Hickory with regional officers in Shelby and Spruce Pine. As the new Congressman from the district, McHenry invited his constituents to become acquainted with his staff in the district, as well as Washington, DC offices. “The first duty of a member of Congress is to represent the people of his district,” McHenry stated. “I am committed to having the best constituent service staff in North Carolina, and I hope to meet as many constituents as I can in the coming months and years.”
