12.01.2018	“President Bush will be missed, for his leadership, good humor and his many years of public and military service. The last time he visited Morris County was to visit my ailing predecessor, Congressman Dean Gallo, see my late father, Peter, and to headline a Republican lunch.” #####
10.25.2018	PICATINNY, NEW JERSEY– Today, U.S. Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, welcomed the Secretary of the Army, Mark Esper, to Picatinny Arsenal. In a letter earlier this year, Rep. Frelinghuysen invited Secretary Esper to visit to gain a better understanding of how this vital installation contributes to the strategic readiness of the Army as well as the Navy, Marines, and our Special Forces. “I have been privileged to represent the men and women of Picatinny Arsenal – and this great installation itself – for almost 24 years in Congress,” Rep. Frelinghuysen said. “Every time I pass through the Cannon Gates I learn about another technological marvel the scientists, engineers and technicians here discovered and fielded to our warfighters to ensure we maintain our advantage against our adversaries on the battlefield. I am pleased Secretary Esper was able to see, firsthand, this tremendous institution and its critically important work.” During the visit, Secretary Esper was escorted by Rep. Frelinghuysen, Brigadier General Alfred Abramson, Commander Picatinny Arsenal and PEO Ammunition and Mr. John Hedderich, Director US Army Armament Research and Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC). They received presentations on a sampling of technologies, including several lethality efforts that Picatinny develops and manages for the Department of Defense. The visit was highlighted by Secretary Esper and Rep. Frelinghuysen addressing the entire Picatinny workforce. Picatinny is designated the Joint Center of Excellence for Guns and Ammunition, providing products and services to all branches of the U.S. military. The Arsenal provides 90 percent of the Army's lethality and also works closely with the Navy, Marines, Air Force, our special operations community and the armed forces of partner nations. The Secretary of the Army has ultimate responsibility for all matters relating to the United States Army and is responsible for recruiting, training and equipping soldiers to provide forces to support America's national defense strategy. Pictured: Brigadier General Alfred Abramson, Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, Secretary of the Army Mark Esper ####
10.24.2018	"I was horrified to hear the reports of a viral outbreak affecting children at the pediatric nursing home in Haskell. I have talked to Wanaque Mayor Daniel Mahler and assured him of my commitment to making sure federal resources needed by the New Jersey State Health Department to address this situation are made available.”
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives gave bipartisan approval to the Conference Report to H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense, and the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019. This Conference Report, introduced by Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, includes funding for the Departments of Defense (DOD), Labor (DOL), Health and Human Services (HHS) and Education (DOE), as well as, a number of additional agencies. The House passed the measure by a vote of 361 to 61, sending the bill to the President’s desk. “This legislation fully supports our warfighters and their families, and continues our efforts to rebuild our Armed Forces. When this bill is signed into law, it will mark the first time in over 20 YEARS that the Department of Defense will have its full yearly appropriation prior to the end of the fiscal year. In addition, the legislation funds critical Health and Human Services (HHS) programs that will protect and save lives both now and in the future. The bill includes investments in vital National Institutes of Health (NIH) research to cure diseases, job training, college preparation, special education, combatting opioid abuse, and protections against pandemics and bio-threats,” said Frelinghuysen. This package also includes a short-term “Continuing Resolution (CR),” which provides continued funding to keep the federal government operating through December 7 until all yearly Appropriations funding bills can be signed into law. Notably, with the completion of this package, Congress will have approved $1 trillion or 75% of all annual discretionary funding prior to the end of the fiscal year – a critical step in returning to the regular federal funding process, and an achievement that has not occurred in twenty-two years. The Conference Report includes many provisions that are important to New Jersey residents! Department of Defense The legislation boosts funding for our Armed Forces to $674.4 billion, an increase of $17.0 billion above the FY 2018 enacted level. The bill also provides $67.9 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. More specifically, the legislation: Includes $143.2 billion for Military Personnel and Pay to provide for 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 National Guard and Reserve troops, fully funding the requested 16,400 additional personnel, and the 2.6 percent pay raise. Contains new funding to allow scientists, engineers and technicians at Picatinny Arsenal, the DoD Joint Center of Excellence for Armaments, to accelerate their urgent work to ensure that our weapons systems overmatch those of our adversaries, including over $300 million in funding to the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) which assists Army, Navy and Special Operations programs. Provides $148 billion for equipment procurement, including $2.3 billion to procure another 15 KC-46 Pegasus aircraft – the new airborne tanker that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, beginning in FY 2021. Provides an additional $10 million to allow the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) to hasten their critical work of recovering the remains of military personnel lost in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War and on the Korean Peninsula. Maintains an increased special account used by the National Guard and Reserve to procure equipment to maintain readiness in key weapon systems and help close equipment interoperability gaps with the active Army and Air Force. The National Guard Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA) is funded at $1.3 billion, up significantly from two years ago. Supports Israel by providing $300 million for U.S.-Israel missile defense cooperation and $47 million for U.S.-Israel counter-tunnel cooperation. Increases funding formilitary readiness programs that ensure our troops are prepared for their missions by providing $243 billion, an increase of $5.4 billion for more training, maintenance, and base operations. Replenishes our military might by providing $148 billion for equipment procurement, including 13 Navy ships (including 2 Virginia-class submarines), 93 F-35 aircraft, 24 F/A/-18E/F Super Hornets, 18 C-130J aircraft, 58 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters, 66 AH-64 Apache helicopters, 10 P-8A Poseidon aircraft and 13 V-22 aircraft. Includes $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. All of these funding levels exceed the President’s budget request. Labor-Health and Human Services The bill provides $178 billion in discretionary funding for programs within the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and other related agencies. The bill targets investments in medical research, public health, biodefense, education, and important activities that help promote job readiness. More specifically, the legislation: Increases National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding by $2 billion to a total of $39.1 billion, supporting research at universities throughout New Jersey, such as 2018 grantees St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, Atlantic Health System in Morristown, Kessler Foundation in West Orange, and Montclair State University. The bill contains a targeted increase of $100 million at NIH to support the Cancer “Moonshot” which increases support for New Jersey’s only National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey and provides: $2.34 billion, a $425 million increase, for Alzheimer’s disease research. $429 million, a $29 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative. $376 million, an $86 million increase, for the All of Us research initiative, a historic effort to gather data on over 1 million people. $140 million, an increase of $40 million, for research to develop a universal influenza vaccine. $550 million, an increase of $37 million, for research on Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria. $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative. Directs historic levels of funding, over $6.6 billion to programs across the bill to fight the opioid abuse crisis, felt by many communities throughout New Jersey. Provides $10.1 billion for Head Start, a $200 million increase, supporting local Head Start programs. Increases the maximum “year round” Pell Grant award by $100 to $6,195 to assist students attending colleges and universities throughout our state. Supports senior nutrition programs by providing $907 million, of which $251 million is for Meals on Wheels. Contains $1.5 billion for Community Health Centers. These health centers, such as the Zufall Health Centers in Dover, Morristown, West Orange, Flemington, Hackettstown, Newton, Somerville, provide care to underserved communities in every county of New Jersey including Essex, Morris, Passaic, and Sussex. Includes $3.7 billion forLow Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This vital program helps low income families afford heating and energy services. The President's budget sought to eliminate this program. Provides a total of $12.1 billion in discretionary appropriations for the Department of Labor (DOL), supporting robust funding for job training programs and funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies. Contains $300 million for Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS), which is $5 million above FY 2018 level. This includes $50 million for the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program and $3.5 million for a new initiative to connect transitioning service members to apprenticeship opportunities. Supports first-generation college students prepare for, enter, and complete college by increasing funding to TRIO and GEAR UP programs by $50 million and $10 million, respectively, bringing TRIO programs to a total of $1.06 billion and GEAR UP to a total of $360 million. Supports special education by including $12.4 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of nearly $87 million, to ensure students with disabilities have access to free and appropriate public education Includes $1.9 billion for Career, Technical and Adult Education programs, an increase of nearly $95 million, to prepare our workforce for high-skilled and high-demand jobs. #####
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) led a visit to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with members of the national Alzheimer’s Association. He was accompanied by a number of New Jersey residents, including, Robyn Kohn-Tenner of Wayne and Randy Lerner of Livingston. The group had the opportunity to visit the world class research facilities in Bethesda, MD and meet face to face with the individuals leading the cutting edge Alzheimer’s research including Dr. Richard Hodes, Director of the National Institute on Aging, and Dr. Walter Koroshetz, Director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and those conducting clinical trials and genetic research. “Today’s visit allowed New Jersey families, who face the challenges of Alzheimer’s, to share their stories with the experts at the NIH and see, firsthand, their groundbreaking work. With 5 million people suffering from Alzheimer’s, it is vital that the NIH continues this research to find treatments, and ultimately a cure for this disease which has devastated so many families. As a member of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, I have long been a proponent of funding for Alzheimer’s research conducted at the NIH,” said Frelinghuysen. This week, the House of Representatives is slated to consider the Conference Report to H.R. 6157 , the Department of Defense, and the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, introduced by Congressman Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. This legislation includes $2.3 billion for Alzheimer’s disease research at the NIH, which is an increase of $425 million above FY18 and builds upon the $400 million increase included in FY18. (Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen with New Jersey members of the Alzheimer’s Association, Dr. Richard Hodes, Director of the National Institute on Aging, and Dr. Walter Koroshetz, Director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) #####
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives gave bipartisan approval to Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen’s three-bill Appropriations “minibus” funding bill. The House approved the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5895, by a vote of 377 to 20, sending the measure to the President’s desk. Included in the package is funding for the Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019. “These key funding bills provide funding for some of the most important federal responsibilities, including national defense, care of our veterans, key infrastructure improvements and scientific discovery,” said Frelinghuysen. This marks the first time in more than 10 years that Congress has sent more than one Appropriations bill to the President’s desk prior to the end of the fiscal year, representing a significant effort championed by Congressman Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, to return to “regular order”. The Conference Report includes many provisions that are important to New Jersey: Military Construction/Veterans Affairs: The FY 2019 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations section of the legislation includes a total of $98.1 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $5.3 billion above FY18, to support care and benefits our veterans earned and provides resources for our service members and their families. Specifically, the legislation: Includes the highest dollar level ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs, $86.5 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $5 billion from FY 2018. Provides $72.3 billion to support VA medical care for 7 million patients, including the VA Medical Centers at Lyons and East Orange and the Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) in Morris Township and Newton. Supports VA Homeless Assistance Programs by providing $1.8 billion, an increase of $60 million from FY 2018 to support organizations likeCommunity Hope in Parsippany, who serve thousands of homeless and at-risk veterans in New Jersey. Funds new construction at New Jersey’s largest military bases, Picatinny Arsenal and Joint Base McGuire Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL). Specifically, $41 million is provided to build a “Munitions Disassembly Complex” at Picatinny and $10.2 million is provided to replace a “Hot Cargo Hydrant System” at JMBDL. Energy and Water Development: The FY 2019 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations portion of this bill totals $44.6 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion above FY18, providing vital funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, and Department of Energy (DOE) programs including research conducted in New Jersey. Specifically, the legislation: Includes $7 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, an increase of $172 million above FY18, which supports flood prevention and mitigation efforts in our state, and keeps our local port, the New York-New Jersey harbor, open for business. Requires the Army Corps to update Congress regularly on its flood prevention efforts along the Passaic River Basin Mainstem, the Peckman River and the Rahway River. Continuing this work is essential for towns across New Jersey, some of which have very recently experienced devastating flooding. Invests $2 billion to reduce flood and storm damage across the nation including $5 million for construction of the Green Brook Sub-Basin flood control project and $668,000 for monitoring of the Passaic River Flood Warning System. Provides $6.6 billion within the Department of Energy for science research, an increase of $325 million above FY18 to support basic and advanced energy research to promote our energy future and reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil. Funds fusion energy science at $564 million, an increase of $32 million above FY18 and $224 million above the President’s request. This funding supports the work of New Jersey’s Princeton Plasma Physics Lab. Invests in protecting our nation’s electric grid from cyber-attacks by providing $120 million, an increase of $24 million above FY18, to strengthen grid security. Legislative Branch: The FY 2019 Legislative Branch Appropriations division provides $4.8 billion in funding for the operations of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Specifically, the legislation: Includes $456 million for the Capitol Police, an increase of $30 million, to enhance the safety and security of the Capitol Complex for the thousands of guests who visit every day. Dedicates funding for paid internships (up to $20,000 per Member office), providing greater opportunities to young people who wish to serve our nation. Supports the Library of Congress, the world’s largest library, by providing $696 million in funding and includes $2.4 million for the Veterans History Project. #####
09.11.2018	"Today, we mark the 17th Anniversary of the September 11th Terrorist Attacks. "On that fateful morning, in less than two hours, we lost 3,000 people, over 700 of them from New Jersey alone and over 100 from the 11thCongressional District. "I stand with every American to pay tribute to those who perished and the first responders on that tragic day. "We must also recognize our police, EMS and fire personnel from many New Jersey towns who responded to the attacks, saving countless lives and who continue to put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe. "We must also thank the members of our Armed Forces and Intelligence Community, all volunteers, who continue to serve our nation on battlefields across the world and sacrifice so much to protect our nation. "Today, we recommit ourselves to the notion that we will never forget September 11, 2001." ####
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee has been advised of three important awards from the Department of Justice (DOJ), Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) to institutions in New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District. Specifically, Jersey Battered Women’s Service (JBWS) received $499,818 through the OVW’s Improving the Criminal Justice Response Program to support the Morris Family Justice Center (MFJC). Located at the Morris County Court House, the Center provides the services a survivor of domestic violence, dating abuse and sexual assault needs in one place—counseling, protection, legal and immigration assistance, children’s services, and more. Further, the OVW has awarded $299,999 to Caldwell University and $299,238 to William Paterson University through the Grants to Reduce Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking on Campus Program. This funding will support implementing comprehensive, coordinated responses to violent crimes on campus through partnerships with victim service providers and justice agencies. The funding for these awards was provided in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which was authored by Congressman Frelinghuysen and approved by Congress in March. The FY 2019 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill includes $493 million in funding for Violence Against Women Act programs which is $1 million above FY 2018 and an $8 million increase over the President’s budget request. The FY 2019 CJS bill was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on May 17. ####
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, was pleased to announce New Jersey Task Force One (NJ-TF1), the state’s Urban Search and Rescue Team, was awarded $1.15 million through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Urban Search and Rescue Response (USR) system. “The men and women of NJ-TF1, professionals and volunteers alike, put their lives on the line to respond to disasters in New Jersey and around the nation. Today’s funding is another critical step to enhance New Jersey’s security, providing the Task Force with more funding for training and equipment to ensure they remain at the ‘top of their game’ in the event of any disaster,” Frelinghuysen said. The award provided by FEMA is a result of NJ-TF1 receiving formal designation and becoming a member of the 28 team Urban Search and Rescue Response system in 2016. Since the September 11 Terrorist Attacks, Congressman Frelinghuysen led the charge for the Task Force to receive this critical federal designation through legislation and advocated on its behalf with Administration officials. “On September 11, 2001 NJ-TF1 was among the first search and rescue teams to reach Ground Zero. Prior to and since that fateful morning, the Task Force has served our state and nation with distinction, including providing lifesaving assistance to our state during Hurricane Sandy and multiple deployments to Texas and Florida last year to help those affected by the devastating hurricane season.” Funding for today’s award was provided in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Consolidated Appropriations bill, authored by the House Appropriations Committee and approved by Congress in March. In total, the legislation included $35.18 million for FEMA’s USR system. The FY 2019 Department of Homeland Security funding bill, which was approved by the House Committee on Appropriations on July 25, provides $45.33 million for Urban Search and Rescue, a $10 million increase over FY 2018 funding directed to recapitalize critical equipment necessary to conduct life-saving search and rescue operations. ####
08.25.2018	“Every American is extremely grateful for Senator John McCain’s distinguished service to our nation. He was a fighter and a patriot. I was honored to serve with him in Congress and to call him a friend. My thoughts and prayers are with his family.” -30-
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is providing significant security funding to New Jersey and various organizations through a number of competitive grant programs, U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced. This critical funding was provided in the FY 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, authored by Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and signed into law by the President in March. “Unfortunately, our nation still faces a serious and persistent terror threat. As we saw earlier in the year, the Department of Homeland Security increased North Jersey’s Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) ‘threat score’ for Morris, Essex, Passaic, Bergen, Hudson, Middlesex, and Union counties. Today’s awards highlight the Appropriations Committee’s ongoing commitment to ensuring our communities across New Jersey and the entire nation have the necessary resources to assist our first responders prepare for and respond to these threats,” Frelinghuysen said. Specifically, the funding includes: $22.7 million for the Northern New Jersey UASI which provides assistance to our communities, facing the greatest risk, to respond to ever growing and more complex threats. “In the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks, I was an early advocate for the UASI program, which has proven so important to first responders in northern New Jersey. Since then, I have worked to protect UASI and ensure that New Jersey, the most densely populated state in the nation, receives more funding to prevent, prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism.” In addition, non-profit organizations in New Jersey will receive $8.6 million for infrastructure “hardening” and other physical security enhancements to non-profit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack including synagogues, Jewish Community Centers, and other faith based organizations. The FY2018 spending bill, crafted by the Appropriations Committee, more than doubled the funding for the Non-profit Security Grant Program to counter the growing number of threats to Jewish organizations and other vulnerable non-profits. $2.7 million in port security grants to state and local first responder organizations to secure our maritime ports. $16.4 million intransit security grants which will be utilized by New Jersey Transit to protect critical public surface transportation infrastructure and the traveling public from acts of terrorism. $8.4 million to New Jersey in Emergency Management Performance Grants to assist our state in building and sustaining critical capabilities for disaster preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation. $262,519 in funding to bus operators in New Jersey through the Intercity Bus Security Grant Program to assist with security preparedness. “I am pleased DHS is recognizing New Jersey’s vulnerabilities and unique security needs when distributing their funds.” -30-
08.16.2018	
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today secures funding for New Jersey and protects other programs important to New Jersey communities. The bill targets critical programs such as aviation security, border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, natural disaster response, and efforts to stop the smuggling of drugs and people into the U.S. The legislation also includes $5 billion for physical barriers and associated technology along the U.S. southern border. “This Committee takes its role in safeguarding our homeland and protecting our citizens seriously. Globalization, cybersecurity, and terrorism are changing our way of life and we need to change with it. This bill fully supports our men and women on the frontline who work tirelessly to keep us safe. The bill also provides the necessary funding for critical technology and physical barriers to secure our borders. It is a balanced approach that enhances our preparedness,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. The bill contains $17.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – an increase of $3.8 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. These resources ensure our borders are protected by putting boots on the ground, improving infrastructure and technology, and helping to stem the flow of illegal goods both into and out of the country. The legislation also recognizes recent controversies affecting children on the southern U.S. border. The bill directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure separated families units are reunited and are maintained together while in DHS custody The bill provides $3.7 million to support a new initiative by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to provide mental health screening, triage and support to unaccompanied children at southwest border locations. The bill requires robust reports from DHS on policies surrounding children and families and the process for reuniting families safely and effectively. To respond to both natural and man-made disasters, the bill funds the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster relief account (DRF) at $7.2 billion. This is the fund that was tapped for New Jersey after Superstorm Sandy. The legislation also includes $3 billion for several FEMA grant programs: The Urban Area Security Initiative, which assists high-threat, high-density Urban Areas like the New Jersey-New York Metropolitan Region in efforts to build and sustain the capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism, is funded at $661 million in the bill, a $31 million increase from FY 2018. In total, the bill includes $60 million for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NPSG). Nonprofit Security Grants provide funding support for target hardening and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack. Synagogues, Jewish Community Centers and schools, including several in New Jersey, continue to be targeted. $538 million is provided to the State Homeland Security Grant Program, a $31 million increase over FY 2018 which will assist states like New Jersey support terrorism preparedness. The bill also includes $700 million for Firefighter Assistance Grants and $350 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants in our communities. Urban Search and Rescue– The bill provides $45.33 million for Urban Search and Rescue, which funds 28 USR Teams including New Jersey Task Force 1 (NJ-TF 1). This is a $10 million increase in FY 2018 funding directed to recapitalize critical equipment necessary to conduct life-saving search and rescue operations. $7 million is included for Over-the-Road Bus Security Assistance Program, a significant increase in funding from FY 2018 levels. This program assists the bus industry, which conducts 630 million passenger trips per year, with security preparedness. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) continues to cite vehicle ramming attacks as a significant point of concern for the industry. Within the FEMA accounts, the legislation maintains robust funding for a number of programs that seek to reduce the risks of flooding, including Flood Mitigation Assistance Grants, Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grants and the Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis Program. Science & Technology Directorate (S&T) University Programs– The legislation includes $40.5 million in funding for University Programs. This funding will be provided to all 10 DHS Centers of Excellence, including the Maritime Security Center (MSC) at Stevens Institute of Technology (SIT). The MSC conducts innovative research, develops new tools and technologies and provides relevant maritime security-focused educational programs to enhance our nation's maritime domain awareness, the resiliency of our Marine Transportation System (MTS) and the technical skills of our current and prospective maritime security workforce. Cybersecurity and Protection of Communications –To combat increasingly dangerous and frequent cyber-attacks, the bill includes a total of $1.9 billion for the National Protection and Programs Directorate to enhance critical infrastructure and prevent hacking. Within this amount, $1.1 billion is provided to help secure civilian (.gov) networks, detect and prevent cyber-attacks and foreign espionage, and enhance and modernize emergency communications. U.S. Coast Guard– The United States Coast Guard (USCG) patrols New Jersey waterways and shoreline, interdicts drug shipments and responds to accidents. The bill contains $9.3 billion for the USCG. The bill provides for a 2.6 percent military pay increase, and targets resources to improve readiness. U.S. Secret Service- The bill provides $2.2 billion for the U.S. Secret Service an increase of $160 million from FY 2018 funding levels. Included in this funding is $6 million to continue support for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Additionally, the bill enhances the work of the Newark Office of the Secret Service, which is actually located in Morristown. Transportation Security Administration (TSA)– While rejecting higher TSA aviation and passenger security fees, the bill includes $7.3 billion for TSA, which fully funds Transportation Security Officers ($3.3 billion) and privatized screening operations at airports. The bill includes $20 million above the budget request for the purchase and installation of approximately 240 new carry-on baggage screening systems to improve detection capabilities at airport checkpoints. The bill also includes funding above the request to hire, train, and deploy 50 new canine teams to further enhance security and expedite processing time. ++ In total, the legislation directs $51.4 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, an increase of $3.7 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. In addition, the bill includes $6.7 billion – the same as the President’s request – for major disaster relief and emergency response activities through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). -30-
07.16.2018	"It is unacceptable that the President of the United States would deny the findings of our own intelligence community on Russian meddling in the last election and then fail to publicly demand an end to these attacks on our democracy. The American people have every right to be upset!"
06.19.2018	“I oppose the cruel ‘zero tolerance’ policy that is separating children from their parents near our southern border. Until a humane solution is developed, this policy should be suspended.” ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Committee on Appropriations, chaired by U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), today approved the Fiscal Year 2019 Department of Defense Appropriations bill by a 48-4 vote. The legislation funds military operations at home and overseas, increases the purchase of new aircraft and ships and improves readiness of our troops to meet global threats. The measure also provides for a 2.6% pay raise for our troops and strengthens the various health programs for military personnel and their families. In addition, the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations bill assures New Jersey’s continued contribution to our national security. “Our nation faces multiple challenges across the world, both longstanding and emerging. Our troops are serving with honor on the high seas and in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Korea, Japan, Europe and Africa,” Frelinghuysen said. “With the changing global dynamics and ever-growing threats to our security, it is absolutely imperative that our Armed Forces are properly trained, equipped, and fully supported in order to do their jobs,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “This legislation is critically important to our men and women in uniform and their families.” In addition to providing base operating funds for New Jersey’s military installations, Picatinny Arsenal, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, Naval Weapons Station Earle and the 177th Fighter Wing in Atlantic City, the legislation includes funding that will increase New Jersey’s military contributions. For example, the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations bill contains new funding to allow scientists, engineers and technicians at Picatinny Arsenal, the DoD Joint Center of Excellence for Armaments, to accelerate their urgent work to ensure that our weapons systems overmatch those of our adversaries. The bill also includes funding to expand production of the new KC-146 Pegasus air refueling tankers that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst beginning in 2020, enhancing the future missions of that New Jersey base. To protect New Jersey residents at home and abroad, the measure includes $1.3 billion above the President’s budget for key readiness programs to prepare forces, including New Jersey’s National Guard and Reserve, for peace-time missions and potential overseas operations. “Protecting the strength and sustainability of New Jersey’s unique military installations is critical to all of our Armed Forces,” Frelinghuysen said. “Supporting these bases is vital to both our national defense and our state’s historical support for national security. Beyond a doubt, they are essential to our economy, our national security, and our future.” Specifically, the Department of Defense bill: Provides over $300 million in funding to the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County as a result of a 2015 study conducted under the auspices of the Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD). The OSD study identified specific areas of concern including loss of weapons range overmatch, effects of enemy countermeasures to global positioning system (GPS), and the proliferation of low-cost commercially available unmanned aerial systems. This bill provides the funding to allow the experts at Picatinny to advance the capabilities of our Armed Forces as quickly as possible. Includes $2.3 billion to procure another 15 KC-46 Pegasus aircraft – the new airborne tanker that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, beginning in FY 2021. “The Joint Base has significant current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital,” Frelinghuysen said. The bill provides an additional $10 million to allow the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) to hasten their critical work of recovering the remains of military personnel lost in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. The bill maintains an increased special account used by the National Guard and Reserve to procure equipment to maintain readiness in key weapon systems and help close equipment interoperability gaps with the active Army and Air Force. The National Guard Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA) is funded at $1.3 billion, up significantly from two years ago. The bill provides $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. All of these funding levels exceed the President’s budget request ++++ Overall, the legislation provides a total of $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community. This includes $606.5 billion in base discretionary funding – an increase of $17.1 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $0.9 billion below the President’s Defense budget request. The bill also provides $68.1 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding. This funding level is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act which was approved by the House last March, as well as the recently enacted budget agreement. -30-
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2019 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committeesecures funding for programs important to New Jersey organizations and communities. The bill provides annual funding for the Treasury Department, the Judiciary, the Small Business Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other related agencies. Small Business Administration Small Business Administration (SBA) – The bill contains $737 million for the SBA to help promote opportunities for small businesses to begin, grow, and prosper. This includes full funding to support $30 billion in 7(a) and $7.5 billion in 504 small business loans. Also included is: $18 million for Women’s Business Centers, to support organizations like the Women’s Center for Entrepreneurship [WCEC] in Chatham, Morris County to help elevate women to business success through education, counseling, mentoring and entrepreneurial training. $130 million for Small Business Development Centers which will support The New Jersey Small Business Development Centers (NJSBDC) network which is committed to guiding established small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs to create and expand their business enterprises which will, in turn, result in sustainable growth, job creation and economic development across our state. The NJSBDC network includes 12 centers across New Jersey, including: NJSBDC at William Paterson University (Passaic County), NJSBDC at Rutgers Newark (Essex County) and NJSBDC of Northwest Jersey (Morris and Sussex County). $12.3 million for veterans programs to maximize small business opportunities for veterans, service-disabled veterans, and their dependents or survivors. Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) – receives $191 million, the President’s FY 2019 budget request had eliminated the program. This funding will continue to support organizations that make credit, capital, and other critical financial services available to disadvantaged businesses and low-income communities throughout NJ. Since 1996, over 3,000 CDFI loans have been made in NJ totaling $388 million. High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas(HIDTA) – The bill provides level funding of $280 million for HIDTA, which provides assistance to federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug-trafficking regions of the U.S. This grant program is administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). There are currently 28 HIDTAs, which include approximately 18 percent of all counties in the United States and 66 percent of the U.S. population. The following New Jersey counties are in the HIDTA NY/NJ region: Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Passaic, and Union. In addition to these funds, the bill provides an extra $15.4 million over the budget request to the US Postal Service Office of Inspector General to continue drug interdiction efforts and investigations. Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, Department of Treasury - receives $161 million, an increase of $20 million from FY 2018, to protect the financial system from being polluted with criminal and illicit activities and counteract national security threats from drug lords, terrorists, WMD proliferators and rogue nations. U.S. Potal Service Six Day Delivery –The bill includes language that would mandate six-day delivery by the U.S. Post Office. For many New Jersey families, Saturday is often the one day when most people are home to accept their mail. These mail customers rely on six-day delivery to receive vital mail or packages, like baby formula, prescription drugs, or social security checks. Internal Revenue Service - The legislation provides $11.6 billion in funding for the IRS, an increase of $186 million from FY 2018 enacted level. Included in this funding is $2.5 billion for Taxpayer Services, an increase of $250 million from the President’s budget request, to improve taxpayer services such as phone call and correspondence response times – and funding for fraud prevention, and cybersecurity. The bill also includes numerous provisions that seek to streamline and modernize the IRS to better assist and protect New Jersey taxpayers. In addition to funding of interest to New Jersey, the legislation maintains $45 million in funding for the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results (SOAR) Act, including $15 million for Opportunity Scholarships. These funds provide a “lifeline” for low-income families in Washington, D.C. who wish to send their children to a private or parochial school. ++ The bill totals $23.4 billion, which is equal to the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The legislation funds programs and activities at U.S. financial agencies that will help boost the economy, ensure a level playing field for U.S. businesses and industries, and prevent financial crime. -30-
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House today approved a package – commonly called a “mini-bus” – of three fiscal year 2019 Appropriations bills, including Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and the Legislative Branch. In total, the package provides $145.4 billion in discretionary funding, with the majority of this funding supporting our national defense and veterans, including New Jersey priorities. “These bills provide funding to rebuild our military infrastructure, support military families, improve nuclear security, support our nation’s energy and water infrastructure, and assure the smooth and safe operations of the Legislative Branch,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “This legislation begins the Appropriations process for this fiscal year, and sends the message that Congress is here to get our work done on behalf of the American people. We are committed to keeping the government open and functional with legislative action and responsible levels of funding.” The Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes strong funding for the Army Corps of Engineers – $451 million more than last year. Projects supported by this funding are vital to “keeping our local port, the New York-New Jersey harbor, open for business, and to protect people, businesses, and infrastructure from damages caused by floods and coastal storms.” Army Corps funding also supports: -Construction funding for the Green Brook Sub-Basin flood control project ($5 mil) and funds for monitoring of the Passaic River Flood Warning System; -Requires the Army Corps to update Congress with regular status update on the Passaic River Basin Mainstem project, the Peckman River project and the Rahway river project; -$2.1 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities, an increase of $190 million above fiscal year 2018 and $647 million above the President’s budget request; In addition, the legislation includes $590 million for Fusion Energy Sciences, which is $57 million above current levels. This funding supports work at the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab. The Military Construction- Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill includes a total of $194.5 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for VA, an increase of $9 billion above current levels. This funding will help address many of the problems currently facing VA, and provide for better and increased access to care for our veterans at the Lyons and East Orange VA Medical Centers. “These additional funds will provide resources for important priorities within the VA, such as health care access, suicide prevention outreach, claims processing, homeless prevention and care, opioid addiction, and medical research.” The bill also contains $1.2 billion for the new VA electronic health record system. This will ensure the implementation of the contract creating an electronic record system for VA that is identical to one being developed for Department of Defense (DOD). These two identical systems will help ensure our veterans get proper care, with timely and accurate medical data transferred between the VA, DOD, and the private sector. Reducing the disability claims backlog is essential to ensuring adequate compensation and care for the more than 450,000 veterans still wading through the VA bureaucracy to get a final decision on their claims. The bill will help speed this process and get veterans the decisions they are awaiting by providing $53 million above the request for the Veterans Benefits Administration, and $14 million above the 2018 level for the Board of Veterans Appeals, to be used for hiring additional claims and appellate staff, digital scanning of health records, and overtime pay. In addition, New Jersey’s largest military bases will receive new construction funding under the legislation which includes $41 million to build a “Munitions Disassembly Complex” at Picatinny Arsenal and $10.2 million to replace a “Hot Cargo Hydrant System” at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL). “This new military construction funding for both the New Jersey’s Joint Base and Picatinny is an endorsement of these installations’ current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital.” -30-
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2019 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today protects programs important to New Jersey communities. The legislation includes funding for the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other related agencies. “For too long, the transportation infrastructure in our nation has been neglected, which has dampened growth and efficiency. This bill will provide a much-needed boost in funding for improvements in our infrastructure system – whether it is roads, bridges, rail, bus, air travel, or waterways. I’m particularly pleased to see funding in the bill that will support the Northeast Corridor by modernizing and maintaining the safety of one of the busiest and most economically vital systems in the world,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “It also supports core community and housing programs to ensure shelter for our most vulnerable citizens, to expand economic opportunities for our local communities, and to improve the towns and cities that Americans call home.” The FY ’19 provides $3.2 billion for various rail programs, $62.5 million over current funding levels and $2.1 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation provides significant funding for critical Northeast Corridor rail infrastructure with $500 million in the Rail State of Good Repair account, an increase of $250 million above current levels. Amtrak is funded $1.9 billion, with $650 million dedicated to the Northeast Corridor account. “These investments will be used to shore up important transportation infrastructure that is vital to our economy and our national security. This includes funding that can be used for the Gateway Project, which is not just critical to New York and New Jersey but to the entire country. More than 20 states rely on the East Coast rail system,” said Frelinghuysen. “I worry greatly about the possibility of a catastrophe in one of the tunnels – the security and economic implications of which would ripple across the nation. So, the benefits of the Gateway Project exceed state lines and party lines. As I told Secretary Chao, the Administration’s opposition to this project is baffling, and frankly, unacceptable. So I am very, very glad to see that this bill provides the funds needed to move this project forward, and I urge Secretary Chao not to stand in the way of such an important investment that truly puts America first.” The bill also includes $262.3 million for rail safety and research, $40.4 million above the President’s budget request. The legislation also provides $390 million for Section 811 housing vouchers for non-elderly, disabled persons, an increase of $283 million above the President’s request. These “Frelinghuysen Vouchers” provide new housing opportunities for persons with disabilities. This funding will support existing voucher holders and serve 30,000 additional non-elderly disabled households. The Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, a program proposed for elimination by the Administration, is funded at $3.3 billion, the same as current levels. CDBG is a flexible program that provides communities in New Jersey with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. +++ In total, the bill reflects an allocation of $71.8 billion in discretionary spending – $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $23.8 billion above the request. The allocation reflects the second year of the bipartisan budget agreement, and again targets resources to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, including airports, roads, bridges, and rail. This funding will support critical infrastructure investments at the state and local level, and will provide needed resources for community development and essential housing programs. -30-
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today welcomed the announcement by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that it will be providing increased funding to New Jersey to build and sustain its capabilities to respond to terrorism. DHS today released the FY 2018 Homeland Security Grant Program Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO). In the NOFO for FY 2018, North Jersey’s Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which includes Morris, Essex, Passaic, Bergen, Hudson, Middlesex, and Union, funding will be increased by $3 million to $22.7 million as a result of the area’s threat score increasing from Threat Level #7 to Threat Level #6. “In the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks, I was early advocate for the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) program, which has proven so important to first responders in northern New Jersey,” said Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “Since then, I have worked to protect UASI and ensure that New Jersey, the most densely populated state in the nation, receives more funding to prevent, prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism.” “I am pleased that DHS is recognizing New Jersey’s vulnerabilities and unique security needs when distributing their funds.” This critical funding was provided in the FY 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, authored by Chairman Frelinghuysen, and signed into law by the President in March. The Act provides funding for the entire federal government through September 30, 2018. -30-
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2019 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today protects programs important to New Jersey communities. The bill funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. “As we see on the news nearly every day, our nation is facing increased threats here at home. Federal law enforcement is essential to fighting these threats, protecting our people, and making sure that those who do harm are brought to justice. This bill increases funding for law enforcement – making sure they have the resources they need to fight crime and terrorism,” Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “In addition, the bill includes important investments to boost U.S. scientific innovation that will maintain our nation’s status as a global leader.” The bill supports many programs important to New Jersey: Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Grants– the FY 2019 bill includes $493 million in funding for Violence Against Women Act programs which is $1 million above FY 2018 and an 8 million increase over the president’s budget request. VAWA grants are critical to the state of NJ to support services and programs in response to domestic violence and sexual assault. VAWA grants provide annual support to organizations like the Jersey Battered Women Service which uses this funding to support the Morris Family Justice Center and transitional living programs. Reduce Sexual Assault Kits Backlog Grants –the bill provides $48 (equal to FY 2018 funding and $3 million increase over president’s budget) to promote progress in reducing the backlog of untested sexual assault kits. These grants provide resources and improve processes to test kits, provide training to law enforcement personnel while providing justice and resolution to the victims of sexual assault. Byrne Justice Assistance Grants(JAG) – the legislation includes $442 million for the Department of Justice’s Byrne Justice Assistance Grants, an increase of $26 million over FY 2018. The cornerstone of federal crime fighting programs, this funding will provided direct assistance to New Jersey police officers and the law enforcement community by supporting multijurisdictional drug and gang task forces, information sharing and technology, county jails, prosecutors, drug courts, and juvenile delinquency and drug treatment programs. Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA)– The legislation provides $12 million, an increase of $3 million over the President’s budget request ($12 million provided in FY 2018) for CASA which will support CASA programs across the country including CASA of Morris and Sussex Counties, CASA for Children of Essex County, Passaic County CASA, and 12 other local CASA programs in New Jersey. These programs provided specially-trained and supervised advocates that devote sustained, long-term attention to the needs and rights of more than 3,800 child victims of abuse and neglect in New Jersey's 21 counties. These child victims face significant trauma, multiple risk factors and, without effective intervention, long odds for success. National Science Foundation (NSF)- The legislation funds NSF at $8.2 billion, an increase of $400 million over FY 2018. In 2017 New Jersey received $139 million from the NSF to support research at universities and colleges including Montclair State University, William Patterson, Princeton, Rutgers, Stevens Institute of Technology, Rider, Rowan and the College of New Jersey. In addition funding from the NSF was provided to NJ small businesses in order to create jobs and help grow the economy. Also included in this account is $123 million for the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST). Rutgers and Princeton are two of the 36 institutional members working on LSST, which is a multipurpose observatory. More than 27 scientists and engineers in New Jersey are working on this project which will bring more than $7.5 million to the state. Legal Services(LSC) - The bill funds LSC, which the Administration proposed eliminating, at $410 million (equal to FY 2018). LSC funding allows Legal Services of New Jersey to provide representation to an additional 20,000 New Jersey clients National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration(NOAA) – Overall, the legislation provides $5.2 billion for NOAA, an increase over the President’s $4.8 billion budget request. Among other important activities, the funding supports: $37.5 million for Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS), a significant increase over the $19 million requested by the President. This funding supports collection and dissemination of real-time data on the currents and dynamics of our oceans and Great Lakes which are used for a variety of essential services from Coast Guard search and rescue missions to severe weather forecasting. Rutgers is one of 11 Regional Associations of IOOS; $68.5 million for the National Sea Grant College, which the Administration slated for elimination. Funding supports the New Jersey Sea Grant Consortium to address challenges facing our coastal communities and work with nearly 23,000 school children to make ocean science part of their education. The funding also supports programs that filter storm- or wastewater along with publishing a technical manual which has resulted in the enhancement of a protective dunes system along the Jersey Shore; $27 million for the National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS). This program was eliminated in the President in his Budget Request. . The Jacques Cousteau Reserve, located in New Jersey and administered by Rutgers, in One of 29 reserves around the country that receives support through NERRS protect the biologically, ecologically, economically, and aesthetically important areas along our coasts known as estuaries. $875 million in funding for National Marine Fisheries Service, this funding helps ensure productive and sustainable New Jersey fisheries an economic engine in our state which employees 65,000 people and generates $2.5 billion in economic activity. $124 million in lending authority for Fisheries Finance Program including $100 million for traditional Direct Loans. Loans are available to businesses in New Jersey and elsewhere involved in fishing, aquaculture, or seafood processing for the purchase or improvement of facilities or equipment. Manufacturing Extension Program- $140 million provided in the bill, equal to the FY 2018 enacted level. The Administration had proposed to eliminate the program. Since 2000, New Jersey manufacturers have reported the following results as a result of engaging NJ MEP: • $2.29 billion in increased and retained sales; • 31,215 in jobs created or retained; ### The legislation includes $62.5 billion in total discretionary funding, an increase of $2.9 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level. The bill provides increases for federal law enforcement to crack down on illegal immigration, violent crime, gangs and opioid trafficking. The bill targets funding increases for national security – including countering cybercrime, terrorism and espionage. Funds are included to continue investments in space exploration, advance groundbreaking science, enhance school safety, and provide adequate resources for the upcoming decennial census. -30-
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee this week advances flood control and storm and flood preparedness in New Jersey. Overall, the legislation provides annual funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy (DOE), and other related agencies. “In an increasingly complex and dangerous world, national security is our number-one priority. This bill will fund essential programs that maintain our nuclear deterrence posture in the face of growing global threats – including Russia, China, North Korea and other countries that are testing the tolerance of the international community,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “Further, this legislation will make important investments in our energy development and water infrastructure to keep our economy growing and to continue the country’s lead in essential energy technology and innovation.” “This bill includes strong funding for the Army Corps of Engineers – $451 million more than last year. Projects supported by this funding are vital to keeping our local port, the New York-New Jersey harbor, open for business and to protect people, businesses, and infrastructure from damages caused by floods and coastal storms,” he said. “The Army Corps’ work also ensures our ports and waterways are able to move cargo and bulk goods around the country and overseas.” Army Corps funding also supports -Construction funding for the Green Brook Sub-Basin flood control project ($5 mil) and funds for monitoring of the Passaic River Flood Warning System ($668,000) -Requires the Army Corps to update Congress with regular status update on the Passaic River Basin Mainstem project, the Peckman River project and the Rahway river project -$2.1 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities, an increase of $190 million above fiscal year 2018 and $647 million above the President’s budget request; In addition, the legislation includes $590 million for Fusion Energy Sciences, which is $57 million above FY18 and $250 million above the request. This funding supports work at the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab. The bill also provides $6.6 billion for science research – an increase of $340 million above the 2018 enacted level. This funding supports basic energy research, the development of high-performance computing systems, and research into the next generation of energy sources. The bill makes critical targeted investments to protect our nation’s energy infrastructure against cyber and other attacks. Within this funding, $117 million – $41 million above the fiscal year 2018 level – is directed to research and development activities to strengthen the security of our electric grid. To support these activities further, the bill adopts the Administration’s budget proposal to create a new account, “Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response.” The bill continues congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, providing a total of $267.7 million, an increase of $100 million above the President’s budget request. Funding will be used to accelerate progress toward meeting the federal government’s legal obligation to take responsibility for storing the nation’s nuclear waste, some of which is now stored in New Jersey. +++ Overall, the FY 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations billtotals $44.7 billion – $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $8.17 billion above the President’s budget request. Funding is targeted toward national security efforts – including nuclear weapons activities – and energy and water infrastructure investments. This level is in line with the overall discretionary caps put in place through the two-year budget cap agreement. -30-
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C -- Calling it “another step toward a stronger Veterans Administration,” U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised House passage of S. 2372, the VA Mission Act, legislation designed to ensure veterans are receiving the care and benefits they deserve. “For years, I have been working with my Congressional colleagues to modernize the VA and transform it into an effective, modern, state-of-the-art organization focused on support of veterans and their families,” said Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “While the VA Mission Act is not the complete answer, it is another step towards better service for those who have worn the nation’s uniform.” The VA MISSION Act of 2018 (S. 2372) will help veterans, in several major ways, by: -Streamlining all of the community care programs, including the Veterans Choice Program, into one common sense program; -Expanding the VA’s caregivers program to all war eras of veterans, not just the post-9/11 generation, which is critical. This program should be available to all war eras and the families of veterans who proudly served our nation; -Providing additional resources to the VA to fund the Veterans Choice Program through the next year while the community care programs are being modified and streamlined. The VA Mission Act passed the House today by a vote of 347-70. It had previously passed the United States Senate. “With these reforms to vital care services, we are returning the VA to its core mission. I was proud to support the VA Mission Act and look forward to the President signing the bill soon,” said Frelinghuysen. -30-
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, U.S. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised the decision by Secretary Mike Pompeo to lift the hiring freeze at the State Department. “The talented men and women of the State Department are on this country’s front lines, defending our national interests and freedom around the world,” said Frelinghuysen. “If we are to effectively ‘marry’ the ‘hard power’ of our military with the ‘soft power’ of diplomacy, we need the right foreign service personnel at the right posts now!” In a statement released today, Pompeo said resuming the hiring of Foreign and Civil Service personnel will “give our domestic bureaus and missions overseas the flexibility to fill positions that are essential to promoting the Department's mission and the United States' foreign policy goals worldwide on behalf of the American people.” “It’s an increasingly complex and challenging world,” said Frelinghuysen. “Secretary Pompeo understands that we need the most gifted and qualified people promoting our interests across the globe!” -30-
05.07.2018	Picatinny, Joint Base McGuire to Receive New Construction Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – New Jersey’s largest military bases will receive new construction funding under legislation expected to be approved tomorrow by the House Appropriations Committee, U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announced today. Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill for FY ’19 includes $41 million to build a “Munitions Disassembly Complex” at Picatinny Arsenal and $10.2 million to replace a “Hot Cargo Hydrant System” at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL). “The Improvised Explosive Device (IED) has become the weapon of choice for terrorists and certain nations bent on conducting hybrid warfare, so we have a lot to learn,” said Frelinghuysen. “The new complex at Picatinny will support research and development for IEDs and will also include a munitions disassembly facility, a robotics experimentation capability, a render-safe area, and storage magazines. This new complex will advance our understanding of this threat while keeping Picatinny’s staff safe.” The FY 2019 Military Construction-VA bill also provides $10.2 million for replacement of a “hot cargo hydrant system” at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL). JBMDL is current preparing for the arrival of the Air Force’s new KC-46 tanker. The FY ’18 Consolidated Appropriations Act signed into law by the President in March, provided $157 million for a new hanger and training facility at the base. “The new military construction funding for both the New Jersey’s Joint Base and Picatinny is an endorsement of these installations’ current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital,” Frelinghuysen said. -30-
05.04.2018	Federal Community Funding Flows to 11th Congressional District WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development will be sending increased Community and Development Block Grant (CDBG) formula grant funding to municipalities and counties in the 11th Congressional District, as a result of the higher allocations in the FY 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen has announced. Bloomfield, Parsippany-Troy Hills and Wayne, along with Morris, Essex and Passaic counties will all be receiving an increase in funding above FY17 levels. “The FY 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act provides $3.3 billion for CDBG, which is $300 million above the previous levels in FY17,” said Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. “I was pleased that we were able to boost funding for this important program, even as the President proposed eliminating CDBG altogether.” The CDBG program provides annual grants to state and local governments to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. FY18 awards Bloomfield - $994,311 Parsippany-Troy hills - $241,311 Wayne - $184,046 Essex County - $5,192,314 Morris County - $1,932,888 Passaic County - $849,041 The state of New Jersey will also receive $6.7 million for FY18. -30-
04.24.2018	Sparta, Wayne, Madison Students Win Local 2018 Congressional Art Competition MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY -- Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced the winner, runners-up, and honorable mentions of the 2018 Congressional Arts Competition. Alyssa Talon of Sparta and Pope John XXIII High School was the First Place honoree for her oil painting entitled “Girl on the Bus” Ava Economou of Wayne Valley High School was awarded second place for her pencil work entitled “Reflections of the Past” Rachel Cenicola of Madison High School was awarded third place for her photo entitled “The Stories We Wear” Honorable mention was garnered by: Tafari Dempster, Whippany Park High School – his colored pencil work entitled “Bioluminesence”; Caitlyn Gethins of Whippany Park High School – her photograph entitled “From Heaven Above”; Morgan Hoover of Wayne Valley High School – her gel pen work entitled “”Mel”; Katherine Hu of Randolph and Morris County School of Technology – her painting entitled “Perspicacious.” “My annual Congressional Art Competition allows students to express themselves through many creative artistic mediums,” Frelinghuysen said. “I am beyond proud and admire each of the 63 artists who made submissions from 23 schools. I congratulate Alyssa Talon of Sparta on her winning work of art!” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. The competition concluded with a reception at the Morris Museum. Independent judges determined the winners as well as those art works that received honorable mention. -30-
04.12.2018	Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Elaine Chao, Secretary, Department of Transportation 2:00 PM Thursday, April 12, 2018 Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the time and for your strong leadership of the Committee, along with your very able Ranking Member, Mr. Price of North Carolina. I also want to welcome Secretary Chao to the Appropriations Committee again. Madame Secretary, we look forward to your testimony and to hearing your frank and candid views on a wide range of issues. As I say at every meeting, the “power of the purse” lies in this building - it is the Constitutional duty of Congress to make spending decisions on behalf of the people we represent at home. And, Chairman Diaz-Balart and Mr. Price have spent their increased FY ’18 allocation from the “caps” deal wisely on your behalf from that agreement. Furthermore, Mrs. Lowey and I look forward to rapidly concluding work on the Fiscal ’19 bills with the same oversight and forethought. The Gateway Project is a prime example of an infrastructure investment that will promote greater economic and national security benefits, as it effects twenty or more states who use the East Coast rail system and whose passengers and freight depend on this narrow access point in New York and New Jersey, known as the Gateway, the Trans-Hudson River Tunnels. Madame Secretary, the benefits – no, the necessity – of this project is clear. I remain angered by this Administration’s opposition and very calculated indifference. And this posture from an Administration which claims to be “infrastructure-centric!” It is totally unacceptable! Some have suggested that partisan considerations - by the White House and some in my own party - are at work here. I should hope not. To me, this is a national priority, above politics, by two states that bore the brunt of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and, more recently, Super Storm Sandy. I remind the Committee that the $900 million Chairman Diaz-Balart put in the House-passed bill last September was available for other eligible, authorized projects around the nation, not just for Gateway! Sadly, we had an Administration fixated on removing it it entirely during budget negotiations. The Gateway project is vital to the Northeast and it will be completed - sooner or later - despite opposition. After all, the Northeast Rail Corridor is the most heavily used passenger rail line in the entire United States, serving more than 750,000 people every day on more than 2,200 inter-city and commuter trains. Quite honestly, I worry about the possibility of a catastrophe in one of the tunnels. So there are potential homeland and national security implications as well – short-term and, to use your own words Madame Secretrary, into perpetuity! Today, God forbid, if one of these tunnels were to fail for any reason, the negative economic and security (transportation) implications would ripple across the East Coast and the nation. I REPEAT: Gateway will be built, if not during your tenure Madame Secretary, then thereafter! And in closing I’m grateful to Chairman Diaz Balart and Mr. Price for providing the needed funds to go forward, admittedly a lesser amount, but none-the-less, a strong start! With that, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for the time and yield back.
04.11.2018	“The pending retirement of House Speaker Paul Ryan is a loss to the nation. But even though his Washington journey may be ending, I am confident that he will find future ways to contribute that will improve the lives of all Americans.”
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives will vote this week to approve a package of 12 appropriations bills to provide funding for the federal government for the 2018 fiscal year, including many programs of importance to New Jersey. Passage of the measure will complete House consideration of all 12 annual Appropriations bills, boost U.S. Armed Forces and keep the federal government “open for business.” “The Omnibus Appropriations bill funds important domestic and international programs that help our economy grow, keep our people safe and preserve America’s leadership across the globe,” said Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. The legislation provides $1.3 trillion in discretionary funding for all 12 annual appropriations bills, including over $654 billion for the Department of Defense - $589.5 billion in base defense spending and $65 billion for the Global War on Terror/Overseas Contingency funding. This represents the largest investment in 15 years and will continue efforts to rebuild our Armed Forces after years of damage done under the previous Administration. This funding provides our warfighters with the resources they need to win the fight and return home safely. It fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for our troops and their families! “Global Security threats are growing and evolving and every passing day of reduced military funding creates an ever-increasing risk for our men and women on the front lines. We must stop asking them to continue to do more with less. This bill continues the rebuilding of our Armed Forces in order to ensure the effectiveness and safety of our men and women in uniform.” The Omnibus also directs funding to critical domestic priorities: Provides the largest investment to date to combat the opioid crisis, a national public health emergency, including robust funding for treatment, prevention and law enforcement programs that stop the spread of these dangerous drugs and help families and communities get the assistance they need; Helps keep our children safe in school by targeting more than $2.3 billion in new funding to effective mental health, training and school safety efforts at the Departments of Justice, Education and Health and Human Services; Rebuilds some of America’s aging infrastructure by investing an additional $22 billion for infrastructure projects across the country, including energy, water, cyber and transportation; The Omnibus also includes many provisions of interest to families and municipalities in New Jersey: Department of Defense: The package provides over $130 million in funding to the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County as a result of a recent study conducted under the auspices of the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). The OSD study identified specific areas of concern including loss of weapons range overmatch, effects of enemy countermeasures to global positioning system (GPS), and the proliferation of low-cost commercially available unmanned aerial systems. This bill provides the funding to allow the experts at Picatinny to advance the capabilities of our Armed Forces as quickly as possible. In addition to providing operations and maintenance monies for every New Jersey military installation, the bill also provides $2.4 billion for another 15 KC-46 aircraft – the new airborne tanker that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. “The funding for New Jersey’s Joint Base is an endorsement of the installation’s current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital,” Frelinghuysen said. The bill provides an additional $10 million to allow the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) to hasten their critical work of recovering the remains of military personnel lost in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War and includes an additional $5 million for “public-private partnerships” to accelerate DPAA’s partnerships with universities who perform important forensic work. The bill significantly increases the size of a special account used by the National Guard and Reserve to procure equipment to maintain readiness in key weapon systems and help close equipment interoperability gaps with the active Army and Air Force. The National Guard Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA) is funded at $1.3 billion, up 30 percent from current levels. Military Construction/Veterans Affairs: Includes $185.4 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including $68.8 billion for veterans health care, which is $4.2 billion over FY 2017, $8.4 billion for veterans mental health, $196 million for suicide prevention outreach and $7.3 billion for homeless veteran programs. Provides over $157 million to upgrade facilities at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst to help Joint Base-McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst prepare for the arrival of the Air Force’s new KC-46 tanker, providing funding for a new hanger and training facility. Transportation-Housing and Urban Development: Total rail resources are $3.1 billion, $1.2 billion above last year. This is the most significant rail investment in a decade. With a particular focus on rail infrastructure and safety, the bill includes $250M for Positive Train Control (PTC) grants. Provides $834 million in new funds for transit formula grants, for which New Jersey is eligible. Provides significant funding for critical Northeast Corridor rail infrastructure with $250 million in the Rail State of Good Repair account and $650M in the Amtrak Northeast Corridor account. These funds are available to start construction of critical projects including Gateway. The bill provides the highest ever annual level of Transit capital investment funding with a total of $2.6 billion, which will support significant investments in New Jersey Transit priorities. The legislation also provides $505 million for Section 811 housing vouchers for non-elderly, disabled persons, an increase of $385 million from current levels, providing an increase of 40,000 vouchers. These “Frelinghuysen Vouchers” provide new housing opportunities for persons with disabilities. The Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program is funded at $3.3 billion, $300 million above current levels. CDBG is a flexible program that provides communities in NJ with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. Homeland Security: The Urban Area Security Initiative, which assists high-threat, high-density urban areas like the New Jersey-New York Metropolitan Region in efforts to build and sustain the capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism, is funded at $630 million. Just as in the original House bill, the Nonprofit Security Grant Program is increased by $25 million to a total of $50 million. Nonprofit Security Grants provide funding support for target hardening and other physical security enhancements to nonprofits, including faith based organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack. Synagogues, Jewish Community Centers and schools, including several in New Jersey, were targeted over the past year in a series of bomb threats. The bill also includes $350 million for Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) and $350 million for Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Grants which provide critical funding to NJ firefighters. Interior: Includes full funding for the Chemical Safety Board, a program slated for elimination by the Administration. Under this legislation, the key Environmental Protection Agency’s Drinking Water and Clean Water State Revolving Funds are funded at $2.9 billion. A $66 million increase in the Superfund hazardous waste clean-up program. New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state. The Land and Water Conservation Fund is slated for $425 million, including $10 million in FY 2018 for the federal Highlands Conservation Act (HCA). The measure also reauthorizes open space preservation from willing sellers under Frelinghuysen’s HCA. A major source of drinking water and in the most densely populated metropolitan area in the country, the Highlands is a critical area in need of protection. Authorizes the addition of 100 acres of land to Morristown National Historical Park from willing sellers or donators. The National Heritage Areas program, which the Administration had proposed to eliminate, is increased by $500,000 over the FY 2017 funding level of $19.8 million, supporting the Crossroads of the American Revolution Area in New Jersey. The National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities are both increased to $153 million. The Administration had proposed to terminate both programs. State-Foreign Operations: Continues the limitation on assistance for any country, such as Cuba, that refuses to extradite to the United States any individual indicted for a serious criminal offense. Joanne Chesimard, the convicted killer of a New Jersey State Trooper, has been harbored by Cuba for decades. Labor-Health and Human Services: National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding is increased by $3 billion to a total of $37 billion, supporting research at universities throughout New Jersey, such as 2017 grantees St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, Atlantic Health System in Morristown, and Kessler Foundation in West Orange. The bill contains a targeted increase of $300 million at NIH to support Cancer Moonshot which increases support for New Jersey’s only National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey. Provides $9.86 billion for Head Start, supporting our local Head Start programs. Funds Pell Grants at $22.5 billion and maintains the current “year round” Pell Grant award at $6,095 to assist students attending colleges and universities throughout our state. Community Health Centers - funding of $5.4 billion, a substantial increase over current levels. Local health centers include the Zufall Health Centers in Dover, Morristown and West Orange. Energy and Water Development: Includes strong funding for the Army Corps of Engineers of $6.83 billion for projects that are vital to New Jersey to protect people, businesses, and infrastructure from damages caused by floods and coastal storms. The Army Corps’ work also ensures our ports and waterways are able to move cargo and bulk goods around the country and keeps the Port of New York and New Jersey open for business after the Harbor Deepening Project. Funding for the Office of Science is increased by $900 million for a total of $6.35 billion. The money is used to keep the national laboratories, including Princeton Plasma Physics Lab, at the forefront of global scientific discovery. Financial Services-General Government: Provides over $700 million for the Small Business Administration (SBA) to promote opportunities for American small businesses, including those in New Jersey, to begin, grow, and prosper. $130 million will go to Small Business Development Centers (SBDC), supporting the New Jersey Small Business Development Centers (NJSBDC) network which is committed to guiding established small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs to create and expand their business enterprises. The NJSBDC network includes 12 centers across New Jersey: NJSBDC at William Paterson University (Passaic County), NJSBDC at Rutgers Newark (Essex County) and NJSBDC of Northwest Jersey (Morris and Sussex County). SBA Women Business Centers will receive $18 million in funding to support organizations like the Women’s Center for Entrepreneurship in Chatham, Morris County to help elevate women to business success through education, counseling, mentoring and entrepreneurial training. Commerce-Justice-Science: $492 million in funding for Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) programs. VAWA grants are critical to our State to support services and programs in response to domestic violence and sexual assault. VAWA grants provide support to organizations like the Jersey Battered Women Service. The CJS section also provides $47.5 million to promote progress in reducing the backlog of untested sexual assault kits. These grants provide resources to process test kits, train law enforcement personnel, while providing justice and resolution to the victims of sexual assault. Agriculture: The measure also supports a new Food and Drug Administration (FDA) program, the Continuous Manufacturing Initiative, for institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations which are working to transform pharmaceutical production. The goal is to develop new technologies to replace the pharmaceutical industry’s century-old batch processing methods, which will benefit patients and healthcare providers. The Committee also directs the Agricultural Research Service to continue researching the cultural needs of blueberries and cranberries including genetic improvements to increase genetic diversity and improve resistance to various disease and insects. “These investments are made responsibly. In each of the titles within this package, we have found savings, gotten rid of waste, fraud and duplication, and increased oversight to ensure that no taxpayer dollar is misspent,” said Frelinghuysen.” -30-
03.09.2018	MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced that the 2018 Congressional Art Competition is open to entrants. He invites all high school age students from New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District, which includes 54 municipalities in Morris, Essex, Passaic and Sussex counties, to participate. “Each year, the students from my Congressional District display exceptional artistic talent and vision through our Congressional Art Competition,” Frelinghuysen said. “I am excited to review the submissions this year.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Students submit entries to their Representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. The New Jersey C.D. 11 winning entry from last year, “Don’t Look.” by Barbara Benda of Nutley High School, has been displayed in the Capitol over the past year. Each school may submit up to four entries from students residing in the district. The deadline for art submissions is 5:00pm on Friday April 13 to Congressman Frelinghuysen’s Morristown office: 30 Schuyler Place, Morristown NJ, 07960. Specific rules and information can be found here. Please contact Congressman Frelinghuysen’s Morristown office at 973-984-0711 should you have any questions. -30-
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has urged President Trump to proceed very carefully as he considers imposition of new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. “The U.S. government has an obligation to act when nations and companies trade unfairly and hurt America through their practices and pricing,” said Frelinghuysen. “However, it is clear that new across-the board tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will raise costs for American businesses and, thus, American consumers. In many ways, they act as a new tax on the American people.” “There is also a national security aspect to this debate,” said Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and the immediate past Chairman of its Defense Subcommittee. “At a time when global threats are rising and evolving, the United States needs all the partners and allies it can get. I cannot see how new worldwide trade wars, undertaken in retaliation to our broad-based streel and aluminum tariffs, can promote security cooperation.” “There is no doubt that the United States must defend itself and its industries and workers from unfair trade. However, the solution must not cause greater problems than they seek to solve,” he said. -30-
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has been honored by the Veterans of Foreign Wars with the 2018 VFW Congressional Award. The award is presented annually to one sitting member of the House or Senate that the VFW deems to have “made the most significant contribution towards veterans, service members, their families and the nation” over the past year. In announcing the award, VFW Commander-in-Chief Keith E. Harmon said Frelinghuysen’s “work and leadership are the key difference toward ensuring the Department of Veterans Affairs provides the quality and timely access to care and benefits America’s veterans both earned and deserve.” He went to commend Frelinghuysen for “ensuring the members of our Armed Forces are properly trained and equipped, and that their families are properly cared for.” “I have had the honor of representing the people of New Jersey in the House of Representatives for twenty-three years,” said Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “Among my highest priorities – from my first day in office – has been to support our Armed Forces, and their families, and also the veterans who served before them, especially those who have returned home with injuries – seen and unseen. They deserve a quality veterans’ health care system and I work every day to see that they get it!” “I thank the VFW for recognizing my commitment to those who serve!” Frelinghuysen, an Army veteran of the Vietnam war, is a life member of the VFW and a member of Post 3401 in Morris Plains. He has previously been honored by the New Jersey VFW, the American Legion, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, National Guard, the Association of the United States Army and the National Defense Industrial Association. -30-
02.09.2018	Washington, February 9, 2018 - House Committee on Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen made the following statement on the House floor this morning in support of the Bipartisan Budget Act (Senate Amendment to House Amendment to Senate Amendment H.R. 1892): I yield myself such time as I may consume. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to present the Senate Amendment to the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1892, a bipartisan, bicameral bill outlining funding for the next two fiscal years and funding for the government through March 23, providing much needed emergency supplemental funding for disaster recovery, and raising the nation’s debt ceiling. This legislation will help our nation move forward – without the threat of shutdown or default, and with greater budget certainty. This bill will allow us to move past this destructive cycle of Continuing Resolutions, which undermine the Appropriations process and promotes only more uncertainty and doubt about our government’s ability to function, and meet the needs of those we represent! I’m pleased that this legislation includes an agreement, reached on a bipartisan basis by House and Senate Leaders, on spending “caps” for both FY 2018 and FY 2019. Especially important is a substantial increase in funds for national defense. Our nation faces multiple security challenges and increasingly aggressive – not to mention, well-equipped – adversaries. We must be prepared to meet these challenges, and we must take care of the men and women in uniform, who do the work of freedom. After years of reductions to military funding and months of uncertainty caused by Continuing Resolutions, it’s time that we provide our Armed Forces what they need to rebuild and keep our nation safe! The agreement also outlines investments in important, bipartisan domestic priorities, such as fighting the opioid abuse epidemic, supporting veterans, and rebuilding and renewing infrastructure across the country. These topline spending levels will enable us to get to work immediately on our 12 Appropriations bills to wrap up fiscal year 2018, and to quickly turn our attention to fiscal year 2019. This legislation also includes a short-term Continuing Resolution – our last for this year – which will fund the federal government through March 23, 2018. This will maintain programs and services that all Americans depend on until all 12 annual Appropriations bills can be enacted. I look forward to working with our Senate counterparts to negotiate and complete all 12 full-year Appropriations bills ahead of that deadline. In addition to these critical pieces of government funding, this legislation also provides $89.3 billion in emergency disaster funding – funding that has been urgently needed since the House passed its version in December. This funding will provide residents of Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the Western states with the means to rebuild their lives after last year’s historic and devastating natural disasters. Lastly, this bill increases the debt limit through March 1, 2019 – so we can pay our bills and avoid the economic damage of a default. Mr. Speaker, the Senate has just passed this bill, and now it is up to the House to do the same, and send this legislation to the President for his signature. I urge a “yes” vote on this bill. I reserve the balance of my time. -30-
01.29.2018	“Today as I announce my retirement at the end of this session of Congress, I want to use the opportunity to strongly encourage the many young people I meet to consider public service. Public service is an incredible way to turn your convictions into something that serves the greater good and to do it alongside people from every walk of life and background. That has certainly been my experience here in this House, and during my Army service in Vietnam. I thank my friends and colleagues with whom I have served. My years in public service have allowed me to represent my home county of Morris for over 40 years, and also Essex, Passaic, Sussex Counties, and earlier on, Somerset! That would not have been possible without the love and support of my wife, Virginia, our two girls and my late father and mentor, Peter. The unsung heroes of my time in Congress are my staff, both in Morristown and Washington, who tend every day to the needs of 730,000 constituents! “During my time serving here there have been times of great tragedy including the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and the ravages of Hurricane Sandy on my home state. In my role on the House Appropriations Committee, I made sure that New Jersey’s needs were met in both the immediate aftermath as well as over time in the wake of these events. I have proudly been able to secure key federal investments for New Jersey to strengthen our economy, our institutions of higher education, our hospitals and public transportation systems, to preserve open space and protect the environment and to better serve our veterans and our fellow citizens with mental illness and disabilities. “As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, this past year I have had a singular focus on “getting our work done”. We completed 12 appropriations bills left over from 2017, we passed all 2018 bills in record time through regular order, and three Disaster Supplementals Appropriations bills, historic in scope, and the expediency with which we acted to help our fellow citizens. In my remaining year as chairman, I am determined to finish the FY18 bills and pass our FY19 bills through regular order. Every member, Republican and Democrat, will continue to have ample opportunity to directly impact the Congressional power of the purse and decide the best and highest use of limited taxpayer money. This will require -- and I will happily devote -- all my energies to this task. “Throughout my service in this House, my deepest devotion has been to supporting our Armed Forces, all volunteers, and their families, here and abroad, and those warfighters who have returned home with injuries and who depend on a functioning veterans’ health care system. To those of you I have met while you served us overseas and to those of you that I have sat by your bedside, I hope and trust I have served you well. “I have worked in a bipartisan manner, not just in times of crisis but always, because I believe it best serves my constituents, my state and our country. My father reminded me often that we are temporary stewards of the public trust. I have sincerely endeavored to earn that trust every day and I thank my constituents and my home state of New Jersey for the honor to serve and I will continue to do so to the best of my abilities through the end of my term.” ###
01.23.2018	
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congress has approved legislation to extend funding for federal operations and end the government shutdown. The Continuing Resolution (CR) is a stopgap measure that will maintain government funding through February 8, 2018. In addition to continuing government funding and ending the shutdown, the bill includes language to extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years, a provision that allows the Department of Defense to provide funding to enhance our missile defense activities, and extensions of several health care-related tax provisions. Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen made the following statement on the legislation: “This legislation extends government funding through February 8, 2018 – ending this dangerous government shutdown. This legislation will allow time for Congress and the White House to continue to negotiate a longer term funding agreement, while maintaining essential government programs and services. “The Appropriations Committee and the House passed all 12 Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations bills in September 2017, along with other critical measures such as funding for emergency disaster relief more recently. The Senate has not. In order to negotiate and finally enact this essential legislation, there must be a bipartisan agreement between the House, Senate, and White House on year-long funding levels. It is the Constitutional duty of Congress to provide resources for the needs of our people and our Armed Forces. My Committee stands at the ready to fulfill this responsibility, and will work as quickly as possible to complete these funding bills as soon as the overall agreement is reached.” #####
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation (H.J.Res 25) introduced by Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) to maintain current funding for federal operations and prevent a government shutdown. This fourth Continuing Resolution (CR) is a stop-gap measure that will extend government funding through February 16, 2018. If the Senate does not pass this legislation, existing funding will run out on Friday, January 19, 2018. In addition to continuing essential government funding, the bill extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years and suspends for two years the imposition of the medical device excise tax. “It is critically important that we provide resources for our children’s health. Families across the nation rely on CHIP - the Children’s Health Program - to help sick children and support pregnant mothers to ensure healthy and happy futures. This legislation extends this important program for another six years.” “The 2.3 percent tax on medical devices which took effect January 1 may sound minimal, but it adds to the costs that every hospital, rehabilitation facility and doctor must charge patients,” said Frelinghuysen. “Many people depend on medical devices to keep them alive or living independently every day. It was one of the most punitive taxes enacted through the Affordable Care Act (ACA).” H.J. Res 25 also includes funding to advance U.S. missile defense systems in light of the developing threat from North Korea. “This Continuing Resolution is needed to provide government funding and avoid a shutdown of essential services to the American people. My hope is that House and Senate Leadership and the White House can reach consensus quickly on a budget agreement, so that essential Appropriations work on all 12 government funding bills can be completed,” Frelinghuysen said. “We are now four months into the 2018 Fiscal Year, and Congress must act as soon as possible to ensure that proper, year-long funding for our national defense and other critical federal programs is enacted.” The final vote on H.J. Res. 25 (the House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 195) was 230-197. -30-
01.12.2018	“The President’s remarks about Haiti and other nations are deplorable and deserve universal condemnation. “The ‘Dreamers’ are young people who were brought to our country through no fault of their own, often as young children, by their parents. For many, this is the only country they have ever known. “I look forward to supporting legislation that provides a comprehensive solution to their plight, ensuring that those who have done nothing wrong can remain a part of this great country.” -30-
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, is writing to federal transit officials that the Gateway/Hudson River Tunnels projects are a “national infrastructure priority” that needs to be done. In a letter dated January 4, 2018 to FTA Deputy Administrator K. Jane Williams, Frelinghuysen wrote, “A project of this size and scope requires investment from all stakeholders and your vision too! I strongly encourage the Administration to support my state and New York in this effort.” “I believe it is unrealistic for the Administration to expect the most important infrastructure project in the country to move forward without full participation and investment from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and Department of Transportation (DOT).” Frelinghuysen’s letter was prompted by recent correspondence from Williams to New York state officials in which she denied the existence of a funding agreement for the first phase of the project. “It is …imperative we pursue Gateway to ensure millions of Americans continue to access this vital economic Northeast Corridor that enables safe transportation of more than 800,000 daily riders, from Washington to Boston, in an area that supports approximately 20 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP). Further, this rail project serves as a critical choke point for Amtrak’s entire operation on the East Coast from Florida to Maine. Frelinghuysen also reminded FTA Administrator Williams, “It is the responsibility of the House Committee on Appropriations to assure that such national priorities are met.” The full text of the letter is attached. -30-
12.19.2017	“The people of New Jersey already carry an extremely heavy tax burden. They need and deserve tax cuts. Unfortunately, H.R. 1 caps the federal deduction for state and local taxes (SALT) which will lead to tax increases for far too many hardworking New Jersey families. This legislation will also damage our state’s housing market and business environment. “I had hoped to be able to vote for a pro-growth tax bill. However, H.R. 1 forces New Jersey residents to pay for tax cuts for residents in other states. I voted ‘No’!” -30-
11.22.2017	Frelinghuysen Delivers for Local First Responders MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY - Northern New Jersey’s first responders have been receiving important new training tools thanks to the advocacy of U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). Since October of 2016, Frelinghuysen has been working with local fire departments and county training academies on creating a pilot program to enhance automobile extrication training – a skill used nearly every day on the roads of New Jersey. “Auto accident scenes are chaotic and very dangerous and first responders must be very proficient in extricating injured victims. To make their training as credible as possible, they need real vehicles for their drills,” said Frelinghuysen. “We jumped on the opportunity to contact Volkswagen, which agreed to donate cars. This is proving to be a solid partnership.” Volkswagen has diesel vehicles in the inventory of the “buy back” program they established in 2015 to take the cars off the road due to faulty emissions testing systems. “I want to commend the Mountain Lakes Fire Department which came up with the idea to reutilize vehicles. I also want to thank Volkswagen for working for months with our office to get this program off the ground,” said Frelinghuysen. Mountain Lakes received three cars in September and trained with these cars multiple times over the last month, most recently on Tuesday, November 21. Brookside Engine Company (Mendham) has received two cars and will also be conducting training in the near future. Volkswagen is now working with officials at the Morris County Sherriff and Training Academy and the Sussex County Sheriff’s Office/Training Academy. At this point, a total of 30 cars are expected to be delivered. “Every day, New Jersey first responders put their lives on the line to quickly react to emergencies involving highway accidents. Our goal is to improve their training regime,” said Frelinghuysen. “Quite possibly, this program will save lives. For that, we owe a debt of gratitude to our first responders.” -30-
11.16.2017	“Today I opposed H.R. 1 because it will hurt New Jersey families who already pay some of the highest income and property taxes in the nation! “Specifically, this measure unfairly limited the state and local tax (SALT) deduction which is vital to many families. H.R. 1 also reduced mortgage interest deductions. These changes will certainly erode property values, one of the most important financial assets for many New Jerseyans. These provisions alone could do much damage to the business climate in our state, a trend we must never tolerate, let alone encourage. “I am also opposed to the elimination of the medical expense deduction. “I had hoped that 2017 would be the year that Congress enacts permanent, pro-growth tax reform. In fact, I was looking forward to voting for legislation that creates jobs, increases paychecks, reinforces fairness and expands the economy here at home, while strengthening America’s competitiveness around the world. “However, I simply could not support the legislation due to very negative impacts it would have on so many of my fellow New Jerseyans. -30-
11.07.2017	Jobs Growing at the Port of New York and New Jersey WASHINGTON, D.C -- A recently released study indicates that container traffic at the Port of New York and New Jersey jumped 24 percent, bringing with it a corresponding increase in jobs, individual and business revenue and local, state and federal tax revenues. Other cargo sectors were increased during the study period of 2014 – 2016. One of the primary enablers of this surge in commercial activity undoubtedly is the now-completed 20-year Harbor Deepening Project, funded by the Appropriations Committee. “Our Port is the economic engine for northern New Jersey,” said Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. “Ninety percent of global trade moves by ship, so I made it one of my highest priorities in Congress to ensure the Port of New York and New Jersey, the largest on the East Coast, remains the most attractive destination for international trading partners. This study shows that our efforts are paying off for our state!” Through his work as the only New Jersey member of the Appropriations Committee and past Chairman of the Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, Frelinghuysen secured hundreds of millions of federal dollars for the Harbor Deepening Project since its authorization in 1997. By dredging the main channel to a depth of 50 feet and raising the deck on the Bayonne Bridge, the Port can accommodate the newest container ships, which sail along the U.S. East Coast now that the upgraded Panama Canal has opened to the world’s largest ships. According to the report, compiled jointly by the New York Shipping Association and the North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority, the Port accounted for nearly $8.5 billion in federal, state and local tax revenue last year and supported more than 400,000 jobs, up 20 percent over the two-year study period. Port businesses and agencies employ 229,000 workers and support another 171,000 indirect jobs. The jobs include longshoremen, truckers, shipping clerks, mechanics, warehouse workers, tug boat operators, police and inspectors, and others. In addition, the port industry was responsible for $25.7 billion in personal income and $64.8 billion in business income, up 21 percent for the period. According to the report, New Jersey accounted for the greatest number of port jobs with 200,350 and total jobs with 344,470. The state also was responsible for the bulk of the taxes generated by the port industry with nearly $7 billion in federal, state and local revenue, which included more than $2.2 billion in local and state taxes and $4.8 billion in federal taxes. “The Harbor Deepening project was a great example of how creative forward thinking and public-private partnerships can provide benefits for our region for years to come,” said Frelinghuysen. “We’re beginning to reap real rewards.” -30- Read a summary of the report here: http://nysanet.org/wp-content/uploads/PressReleaseNYSAEconomicImpactStudyV02.pdf
11.02.2017	“Now that the House Ways and Means Committee has released its proposed tax reform bill, I look forward to evaluating its details to determine the legislation’s effect on my New Jersey constituents. “As always, I invite residents of my district to let me know what they think.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) and the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Mac Thornberry (TX-13) have returned to the United States from Iraq following a weekend visit to the Central Command area of operations. Thornberry and Frelinghuysen met with key military leaders and troops. Thornberry and Frelinghuysen are charged with Congressional oversight of the United States’ efforts to defeat the terrorist threat and support countries in the region that share our values and goals. Thornberry’s panel sets policy for the Department of Defense and Frelinghuysen’s panel funds operations of the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community. The purpose of the trip was to conduct oversight and explore policy, strategy, and funding issues associated with the deployment of U.S. and Coalition forces in the region. Oversight included examination of regional dynamics, threat trends, military-to-military cooperation with coalition partners, counterterrorism efforts, U.S. force posture in the region, and resource requirements. They also visited with U.S. Marines in Beirut, Lebanon and soldiers in Baghdad, Iraq among other locations. -30-
10.30.2017	The Daily Record House Appropriations Getting the Job Done by: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) 10/30/17 The conventional wisdom is that Washington is broken. However, if one were to go looking for what actually works in Congress, one need only look to the House Committee on Appropriations. This committee, charged with providing the funding for every federal government program, agency and office, passed 28 bills this year alone. This total includes the “regular” FY 2017 and the FY 2018 appropriations bills, several stopgap “Continuing Resolutions” and two emergency disaster assistance bills to aid the victims of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. These 28 bills were developed, drafted, debated and passed between January and October of 2017, upholding Congress’ authority under the Constitution to fund our obligations at home and abroad. In essence, we completed more than two appropriations cycles in just eight months. The ultimate achievement was passage in September of all 12 of our FY ’18 appropriations bills before the end of the fiscal year on September 30. This was the first time it had been accomplished since 2004 and it was done through “regular order” with each of the bills fully debated, along with over 400 amendments. Furthermore, the deed was accomplished within just four months of receiving the details of the new President’s first budget proposal — a new congressional record. Of course, process and speed are important. But so, too, are the actual contents of these bills which contain important funding for projects in New Jersey. A prime example is the more than $900 million the committee included for eligible programs such as the Gateway project in the New Jersey-New York area. Now more than ever, it is imperative to our economic survival. While important, Gateway is just one example of provisions that will benefit New Jersey. To protect our state from emerging terrorist threats, the committee continued to fund the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which assists the New Jersey-New York Metropolitan Region with efforts to build and sustain the capabilities to prevent future 9/11s. We also doubled funding for Nonprofit Security Grants to support security enhancements for synagogues and other faith-based centers which were targeted earlier this year in a series of bomb threats. The committee also supported New Jersey Task Force 1, which responded to lower Manhattan on September 11, 2001, and performed critical work during this year’s hurricane season. In addition to providing funds for New Jersey’s military installations, Picatinny Arsenal, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, Naval Weapons Station Earle and the 177th Fighter Wing in Atlantic City, the legislation includes funding that will increase New Jersey’s military contributions. For example, the committee provided significant new funding to allow scientists and engineers at Picatinny, the DoD Joint Center of Excellence for Armaments, to accelerate their work to ensure that our weapons systems overmatch those of our adversaries. The bill also includes funding to expand production of the new KC-146 air refueling tankers that will soon be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, enhancing the future missions, and jobs, at the New Jersey base. The committee also provided full funding for the Chemical Safety Board, a program slated for elimination by the Trump Administration. We approved a $28 million increase in the Superfund hazardous waste clean-up program and targeted an additional $10 million for open space preservation from willing sellers in the New Jersey Highlands, a major source of drinking water for northern New Jersey. The committee also continued to fund the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, the Green Brook Flood Control Project, and boosted the number of disabled people who will be able to use “Frelinghuysen Rental Vouchers” to pay their rent. In fact, many programs important to New Jersey, such as Community Health Grants, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), National Institutes of Health (NIH) the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), and research and development at colleges and universities, including New Jersey Institute of Technology, Stevens Institute of Technology and others, were funded despite the President’s attempt to slash or eliminate them. At the same time, the Appropriations Committee recognizes our obligations to the next generation. Clearly, we need to reduce government spending. And we have, with bipartisan support, cut discretionary spending to levels, not seen since Fiscal Year 2008. We have come very far in just a few months: 28 bills developed, drafted, amended and passed this year alone. But we also have much work to do to complete our work on behalf of the nation and our state.
10.26.2017	“I am voting for the budget resolution to get my Appropriations bills done. I will evaluate tax reform when I see the details. My twelve bills are done and through the House. Every Member got their vote on them and I'll get mine on tax reform. The Democrats want to stop the debate on tax reform because they don't want to lower tax rates for families or for businesses. They want bigger government and more spending.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHNGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today applauded the groundbreaking of the Portal Bridge Project, part of the Gateway Program- a key passenger rail project designed to replace a century-old swing bridge over the Hackensack River in New Jersey with a high-level, fixed bridge. “Through my work as Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, I have advocated forcrucial investments in New Jersey’s passenger rail infrastructure, including the replacement of the Portal Bridge. I commend Governor Christie, the Port Authority and our federal partners for beginning work on this badly-needed project,” Frelinghuysen said. “I will continue to fight for passenger rail programs like the Portal Bridge, and the entire Gateway Program, to ensure New Jersey has safe and efficient infrastructure to support job creation and our growing economy.” The existing Portal Bridge has been in service since 1910 and has been a source of delay for train traffic in northern New Jersey. The two-track replacement, known as Portal North Bridge, will expand capacity in this critical region. According to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), the Portal Bridge will cost approximately $1.64 billion. -30-
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The U.S. House today passed legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) to provide $36.5 billion in emergency funding for hurricane and wildfire relief and recovery (H.R. 2266) on a vote of 353-69. The bill will now move to the Senate for approval. The legislation fully funds the funding requests submitted to Congress from the Administration. It includes $18.7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), $576.5 million for wildfire efforts, and $16 billion for debt relief for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which now needs additional funds to make necessary insurance claims payments to individuals. In addition, the bill includes a provision for the Disaster Nutrition Assistance Program (DNAP) that enables low-income residents in Puerto Rico to receive the same emergency nutrition assistance that other hurricane-affected states already receive. The legislation also includes $4.9 billion for Community Disaster Loans (CDL) to help address local government challenges in the near term by providing funding for municipal service such as police and fire protection, trash collection and the operation of local schools. “Millions of Americans have had their lives disrupted by destructive hurricanes and by raging wildfires in the West, said Frelinghuysen, Appropriations Committee Chairman, “We will continue to be with them every step of the way with federal support they will need throughout this recovery process. “There is clearly massive, unprecedented damage, and more funding is necessary to continue response and recovery efforts and to help these communities rebuild. These emergency funds will address urgent, short-term, immediate priorities and provides assistance that will help our fellow Americans in their time of greatest need. “We know this will be a long process, and this will certainly not be all that is required over the long term. But this Congress will work with the White House and state and local governments to ensure that assistance will be available. “I now urge my Senate colleagues to approve this legislation as soon as possible, so these funds can be used immediately for those families and communities that need it most." The text of the legislation can be found here:http://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20171009/HR____SUPP.pdf
10.10.2017	The Record Opinion: What Donald Trump should be saying to the world By: Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen 10/10/17 Reaction to President Donald Trump's recent address to the U.N. General Assembly continues to ripple across the globe. Of course, much of his “America First" message was actually directed at our adversaries. But regardless of the intended target audience, it is very clear that we have much work to do to convince the world that America is not actually stepping back from its historical leadership role. During my recent travels across North Africa and Southeast Asia, I met with foreign leaders eager for constructive engagement with “official” Washington and, specifically, the new administration. Many were grateful for a congressional visit to show support for their efforts toward democratization. Our own State Department embassy’s “teams” welcomed our delegation to counter-balance fears of growing American isolationism. It is no secret that this administration is attempting to change our foreign policy approach to the world – friends and foes alike. Under James Mattis, Secretary of Defense, the administration is beginning the long-delayed process of rebuilding our Armed Forces by accelerating research and development on new armaments and the procurement of new weapons systems including additional modern warships, aircraft, missiles and cyber capabilities. This effort is imperative if we are to meet a range of challenges – new and old – to our military preeminence. However, if we are to protect and enhance our national security, we need more than a military-heavy approach, and it is no secret that we are not investing in the “soft power” of diplomacy. This case in point is illustrated by the president’s proposed 33 percent cut to the State Department’s budget in his May 23 budget and additional talk of implementing “efficiencies” and “consolidation” of departmental, operations and staff. The House Appropriations Committee has attempted to moderate these unwise proposals. We understand the administration’s desire to encourage more burden sharing by our allies. Assuming this effort is bound to falter, we cannot afford unilateral diplomatic disarmament! Ceding the field militarily, economically and diplomatically to China or Russia or Iran today will only result in increased fiscal and defense costs tomorrow. Our military leaders frequently remind us that the family is the backbone of our military strength. The same must be said for our Foreign Service, which should be expanded, enhanced, supported and protected to allow our Foreign Service officers to conduct their vital duties for us around the world. We need more diplomacy, added visits by senior U.S. government officials, greater involvement by the Agency for International Development (USAID) and other federal agencies, more support for hardworking non-governmental agencies (NGOs) and more military-to-military engagement in North Africa, and places like Myanmar, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. Yes, “hard power” is essential. But, after all, it is the “soft power” of diplomacy and engagement that will determine if, as the president said at the U.N., “we lift the world to new heights, or let it fall into a valley of disrepair.” Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-Harding Township, represents the 11th congressional district and is chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is conducting aggressive 24-hour search and rescue and recovery operations, with an array of U.S. government partners, in an ongoing effort to provide immediate assistance to the residents of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands as they recover from successive Hurricanes Irma and Maria, reported U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “The personal accounts and pictures coming out of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are heartbreaking as the residents of these two territories struggle in the aftermath of two colossal storms,” said Frelinghuysen. “Congress will continue to work with the Administration to make sure that our fellow Americans get every resource they need as soon as possible.” According to FEMA, the top priority of the federal government is continuing to provide life sustaining resources to the islands, bringing additional essential commodities in and restoring power at hospitals, ports, airports, and other critical facilities. FEMA, working in coordination with its federal partners and an array of non-profit organizations, has already provided more than four million meals, six million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 70,000 emergency roofing kits to the two areas since Hurricane Maria’s landfall. Thousands of federal staff, including more than 600 FEMA personnel, are on the ground in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands supporting response and recovery operations. The federal government is working with its interagency, non-profit partners and faith-based charities to support the transportation and delivery of fuel, based on priorities identified by emergency personnel on the ground in the islands. The federal support for fuel transportation includes air and sea logistical support by the Defense Logistics Agency, U.S. Northern Command, the U.S. Navy, and U.S. Coast Guard, in coordination with the private sector. Examples of additional federal support: • The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) has deployed 11 ships and over 100 aircraft to assist operations. Personnel continue to deliver critical FEMA relief supplies. A mobile communications team arrived in Puerto Rico to help improve communications across the storm-impacted area. • The Department of Defense has over 2,600 personnel in the Caribbean. The USS Oak Hill and the USS Kearsarge Amphibious Ready Group have conducted medical evacuations and 123 airlifts and delivered 22,200 pounds of relief supplies and cargo to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Army’s 602nd Area Support Medical Company and a Civil Authority Information Support Element have been deployed to the Virgin Islands. • The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an order on September 24 authorizing FEMA and DoD to install and operate temporary water treatment units to provide clean water in the U.S. Virgin Islands to address concerns about a lack of clean water supplies. • Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the DOD conducted medical evacuations for more than 150 patients from the islands to the continental United States. Medical evacuations from the islands will continue. • The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) deployed debris experts to assist FEMA with debris management strategies in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. Additionally, USACE has 86 generators on hand in Puerto Rico and St. Thomas with more than 186 additional generators en route. USACE and other supporting agencies have completed nine temporary power installs on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. • Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) operations personnel are onsite in St. Thomas to evaluate, fix, and install FAA equipment, in support of air traffic control operations. • The National Guard Bureau (NGB) has thousands of Guard members on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands taking part in security and support operations. The Air Guard is focused on transporting food, water, and communications equipment. • Customs and Border Protection airplanes and helicopters are assisting with conducting damage assessment and search and rescue missions. • More than 180 Federal Law Enforcement Officers are in San Juan and the Virgin Islands supporting search and rescue and medical teams. "The people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands remain in our thoughts. There is no doubt that the challenges they face are truly tremendous. While significant progress has been made, full recovery will be very long and very trying. But the people should be reassured that they are entitled to equal treatment under the law and the Appropriations Committee and House Leadership will assure that every step of the way." “The Appropriations Committee plays a central role in ensuring that the federal government provides the help the victims need. It is important to reassure residents and local officials that that we will help them rebuild.” -30-
09.21.2017	HOUSTON, TEXAS – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, has completed a two-day fact finding trip to storm-ravaged areas of Florida and Texas with the Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan. The delegation visited Jacksonville and Miami and took an aerial tour of the Florida Keys before visiting the Houston metropolitan area to assess Hurricane Irma and Harvey recovery efforts in order to ensure that funding is readily available to meet the needs of the victims of these disasters. “These were distinctly different storms but they both shattered the lives of many of our fellow Americans. Homes are destroyed. Businesses are heavily damaged. The power remains out in many areas. The Florida Keys are particularly devastated,” said Frelinghuysen. “The hundreds of thousands of victims of these destructive storms are still in the early stages of what will be a long and difficult recovery from Harvey and Irma, and now, Maria in Puerto Rico. We will work together to make sure that the necessary federal resources are in place for the rebuilding. We will be there every step of the way.” The delegation received multiple briefings in Florida and Houston from federal, state, and local officials including the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). Frelinghuysen’s Appropriations Committee plays a central role in ensuring that the federal government provides the help the victims need. “It was important for me to be on the ground to listen and learn and to reassure residents and local officials that that we will help them rebuild. This month, the Congress quickly passed a bipartisan bill that Frelinghuysen developed to replenish funds in the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund and the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. “I also appreciated the opportunity to thank personally the first responders and the military members who risked their own safety to rescue so many victims. These courageous and dedicated individuals continue to be vital to this recovery.” -30-
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a package of eight appropriations bills (H.R. 3354) to provide funding for the federal government for the 2018 fiscal year, including countless programs of importance to New Jersey. The bill, also known as the “Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act,” was passed by a vote of 211-198. Today’s action completes initial House consideration of all 12 annual Appropriations bills, completed before the September 30 deadline. “The legislation approved by the House today funds important domestic and international programs that help our economy grow, keep our people safe and preserve America’s leadership across the globe,” said Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “Just like the Defense, Energy and Water Development and Military Construction/VA bills passed in July, these bills contain important funding for programs important to New Jersey, such as the more than $900 million included in the Transportation Appropriations section of H.R. 3354 for eligible programs such as the Gateway program in the New Jersey-New York area. “Now more than ever, it is imperative to our economy and to our quality of life to have safe and well-functioning transportation infrastructure. It is not an overstatement to say that Gateway is critical to our nation’s economy. The Northeast Corridor region, encompassing over 50 million people from Washington D.C. to Boston, produces approximately $3 trillion in economic output, equal to 20% of our national Gross Domestic Product. Safe and reliable passenger rail travel through New Jersey and New York City is essential to that economic productivity.” Funding contained in H.R. 3354 for other New Jersey priorities include: The Homeland Security Section includes: The Urban Area Security Initiative, which assists high-threat, high-density Urban Areas like the New Jersey-New York Metropolitan Region in efforts to build and sustain the capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism, is funded at $635 million. The Nonprofit Security Grant Program, is increased by $25 million to a total of $50 million. Nonprofit Security Grants provide funding support for target hardening and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack. Synagogues, Jewish Community Centers and schools, including several in New Jersey, were targeted earlier this year in a series of bomb threats. The bill also includes $690 million for Firefighter Assistance Grants and $350 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants in our communities. The Interior Section of H.R. 3354: Includes full funding for the Chemical Safety Board, a program slated for elimination by the Administration; Under this legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is funded at $7.53 billion, which is $528 million below the enacted FY17 level but $1.88 billion above the Administration’s recent budget request. A $28 million increase in the Superfund hazardous waste clean-up program. New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state. The Land and Water Conservation Fund, slated for a significant reduction under the Administration’s budget, is funded at $275 million. $10 million has been authorized for open space preservation from willing sellers under Frelinghuysen’s Highlands Conservation Act. Preserving the New Jersey Highlands is a major federal priority. A major source of drinking water and in the most densely populated metropolitan area in the country, the Highlands is a critical area in need of protection. The National Heritage Areas program, which the Administration had proposed to eliminate, is level-funded at $19.8 million including support for the Crossroads of the American Revolution Area in New Jersey. The National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities are both funded at $145 million. The Administration had proposed to terminate both programs in its budget request. The State-Foreign Operations Appropriations section: Includes a funding limitation with respect to diplomatic facilities in Cuba (with certain exceptions) until the President determines and reports to the Committee that the requirements specified in section 205 of the LIBERTAD Act have been met. The bill includes an explicit reference to the requirement regarding the extradition of persons sought by the U.S. Department of Justice for crimes committed in the U.S. Report language notes that Joanne Chesimard, convicted in the 1973 murder of a New Jersey State Trooper, is among those individuals being sought for extradition. The Labor-Health and Human Services section: National Institutes of Health - NIH funding is increased by $1.1 billion for total of $35.2 billion, which supports research at Universities throughout New Jersey, such as 2017 grantees St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, Atlantic Health System in Morristown, Kessler Foundation in West Orange. The bill contains a targeted increase of $300 million at NIH to support Cancer Moonshot which increases support for New Jersey’s only National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey. Maintains the robust funding level for programs to address the opioid abuse crisis, felt by communities throughout New Jersey. Other programs: Head Start - The bill provides $9.3 billion for Head Start, a $22 million increase, supporting our local Head Start programs. Pell Grants - The bill maintains the current “year round” Pell Grant award at $5,920 to assist students attending colleges and universities throughout our state. Senior Nutrition Programs - $838 million for senior nutrition programs, of which $227 million is for the Meals on Wheels. Community Health Centers - funding of $1.4 billion, an increase of $900k above FY17 and $2.8 million above President’s budget request. These health centers, such as the Zufall Health Centers in Dover, Morristown, West Orange, Flemington, Hackettstown, Newton, Somerville, provide care to underserved communities in every county of New Jersey including Essex, Morris, Passaic, and Sussex. The Financial Service-General Government Appropriations section: Provides $848 million for the Small Business Administration (SBA) to help promote opportunities for American small businesses, including those in New Jersey, to begin, grow, and prosper. A portion of the $120 million of the funding in this section will go to the New Jersey Small Business Development Centers (NJSBDC) network which is committed to guiding established small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs to create and expand their business enterprises. The NJSBDC network includes 12 centers across New Jersey: - NJSBDC at William Paterson University (Passaic County), NJSBDC at Rutgers Newark (Essex County) and - NJSBDC of Northwest Jersey (Morris and Sussex County). Women Small Business Centers (SBA) – the bill includes $17 million in funding to support organizations like the Women’s Center for Entrepreneurship [WCEC] in Chatham, Morris County to help elevate women to business success through education, counseling, mentoring and entrepreneurial training. The Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations section includes $527.5 million in funding for Violence Against Women Act programs which is $45.5 million above FY 2017. VAWA grants are critical to the state of NJ to support services and programs in response to domestic violence and sexual assault. VAWA grants provide annual support to organizations like the Jersey Battered Women Service and to support the Morris Family Justice center which since its opening last year has helped over 500 clients. The CJS section also provides $49 million to promote progress in reducing the backlog of untested sexual assault kits. These grants provide resources and improve processes to test kits, provide training to law enforcement personnel while providing justice and resolution to the victims of sexual assault. H.R. 3354 totals $1.2 trillion, including $87 billion in funding for Global War on Terror. “These investments are made responsibly. In each of the bills within this package, we have found savings, gotten rid of waste, fraud and duplication, and increased oversight to ensure that no taxpayer dollar is misspent,” said Frelinghuysen. -30-
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed House Resolution 502, legislation introduced by Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) to provide emergency funding to address rescue, response and recovery needs for the victims of Hurricane Harvey. “Harvey caused catastrophic damage across Texas and Louisiana with tens of thousands of people now in shelters. Hundreds of thousands of homes damaged. Businesses destroyed,” said Frelinghuysen. “The funds in this bill will be used to continue life-saving recovery missions, help start housing repair, and provide timely low-interest loans to businesses and homeowners to start the rebuilding process. The needs of the struggling people along the Gulf Coast are immediate and our response has been rapid.” House passage came just five days after the Committee received a detailed request from the Trump Administration. H.Res. 502 contains the full amount requested by the Administration – totaling $7.85 billion in emergency funding, including $7.4 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF). This will ensure FEMA can meet all current needs for response and recovery efforts, while also being prepared for any additional disasters that may arise. The measure also includes $450 million to support the Small Business Administration's disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners begin to rebuild. “It is clear that this recovery will be a long haul – and I want to assure Harvey’s victims that we will be there for them every step of the way. My committee will continue to keep close watch and will remain in contact with the Administration to ensure that funding is available for recovery today and months down the road. "Of course, our thoughts and prayers today go out to the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Florida and other southeastern states that will soon deal with the effects of Hurricane Irma. In their time of greatest need, we will come through for them as well." H. Con. Res. 502, passed by the House 419-3, must now be approved by the U.S. Senate. -30-
09.05.2017	“The ‘Dreamers’ were brought to this country through no fault of their own and, for many, this is the only country they have ever known. However, even these compelling facts do not allow us to ignore the fact that President Obama overstepped his authority and attempted to change immigration law without the approval of Congress. “We should not punish these innocent young people. In my view, Congress must debate and approve legislation to “fix” this policy asap!” -30-
09.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) is providing significant additional security funding to New Jersey and various organizations, U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announced today. The funding is being made available through several competitive grant programs. “These grants are evidence that our Appropriations Committee takes its role in safeguarding our homeland and protecting our citizens seriously,” said Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the Committee. “Through our annual Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we fully support our men and women on the frontline lines who work tirelessly to keep us safe while providing the necessary funding for critical technology and local programs that enhance our capabilities and preparedness.” Specifically, FEMA is providing: $19.7M in port security grants to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and other first responder organizations in both states. $21.8M in total to New Jersey for transit security grants, including: $16.3M for New Jersey Transit; $2.3M for Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; $3.2M for Delaware River Port Authority; In addition, non-profit organizations in the New Jersey/New York Urban Area will receive $3.8M for infrastructure “hardening” and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack. Synagogues, Jewish Community Centers and schools, including several in New Jersey, were targeted earlier this year in a series of bomb threats. “Hatred that we call anti-Semitism has become epidemic in 2017. While we must continue to work every day to stop it, these grants allow non-profit organizations to help protect themselves,” said Frelinghuysen. In its most recent FY 2018 Homeland Security funding bill, Frelinghuysen’s Appropriations Committee doubled the funding for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program to a total of $50 million. The House of Representatives is currently scheduled to debate and approve the FY ’18 Homeland Security Appropriations bill and seven other appropriations bill in the next few weeks. The Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) provides funds to eligible publicly owned operators of public transportation systems to protect critical surface transportation infrastructure and the traveling public from acts of terrorism and to increase the resilience of transit infrastructure. The Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) covers allowable costs used to support the “Prevention, Protection, Mitigation, Response, and Recovery” missions of our nation’s maritime ports. -30-
08.30.2017	Daily Record: Frelinghuysen helps blaze 9/11 trail in Randolph
08.19.2017	End the Hatred with Words that Unite, Not Divide Many hateful things were said and done in Charlottesville, Virginia, this past weekend. You know the facts: following Friday and Saturday rallies by neo-Nazis, KKK members, white supremacists and other racist fringe groups, a 32-year old woman was killed when a man drove his car into a crowd of people who had arrived to confront their bigotry. 19 other people were injured. These events – and the incomprehensible reaction to them from the White House - have correctly dominated the news this week. I condemn the President’s repeated attempts to evenly distribute blame for clashes between white nationalists and the demonstrators who oppose them. To be clear, the President’s assertion that there were two legitimate “sides” in Charlottesville last weekend is flatly wrong. There can be no comparison – no equivalency - between white supremacists, KKK members and other racist fringe groups and those who showed up to challenge their bigotry, racism and anti-semitism. Rather than employing words that divide us, Donald Trump must recognize that we are one people: the American people. The disgusting displays of hatred and bigotry on display in Charlottesville dishonor the millions of men and women of all races, religions and creeds who fought and died to make our country what it is today.
08.15.2017	The hatred and violence by white supremacists in Charlottesville must be condemned. There is no comparison between those on the side of bigotry and hate, and those who manned the barriers to protest them! The views and actions of white supremacists have no place in America.
07.28.2017	
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House of Representatives today approved the Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 3219) to provide funding for national security for the 2018 fiscal year. The bill, also known as the “Make America Secure Appropriations Act”, was passed on a vote of 235-192. The bill includes the full legislation and funding for four of the 12 annual Appropriations bills, including: the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Energy and Water, and the Legislative Branch Appropriations bills. This funding extends through the entire 2018 fiscal year. “After years of unnecessary and unwise cuts to our national security, this legislation represents the next step forward in rebuilding our military and ensuring our nation is ready to meet any current or emerging threat,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “This bill will provide our forces with the resources they need to do their jobs and ensure the success of our missions. As Chairman, I am pleased to support New Jersey’s historic role to improve the lethality, effectiveness and safety of our troops.” For example, the Department of Defense section of H.R. 3192 provides over $130 million in funding to the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County as a follow-up to a recent study conducted under the auspices of the Office of Secretary of Defense. “The OSD study identified specific areas of concern including loss of weapons range overmatch, effects of enemy countermeasures to GPS, and the proliferation of low-cost commercially available unmanned aerial systems. This bill provides the funding to allow the experts at Picatinny to advance the capabilities of our Armed Forces as soon as possible.” In addition to providing operations and maintenance monies for every New Jersey military installation, the bill also provides $2.4 billion for another 15 KC-46 aircraft – the new airborne tanker that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. In addition to providing the highest level of funding in history for veterans medical care, the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs section of the package includes funding to help Joint Base-McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst prepare for the arrival of the Air Force’s new KC-46 tanker, providing money for a new hangar, apron and fire hydrant modifications, a maintenance training facility, “boom operator” and fuselage trainers and equipment storage building. In addition, the legislation provides $11.6 million for apron and taxiway improvements at JBMDL. “The funding for New Jersey’s Joint Base is an endorsement of the installation’s current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital,” Frelinghuysen said. The Energy and Water section of H.R. 3192 includes funding for: • New Jersey Back Bay Study ($449k) to continue research to bring relief from back bay flooding. The New Jersey Back Bay (NJBB) is located behind the New Jersey barrier islands of Monmouth, Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May Counties and includes the set of interconnected water bodies and coastal lakes that are separated from the Atlantic Ocean; • Green Brook Sub-Basin ($20 million) to continue construction on a series of channel modifications, levees with limited floodwalls and dry detention basins. • Funding is also provided in the bill for the Passaic River Flood Warning System, which assists the public and emergency managers forecast and prepare for riverine flood events; • Additional Operating and Maintenance (O&M) funding is provided for a number of projects throughout New Jersey to keep our waterways dredged and our beaches replenished. Funding for the Office of Science is $5.4 billion, $919 million above the President’s request. The money is used to keep the national laboratories, including Princeton Plasma Physics Lab, at the forefront of global scientific discovery. Frelinghuysen noted that the report to accompany the FY 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill highlights the significance of the 2016 completed New Jersey/New York Harbor Deepening project, declaring , “This project of national significance is an example of how the (Army) Corps and its partners can work together to enhance our national economy.” For a bill overview, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/national_security_package_one_pager.pdf -30-
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announced today the kick-off of the annual “Congressional App Challenge,” which officially opens July 26. This competition is open to all high school students in the 11th Congressional district. “The Congressional App Challenge gives New Jersey students a national platform to display their skills as coders and engineers,” Frelinghuysen said. “In order to flourish in the rapidly evolving technology economy, we must ensure our students are exposed to the importance of STEM education and real world applications of their knowledge.” The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Congressional App Challenge will last from July 26 through November 1, 2017, and is open to all U.S. high school students in participating districts. Challenge participants are invited, either as individuals or as teams, to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. A panel of local computer science professionals will judge the apps, and the winners in each district will have the honor of being recognized by their Congressional representative. “Nothing is more important to our Nation’s continued economic strength than developing the talents and expertise of students interested in STEM fields,” Frelinghuysen continued. “I look forward to viewing the submissions of students from New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District and urge all students to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity.” More information, including a full list of rules, can be found here: http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/.
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Labor-Health and Human Services Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee provides funding for many programs important to New Jersey and New Jerseyans. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. “This bill reflects Republican priorities to cut spending and focus investments in programs our people need the most – public health and medical research, biodefense, fundamental education, and proven programs that increase job growth, for example,” House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “It also includes important provisions to stop government overreach.” National Institutes of Health - NIH funding is increased by $1.1 billion for total of $35.2 billion, which supports research at Universities throughout New Jersey, such as 2017 grantees St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, Atlantic Health System in Morristown, Kessler Foundation in West Orange. The bill contains a targeted increase of $300 million at NIH to support Cancer Moonshot which increases support for New Jersey’s only National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey. Specifically, the bill provides increases for additional key research initiatives: $1.8 billion, a $400 million increase, for Alzheimer’s disease research, $336 million, a $76 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative, $400 million, a $80 million increase, for the All of Us research initiative (formerly called the Precision Medicine Initiative), $10 million, an $8 million increase, for regenerative medicine research, and $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative. Opioids - The bill maintains the robust funding level for programs to address the opioid abuse crisis, felt by communities throughout New Jersey. Specifically, the bill includes $747 million to address opioid and heroin abuse, which is the same as FY17 and $44 million above the request. This amount includes $500 million for the state response grants authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act, along with funding for programs authorized in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. Head Start - The bill provides $9.3 billion for Head Start, a $22 million increase, supporting our local Head Start programs. Pell Grants - The bill maintains the current “year round” Pell Grant award at $5,920 to assist students attending colleges and universities throughout our state. Senior Nutrition Programs- $838 million for senior nutrition programs, of which $227 million is for the Meals on Wheels. Community Health Centers- funding of $1.4 billion, an increase of $900k above FY17 and $2.8 million above President’s budget request. These health centers, such as the Zufall Health Centers in Dover, Morristown, West Orange, Flemington, Hackettstown, Newton, Somerville, provide care to underserved communities in every county of New Jersey including Essex, Morris, Passaic, and Sussex. Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)– Level funded from FY17 and $3.3 billion above request. This vital program helps low income families afford heating and energy services. The President's budget sought to eliminate this program. Department of Labor (DOL) – The bill provides a total of $10.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for DOL The bill provides robust funding for job training programs and sufficient funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions, while reducing lower-priority and underperforming programs. Employment Training Administration (ETA) – The legislation provides ETA with $8.5 billion – a decrease of $1.5 billion below last year’s enacted level and $848 million above the President’s budget request. This total includes $2.6 billion for job training grants, $84.5 million for YouthBuild, and $790 million in mandatory appropriations for Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances, which provides job training programs for workers who lose their jobs as a result of international trade. Job Corps – The bill provides $1.69 billion for Job Corps, a decrease of $16 million over the 2017 enacted level and $239.7 million above the President’s budget request. Funding is included in addition to amounts provided in fiscal year 2017 for physical facility safety and security improvements. In total, the draft bill includes $156 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $5 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The bill cuts funding to lower-priority programs, while targeting investments in medical research, public health, biodefense, and important activities that help boost job growth. The legislation also includes several provisions to rein in unnecessary regulations.
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 State-Foreign Operations Appropriations bill has been approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The bill will target funding to U.S. foreign policy priorities, including critical diplomatic and security missions to increase stability and security. It also contains funding to bolster U.S. allies and key partners in strategic and challenging areas of the world, and provides critical humanitarian aid. In addition, the legislation contains strong oversight measures and reductions to nonessential or lower-priority international programs to protect and save taxpayer dollars. “In the wake of ever growing international threats and challenges – such as the recent North Korean missile test – it is more important than ever for the U.S. to invest in robust diplomatic and global efforts to ensure stability around the world and the security of our nation and our allies,” Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “The world is a better place when the United States leads and the funding in this legislation allows us to conduct strong diplomatic and economic development efforts. This ‘soft power,’ along with the ‘hard power’ provided by our military is essential.” Partners and Allies -In addition, the legislation provides security assistance to key allies and partners. The bill fully funds the $3.1 billion commitment to allow Israel to maintain its qualitative military edge over its neighbors. The bill continues strong support for Foreign Military Financing programs for Ukraine, Georgia, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia – at or above current levels. The bill maintains robust funding for counter-narcotics and law enforcement efforts in Colombia, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. The legislation also fully funds the $58 million request to address international organized crime and increases funding to combat cyber-crime. International Security Assistance– The bill provides a total of $8.8 billion in funding for international security assistance. This is $614 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Funds are included for international narcotics control and law enforcement activities, antiterrorism programs, nonproliferation programs, peacekeeping operations, and other critical international security efforts. Antiterrorism programs that assist in the fight to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other terrorist groups are funded at $358 million. The bill also provides funding to fight terrorist financing networks and bolster border and airport security. United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Operations– The bill contains $1.5 billion for USAID and the USAID Office of Inspector General. This funding is targeted to activities to provide stability in volatile regions and enhance U.S. presence in critical and strategic areas. Cuba – The bill includes a funding limitation with respect to diplomatic facilities in Cuba (with certain exceptions) until the President determines and reports to the Committee that the requirements specified in section 205 of the LIBERTAD Act have been met. The bill includes an explicit reference to the requirement regarding the extradition of persons sought by the U.S. Department of Justice for crimes committed in the U.S. Additionally, report language notes that Joanne Chesimard, convicted in the 1973 murder of a New Jersey State Trooper, is among those individuals being sought for extradition. Increased Oversight, Savings, and Policy Provisions– The bill continues robust requirements to increase program oversight, improve management, and tighten the reins on taxpayer dollars. Some of these provisions include: Countering Russian Influence and Aggression – The bill maintains the fiscal year 2017 level for Ukraine and Georgia to respond to Russian aggression and provides $105,000,000 for Countering Russian Influence Fund. Syria – The bill allows funding to be used for non-lethal aid. Oversight and vetting of recipients is required. Egypt – The bill provides economic and security assistance if Egypt sustains its strategic partnership with the United States and adheres to the peace treaty with Israel. Afghanistan – The recommendation includes conditions on assistance for transparency, accountability, and prohibits funds for new major infrastructure projects. Palestinian Authority –The bill maintains strong restrictions on the Palestinian Authority (PA), including a requirement to reduce funds to the Palestinians by an amount equivalent to that expended by the PA as payments to prisoners that committed acts of terrorism, prohibiting funding if there is a Palestinian government formed through an agreement with Hamas or if the Palestinians are not acting to counter incitement. The bill also includes a provision restricting Palestinians’ representation in the U.S. if they initiate or actively support an International Criminal Court investigation against Israel. “Lautenberg Amendment” – The bill extends the so-called “Lautenberg provision”, which lowers the evidentiary standard for certain refugee applicants from the former Soviet Union and Iran, subject to religious persecution, including Iranian Jews and Christians. Guantanamo Bay –The bill requires a notification to Congress if the State Department commits to providing assistance to foreign governments that accept Guantanamo detainees. Additionally, the bill requires regular reporting to Congress on any negotiations related to detainee transfers. UN Reform –The bill provides no funding for the Human Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines that it is in the national security interest and the Council stops its anti-Israel agenda. The bill also prohibits funds for UN organizations headed by countries that support terrorism, and withholds a portion of funds for the UN and international organizations until transparency and accountability measures are taken. North Africa Strategy Requirement–The bill includes a new provision requiring the Secretary of State to submit a strategy for United States engagement in North Africa, including information on how diplomatic engagement and assistance will be prioritized for the region. In total, the bill provides $47.4 billion in both regular discretionary and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. This total is $10 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, when counting additional funds provided in the Security Assistance Appropriations Act of 2017. Within this total, OCO funding totals $12 billion, which supports operations and assistance in areas of conflict, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. -30-
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations bill passed by the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee secures funding for New Jersey and protects other programs important to New Jersey communities. The bill targets critical programs such as aviation security, border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, natural disaster response, and efforts to stop the smuggling of drugs and people into the U.S. The legislation also includes $1.6 billion for physical barrier construction along the U.S. southern border. To respond to both natural and man-made disasters, the bill funds the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster relief account (DRF) at $7.3 billion. This is the fund that was tapped for New Jersey after Superstorm Sandy and Tropical Storm Irene. The legislation also includes $2.7 billion for several FEMA grant programs: The Urban Area Security Initiative, which assists high-threat, high-density Urban Areas like the New Jersey-New York Metropolitan Region in efforts to build and sustain the capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism, is funded at $630 million in the bill. A component of UASI, the Nonprofit Security Grant Program, is increased by $25 million to a total of $50 million. Nonprofit Security Grants provide funding support for target hardening and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of a terrorist attack. Synagogues, Jewish Community Centers and schools, including several in New Jersey, were targeted recently in a series of bomb threats. The bill also includes $690 million for Firefighter Assistance Grants and $350 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants in our communities. Urban Search and Rescue– $35.1 million for Urban Search and Rescue, which funds 28 USR Teams including New Jersey Task Force 1 (NJ-TF 1). Science & Technology Directorate (S&T) University Programs– The legislation includes $40.5 million in funding for University Programs. This funding will be provided to all 10 DHS Centers of Excellence, including the Maritime Security Center (MSC) at Stevens Institute of Technology (SIT). The MSC conducts innovative research, develops new tools and technologies and provides relevant maritime security-focused educational programs to enhance our nation's maritime domain awareness, the resiliency of our Marine Transportation System (MTS) and the technical skills of our current and prospective maritime security workforce. Cybersecurity and Protection of Communications– To combat increasingly dangerous and frequent cyber-attacks, the bill includes a total of $1.8 billion for the National Protection and Programs Directorate to enhance critical infrastructure and prevent hacking. Within this amount, $1.37 billion is provided to help secure civilian (.gov) networks, detect and prevent cyber-attacks and foreign espionage, and enhance and modernize emergency communications. Funds are also included to enhance emergency communications capabilities. Coast Guard – The United States Coast Guard (USCG) patrols New Jersey waterways and shoreline, interdicts drug shipments and responds to accidents. The bill contains $10.5 billion for the USCG – an increase of $31.7 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The bill provides for a 2.1 percent military pay increase, and targets resources to improve readiness. Transportation Security Administration (TSA)– While rejecting higher TSA aviation and passenger security fees, the bill provides $7.2 billion for TSA, including full funding ($3.2 billion) for Transportation Security Officers, privatized screening operations, and passenger and baggage screening equipment, in order to speed processing and wait times for travelers and cargo. This bill also includes $151.8 million to hire, train, and deploy 1,047 canine teams to further expedite processing time. “The Appropriations Committee takes its role in safeguarding our homeland and protecting our citizens seriously. Globalization, cyber-security, and terrorism activities are changing our way of life and we need to change with it,” said Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) “This bill fully supports our men and women on the frontline lines who work tirelessly to keep us safe. The bill also provides the necessary funding for critical technology and physical barriers to secure our borders. It is a balanced approach that enhances our capabilities and preparedness.” In total, the FY 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations bill directs $44.3 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, an increase of $1.9 billion above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. In addition, the bill includes $6.8 billion – the same as the President’s request – for disaster relief and emergency response activities through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). -30-
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Interior Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee secures funding for programs important to New Jersey organizations and communities. The legislation includes funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forest Service, and various independent and related agencies. “This legislation responsibly supports the agencies and offices we rely on to preserve our natural resources for future generations and prioritizes our limited funding to programs that protect environmental safety i.e. the Chemical Safety Board,” said Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). “Further, the Committee’s vigorous oversight has identified opportunities to rein in the federal bureaucracy and to stop many harmful and unnecessary regulations that destroy economic opportunity and hinder job creation.” Under this legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is funded at $7.53 billion, which is $528 million below the enacted FY17 level but $1.88 billion above the Administration’s recent budget request. This funding level is key to sustaining programs important to New Jersey such as the Superfund hazardous waste clean-up program. In fact, in this legislation, Superfund is slated to receive a $28 million increase from current levels. New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state. EPA funding will also support the BEACH Grant program that is so important along the Jersey Shore. BEACH Act grants go to coastal states to develop and implement water quality monitoring and notification programs to ensure safe swimming, wading and boating conditions. Under the bill, the EPA will continue to support other important programs like EnergySTAR. The Land and Water Conservation Fund, slated for a significant reduction under the Administration’s budget, is funded at $275 million. $10 million has been authorized for open space preservation from willing sellers under Frelinghuysen’s Highlands Conservation Act. Preserving the New Jersey Highlands is a major federal priority. A major source of drinking water and in the most densely populated metropolitan area in the country, the Highlands is a critical area in need of protection. The Committee also directs $5 million in funding to begin implementation of the Delaware River Basin Conservation Act signed into law in 2016 to coordinate existing public and private efforts to protect water quality, improve flood control, manage fish stocks, and enhance public access in the region including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the Delaware Bay. The National Heritage Areas program, which the Administration had proposed to eliminate, is level-funded at $19.8 million including support for the Crossroads of the American Revolution Area in New Jersey. National Park Servicein the bill is $2.9 billion, $65 million below the FY17 enacted but $314 million above the Administration’s budget request. The legislation supports the Morristown National Historical Park and the Edison National Historical Park and all other national parks. The bill targeted increases for park operation and maintenance backlog needs. Other programs important to New Jersey – the Historic Preservation Fund, State and Tribal Wildlife Grants, and the North American Wetlands Conservation Fund – were funded in the measure. The National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanitiesare both funded at $145 million. The Administration had proposed to terminate both programs in its budget request. The Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB), which the Administration had proposed to eliminate,is level-funded at $11 million. +++ In total, the bill provides $31.4 billion, $824 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $4.3 billion above the President’s budget request. These funds are targeted to important investments in the nation’s natural resources, including $3.4 billion for the Department of the Interior and U.S. Forest Service to prevent and combat devastating wildfires. The legislation also contains several policy provisions to rein in harmful and unnecessary regulations at the EPA and other agencies. -30-
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Calling it a “major step toward rebuilding our military,” U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today supported passage in the House of the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The companion bill to the annual Defense Appropriations bill, the NDAA was approved by the House today by a bipartisan vote of 344-81. “This year’s bill repairs and rebuilds our military. It provides for our troops and their families and helps ensure that our men and women in uniform are fully trained, equipped, and supported,” said Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. “Our Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, has correctly made readiness and modernization of our forces his top priorities. Today, we have the oldest Air Force in our history, one of the smallest Navy fleets in recent memory and an Army and a Marine Corps that need to grow. On top of these facts, we have too many aircraft that cannot fly, too many ships that cannot sail and too many troops who cannot deploy to the battlefield. At the same time, many new threats are emerging.” He continued: “In recent years, we have been just getting by - asking more and more of those who serve. We cannot keep piling missions on our service members without ensuring they have all they need to succeed.” In tandem, the FY 2018 NDAA and Defense Appropriations bill begin “a much-needed rebuilding of our military after a half-decade of cuts” and at the same time the military remained in constant combat. The FY 2018 Defense Appropriations bill passed the House Committee on Appropriations last month. “Congress's most important constitutional duty is to 'provide for the common defense.' These two bills allow us to meet that responsibility,” said Frelinghuysen, the former Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. -30-
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today protects programs important to New Jersey communities. The bill funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. “As we see on the news nearly every day, our nation is facing increased threats here at home. Federal law enforcement is essential to fighting these threats, protecting our people, and making sure that those who do harm are brought to justice. This bill increases funding for law enforcement – making sure they have the resources they need to fight crime and terrorism,” Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “In addition, the bill includes important investments to boost U.S. scientific innovation that will maintain our nation’s status as a global leader.” The bill supports many programs important to New Jersey: Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Grants– the FY 2018 bill includes $527 million in funding for Violence Against Women Act programs which is $45.5 million above FY 2017. VAWA grants are critical to the state of NJ to support services and programs in response to domestic violence and sexual assault. VAWA grants provide annual support to organizations like the Jersey Battered Women Service which uses this funding to support the Morris Family Justice center which since its opening last year has helped over 500 clients. Reduce Sexual Assault Kits Backlog Grants –the bill provides $45 million to promote progress in reducing the backlog of untested sexual assault kits. These grants provide resources and improve processes to test kits, provide training to law enforcement personnel while providing justice and resolution to the victims of sexual assault. Byrne Justice Assistance Grants(JAG) – the legislation includes $500 million for the Department of Justice’s Byrne Justice Assistance Grants, an increase of $104 million. The cornerstone of federal crime fighting programs, this funding will provided direct assistance to New Jersey police officers and the law enforcement community by supporting multijurisdictional drug and gang task forces, information sharing and technology, county jails, prosecutors, drug courts, and juvenile delinquency and drug treatment programs. Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA)– The legislation provides $9 million for CASA which will support CASA programs across the country including CASA of Morris and Sussex Counties, CASA for Children of Essex County, Passaic County CASA, and 12 other local CASA programs in New Jersey. These programs provided specially-trained and supervised advocates that devote sustained, long-term attention to the needs and rights of more than 3,660 child victims of abuse and neglect in New Jersey's 21 counties. These child victims face significant trauma, multiple risk factors and, without effective intervention, long odds for success. National Science Foundation (NSF)- The legislation funds NSF at $7.3 billion. In 2016 New Jersey received $163.7 million from the NSF to support research at 19 universities including Princeton, Rutgers, Stevens Institute of Technology, New Jersey Institute of Technology, and Montclair State University. In addition funding from the NSF was provided to 10 NJ small businesses in order to create jobs and help rebuild the economy. Also included in this account is $57 million for the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST). Rutgers and Princeton are two of the 36 institutional members working on LSST, which is a multipurpose observatory. More than 27 scientists and engineers in New Jersey are working on this project which will bring more than $7.5 million to the state. Legal Services(LSC) - The bill funds LSC, which the Administration proposed eliminating, at $300 million. LSC funding allows Legal Services of New Jersey to provide representation to an additional 20,000 New Jersey clients in 6,700 new legal matters each year. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration(NOAA) – Overall, the legislation provides $4.97 billion for NOAA, an increase over the President’s $4.8 billion budget request. Among other important activities, the funding supports: • $31 million for Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS) which collects and disseminates real-time data on the currents and dynamics of our oceans and Great Lakes which are used for a variety of essential services from Coast Guard search and rescue missions to severe weather forecasting. Rutgers is one of 11 Regional Associations of IOOS; • $63 million level funding for the National Sea Grant College, which the Administration slated for elimination. Funding supports the New Jersey Sea Grant Consortium to address challenges facing our coastal communities and work with nearly 23,000 school children to make ocean science part of their education. The funding also supports programs that filter storm- or wastewater along with publishing a technical manual which has resulted in the enhancement of a protective dunes system along the Jersey Shore; • $848 million in funding for National Marine Fisheries Service, this funding helps ensure productive and sustainable New Jersey fisheries an economic engine in our state which employees 65,000 people and generates $2.5 billion in economic activity. • $124 million in lending authority for Fisheries Finance Program including $100 million for traditional Direct Loans. Loans are available to businesses in New Jersey and elsewhere involved in fishing, aquaculture, or seafood processing for the purchase or improvement of facilities or equipment. Manufacturing Extension Program- $100 million provided in the bill. While this represents a reduction from current levels, the Administration had proposed to eliminate the program. Since 2000, New Jersey manufacturers have reported the following results as a result of engaging NJ MEP: • $2.53 billion in increased and retained sales; • $363 million in process improvement savings; • 29,776 in jobs created or retained; #### The legislation contains $54 billion in total discretionary funding, a decrease of $2.6 billion below fiscal year 2017 and $4.8 billion above the President’s request for these programs. The bill targets funding increases for national security – including cybercrime, counter-terrorism and espionage. The bill also provides increases for federal law enforcement to crack down on illegal immigration, and combat violent crime, gangs and opioid trafficking. Funds are included to help boost trade enforcement, continue investments in space exploration programs, and advance groundbreaking science and technologies essential for innovation, productivity, and economic growth. In order to make these investments, lower-priority programs are reduced or eliminated. -30-
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill passed by the House Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee secures funding for programs important to New Jersey organizations and communities. The bill provides annual funding for the Treasury Department, the Judiciary, the Small Business Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other related agencies. Small Business Administration (SBA) - The bill contains $848 million for the Small Business Administration (SBA) to help promote opportunities for American small businesses, including those in New Jersey, to begin, grow, and prosper. Small Business Development Centers(SBDC) - $120 Million, a portion of this funding will go to The New Jersey Small Business Development Centers (NJSBDC) network which is committed to guiding established small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs to create and expand their business enterprises which will, in turn, result in sustainable growth, job creation and economic development across our state. The NJSBDC network includes 12 centers across New Jersey: - NJSBDC at William Paterson University (Passaic County), NJSBDC at Rutgers Newark (Essex County) and - NJSBDC of Northwest Jersey (Morris and Sussex County). Women Small Business Centers (SBA)– the bill includes $17 million in funding to support organizations like the Women’s Center for Entrepreneurship [WCEC] in Chatham, Morris County to help elevate women to business success through education, counseling, mentoring and entrepreneurial training. Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI)– The Administration had proposed to eliminate the program but the legislation provides $190 million. New Jersey has 14 CDFI’s that have received $40 million in funding to promote community development in distressed urban and rural communities by increasing the availability of credit, investment capital and financial services available. High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas(HIDTA) – The bill provides level funding of $254 million for HIDTA, which provides assistance to federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug-trafficking regions of the U.S. This grant program is administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). There are currently 28 HIDTAs, which include approximately 18 percent of all counties in the United States and 66 percent of the U.S. population. The following New Jersey counties are in the HIDTA NY/NJ region: Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Passaic, Union. Internal Revenue Service services: The bill provides $2.3 billion for taxpayer services and includes numerous provisions that seek to streamline and modernize the IRS to better assist and protect New Jersey taxpayers. The bill includes provision that would: Ø Require the IRS to better track and educate the public on identity theft which has affected innocent taxpayers; Ø Encourage the IRS to create a new and innovative customer service plan to deliver timely and quality telephone and written correspondence service to tax payers; Ø Requires the IRS to work with law enforcement officials to develop a plan to stop persistent IRS phone scams; U.S. Postal Service Six Day Delivery– The bill includes language that would mandate 6 day delivery by the U.S. Post Office. For many New Jersey families, Saturday is often the one day when most people are home to accept their mail. These mail customers rely on six-day delivery to receive vital mail or packages, like baby formula, prescription drugs, or social security checks. ++ The bill totals $20.231 billion – $1.284 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $2.483 billion below the President’s budget request. The legislation targets resources to programs that will help boost economic growth and opportunity, protect consumers and investors, promote an efficient federal court system, and stop financial crime. -30-
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Agriculture Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today supports key industries in New Jersey. The legislation funds important agricultural and food programs and services, including food and medical product safety, animal and plant health programs, agricultural trade, financial marketplace oversight, and key nutrition programs. “The safety and accessibility of our nation’s food and drug supply is of utmost importance to our economy, our quality of life, and – given the great benefit of producing necessities here at home – our national security. This bill prioritizes funding on federal programs that support these critical industries and the farmers, medical professionals, researchers and many others that form the backbone of our food and drug supply – which is the best in the world,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “All these provisions are important for New Jersey - the Garden State – and its significant pharmaceutical and medical device industries.” Among its many provisions, the legislation supports a new Food and Drug Administration (FDA) program, the Continuous Manufacturing Initiative, which will award grants to institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations which are working to transform pharmaceutical production. The goal is to develop new technologies to replace the pharmaceutical industry’s century-old batch processing methods. Continuous manufacturing will benefit patients, healthcare providers, and the pharmaceutical industry by accelerating the introduction of new medicines, assisting in drug quality monitoring and minimizing waste, energy consumption, and raw material use. The legislation also appropriates $60 million as authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act, and includes language to allow FDA to receive transfers from the National Institutes of Health for support of the FDA’s Oncology Center of Excellence. In the report to accompany the Agriculture Appropriations bill, the panel recognized the recent FDA action on through its Opioids Action Plan and Opioid Policy Steering Committee. “The FDA has acknowledged that the agency shoulders some responsibility for turning the tide” on the abuse, misuse and diversion of opioid painkillers across the country. The Committee has encouraged the FDA to “utilize the full breadth of its regulatory authority to address this challenge.” The legislation also includes funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and child nutrition programs. Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)– The bill provides $6.15 billion for WIC. Child nutrition programs– The bill provides for $24.28 billion in required mandatory funding – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for child nutrition programs. This is $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This funding will provide free or reduced-price school lunches and snacks for 31 million children who qualify for the program. The bill provides approximately $640 million for the Summer Food Service Program to ensure low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. In addition, the bill continues funding for a pilot program that provides additional funds through SNAP or WIC electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards to ensure children in underserved communities receive food during the summer months. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)– The bill provides for $73.6 billion in required mandatory spending – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for SNAP - $4.87 billion below last year’s level and $2.6 million below the President’s budget request, reflecting declining enrollment and a decrease in food costs. The total includes $3 billion for the SNAP reserve fund which is used to cover any unexpected participation increases. The Committee also directs the Agricultural Research Service to continue researching the cultural needs of blueberries and cranberries including genetic improvements to increase genetic diversity and improve resistance to various disease and insects. +++ The bill totals $20 billion in discretionary funding, which is $876 million lower than the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $4.64 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation prioritizes this funding in programs for rural communities, farmers, ranchers, food and drug safety, and nutrition for those in need. In addition, the bill contains several policy provisions to rein in unnecessary and burdensome regulations that harm U.S. food producers and that impede growth in important U.S. industries. -30-
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today advances flood control and preparedness in New Jersey. Overall, the legislation provides annual funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy (DOE), and other related agencies. “National security is our number-one priority, and this bill will fund essential programs that maintain our nuclear deterrence posture in the face of growing global threats – including North Korea and other countries that are testing the tolerance of the international community,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) said. “Further, this legislation will make important investments in our energy development and water infrastructure to keep our economy growing and to continue the country’s lead in essential energy technology and innovation.” “This bill includes strong funding for the Army Corps of Engineers – $120 million more than last year – and $1.2 billion more than the President’s budget request. These projects are vital to New Jersey and other states to protect people, businesses, and infrastructure from damages caused by floods and coastal storms,” he said. “The Army Corps’ work also ensures our ports and waterways are able to move cargo and bulk goods around the country and overseas.” Frelinghuysen noted that the report to accompany the FY 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill highlights the significance of the 2016 completed New Jersey/New York Harbor Deepening project, declaring , “This project of national significance is an example of how the (Army) Corps and its partners can work together to enhance our national economy.” The legislation includes funding for: New Jersey Back Bay Study ($449k) to continue research to bring relief from back bay flooding. The New Jersey Back Bay (NJBB) is located behind the New Jersey barrier islands of Monmouth, Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May Counties and includes the set of interconnected water bodies and coastal lakes that are separated from the Atlantic Ocean; Green Brook Sub-Basin ($20 million) to continue construction on a series of channel modifications, levees with limited floodwalls and dry detention basins. The Green Brook Sub Basin, located within the Raritan River Basin in Middlesex, Somerset and Union counties encompassing 13 municipalities and draining approximately 65 square miles of primarily urban and industrialized area, is continually subject to severe, and sometimes devastating, flood damage. Funding is also provided in the bill for the Passaic River Flood Warning System, which assists the public and emergency managers forecast and prepare for riverine flood events; Additional Operating and Maintenance (O&M) funding is provided for a number of projects throughout New Jersey to keep our waterways dredged and our beaches replenished. Funding for the Office of Science is held steady at $5.4 billion, $919 million above the President’s request. The money is used to keep the national laboratories, including Princeton Plasma Physics Lab, at the forefront of global scientific discovery. In addition, it is important to note that the bill continues funding for the Weatherization Assistance Program (WAP), a program important to certain New Jersey residents that had been slated for termination in the Administration’s budget. WAP is a grant program of the Department of Energy that helps states improve the energy efficiency of the homes of elderly, handicapped and low-income families. First established in 1976, the program has been used to aid more than 7 million families since. “Weatherization” generally involves making basic improvements to homes that cut down on their energy use — for instance, sealing up holes in walls and windows, adding insulation or replacing heating and cooling equipment. +++ Overall, the FY 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill totals $37.56 billion – $209 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $3.65 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation provides strong national security investments, including increases above fiscal year 2017 for nuclear weapons programs. The bill also protects funding for critical national and regional waterways - which handle commerce valued at more than $2 trillion annually - through the Army Corps of Engineers, and programs that encourage energy independence and economic competitiveness. -30-
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –The Fiscal Year 2018 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill that will be considered by the House T-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee this evening advances key transportation projects in New Jersey, including the Hudson rail tunnel, part of the critically important Gateway project. “Now more than ever, it is imperative to our economy and to our quality of life to have safe and well-functioning transportation infrastructure. This bill makes investments in essential highway, air, rail, and maritime programs that will keep our people and our goods moving efficiently,” Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “I am especially pleased that more than $900 million will be allocated to the Gateway program in the New Jersey-New York area in this legislation.” “It is not an overstatement to say that Gateway is critical to our nation’s economy. The Northeast Corridor region, encompassing over 50 million people from Washington D.C. to Boston, produces approximately $3 trillion in economic output, equal to 20% of our national Gross Domestic Product. Safe and reliable passenger rail travel through New Jersey and New York City is essential to that economic productivity.” “Rebuilding the Hudson Tunnels is of vital importance to my home state of New Jersey and our region. From 2002-2014, the number of New Jersey residents commuting to New York City grew by more than 35%. However, New Jersey residents have been plagued by perpetual delays and decaying infrastructure commuting, and reverse commuting, into New York City. The Gateway project, especially the proposed new Hudson River Tunnel, serves both public transportation (NJ Transit) and intercity passenger rail (Amtrak). $500 million will be provided in “rail state of good repair grants” - authorized primarily for NE corridor – from Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) funds. Another $400 million in transit money is tied to soon-to-ready-for-construction funding for the Hudson Tunnel and the Portal North Bridge. In addition, a significant portion of Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor $328 million in funding will be used to support projects associated with Gateway. #### In total, the Fiscal Year 2018 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development bill reflects an allocation of $56.5 billion in discretionary spending – $1.1 billion below fiscal year 2017 and $8.6 billion above the Administration’s budget request. This funding is targeted to essential investments in transportation infrastructure investments, as well as a variety of community development and housing programs. -30-
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The House Appropriations Committee today passed the fiscal year 2018 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill which provides annual funding for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives and the support agencies of Congress, including the Library of Congress. “This legislation improves the safety of families visiting the Capitol and for anyone that works for this great institution. As we all witnessed two weeks ago, the Capitol and its visitors are at increased risk. Today and every day, we owe an immense debt of gratitude to the United States Capitol Police as they put their lives on the line protecting the Capitol and the millions of annual visitors,” said Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen. The bill provides an increase of funding for the Capitol Police to fund critical safety and enhanced security functions. In total, the Committee recommends Capitol Police funding at $422.5 million, an increase of $29.2 million above current levels. This will suppoort critical safety and enhanced security functions for all Members, staff, and visitors of the Capitol Complex, and maintain public access to the Capitol and its office buildings. The bill also contains $1.194 billion to fund the operations of the House – an increase of $5 million above fiscal year 2017. This account provides funding for Members’ Representational Allowances (MRAs), leadership, committees, and Officers of the House. This additional funding will enhance security for Members when they are away from the Capitol complex. Funding is provided for additional cybersecurity enhancements. “This legislation also includes the necessary resources to keep Congress open for business, fully functioning, and accessible to all, ensuring the best possible constituent service to the people of this nation and New Jersey,” said Frelinghuysen. The bill also continues critical funding for the Library of Congress, one of the largest libraries in the world with a collection of over 162 million items, many available digitally for constituents. The Veterans History Project, in which many NJ-11 veterans have graciously participated, is fully funded and will continue to capture the personal accounts of our American heroes from all wars for future generations. -30-
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee today helps various New Jersey entities and organizations support our Armed Forces and their missions. Overall, the legislation funds the Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense – including operations, readiness activities, and health and quality-of-life programs for our troops and military families. “After years of unnecessary and unwise cuts to our national security, this legislation represents the next step forward in rebuilding our military and ensuring our nation is ready to meet any current or emerging threat,” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “This bill will provide our forces with the resources they need to do their jobs and ensure the success of our missions. As Chairman, I am pleased to support New Jersey’s historic role to improve the lethality, effectiveness and safety of our troops.” For example, the legislation provides over $130 million in funding to the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County as a follow-up to a recent study conducted under the auspices of the Office of Secretary of Defense. “World events such as state aggression, terrorism, global weapons proliferation, and technological threat evolution have resulted in a gradual erosion of US Army superiority over potential peer adversaries,” Frelinghuysen said. “The OSD study identified specific areas of concern including loss of weapons range overmatch, effects of enemy countermeasures to GPS, and the proliferation of low-cost commercially available unmanned aerial systems. This bill provides the funding to allow the experts at Picatinny to advance the capabilities of our Armed Forces as soon as possible.” For example: the Committee bill recommends for execution at Picatinny Arsenal: $20 million for the Army’s Extended Range Cannon program $20 million for the sensor fused munition $15 million to improve laser weapons accuracy $20 million for improved defense against small unmanned aerial systems $15 million for weapons effectiveness in urban environments $20 million for armament systems integration $20 million for armament systems development The funding is provided above the President’s budget request in order to accelerate technology development. Notably, the bill also provides funding and direction to the Navy, Marines, Air Force and Special Forces to improve ammunition manufacturing and cost reduction, develop, demonstrate and deploy new technologies to increase weapons systems capabilities and procure advanced services and equipment to meet future lethality and range requirements set forth by the services. The bill adds funding to a Navy program designed to protect surface ships from enemy torpedoes. The measure boosts strategies and technologies to improve the efficiency of burn patient care in military treatment facilities. It also supports research into the development of hybrid unmanned air/water systems that can be submerged while carrying payloads. Many New Jersey companies and academic institutions are doing this important work for the Department of Defense In addition to providing operations and maintenance monies for every New Jersey military installation, the bill also: provides $2.4 billion for another 15 KC-46 aircraft – the new airborne tanker that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst; directs the Secretary of the Air Force to explore the use of granular activated carbon for the removal of perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) that impact water quality at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst and other Air Force installations. provides a $11.7 million increase for aircraft and vehicle purchases for the Civil Air Patrol, an organization that is very active in New Jersey. “New Jersey’s military and veterans families will be interested to know that our bill provides $282 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $277 million for sexual assault prevention and response,” said Chairman Frelinghuysen. “Due to the critical nature of these programs, all of these funding levels represent increases above the President’s budget request.” Because of the importance of the National Guard and Reserves to New Jersey and all states, the bill provides $1 billion for the National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA) and an additional $100 million for Army National Guard HMMWV modernization, among its other provisions. The bill directs the construction of two Virginia-class attack submarines and provides $776 million for the new Columbia-class ballistic missile submarine program, supporting a submarine industrial base in New Jersey. Likewise, funding in the bill supports various national security space and satellite programs, to which several New Jersey firms contribute. Earlier this month, the Appropriations Committee approved the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill which included over $157 million to upgrade facilities at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst in preparation for the arrival of the new KC-46 tanker after 2020. +++ Overall, the FY 2018 Defense Appropriations bill provides $584.2 billion in discretionary funding – an increase of $68.1 billion above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $18.4 billion above the President’s Defense budget request. The bill also provides $73.9 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding. The OCO/GWOT funding will provide the needed resources for preparation and operations in the field to fight ongoing threats, including funding for personnel requirements, operational needs, the purchase of new aircraft to replace combat losses, combat vehicle safety modifications, additional Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) assets, and maintenance of facilities and equipment. It also provides critical support to our key allies, such as Israel, Ukraine and Jordan to resist aggression. Additional funds are targeted to requirements identified by our military services, including higher troop levels, readiness efforts, infrastructure, and equipment recapitalization and modernization. This also includes additional training time, facilities and aircraft repairs, procurement of modernized equipment, and the research and development of new military capabilities. The bill includes $1 billion above the President’s budget request for additional troop end strength, and fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for the military. Funding in the bill also supports key readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, including flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations. The bill contains funding above the President’s budget for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. -30-
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) had over 11,000 people on the line Tuesday as he conducted another Telephone Town Hall. While constituents raised such varied issues as veterans’ services, the future of Medicare, tax reform, the Department of Labor’s “Fiduciary Rule” and handicapped permits for automobiles, the future of Obamacare was the most common topic raised by residents in this live, unscripted Telephone Town Hall meeting. Frelinghuysen reminded participants that Obamacare is failing. He told “David from Whippany”: "One of the issues here is we have rising premiums, we have rising deductibles, and there are less choices for many of the people I represent," he said. "The legislative process is working. …the House passed a bill, we hope it will be improved by the Senate and we'll save the system." Frelinghuysen invited participants to engage on any issues they found important. “At home, there’s tax reform and trade policy. Overseas, Syria is an ongoing humanitarian disaster, getting worse before our eyes! North Korea continues to threaten the United States with its drive for a nuclear missile capability. China is moving ahead full throttle on expansion of sovereignty over the South China Sea!” “And then there’s Russia. There is no doubt that Russia meddled in our election and other elections in Europe. The key question: what are we going to do to prevent it from happening again?” Veterans’ services were on the minds of “Vinny from Parsippany” and “Patricia from Wayne.” “Harold from Wanaque” wanted to address tax reform and “David from Morris Plains” talked about “bipartisanship” which we clear need more of! Tuesday’s Telephone Town Hall Meeting is the fifth such meeting of 2017 for Frelinghuysen. -30-
06.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today unanimously approved the fiscal year 2018 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. The legislation begins to rebuild the military by providing funding to house, train, and equip military personnel, for housing and services to military families, and to help maintain base infrastructure. The bill also funds veterans’ benefits and health care programs. Notably, the bill provides over $157 million to upgrade facilities at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. “This action is BIG!” said Rep. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. “With this legislation, the Committee provides the funding and policies necessary to deliver on our time-honored promises to our military and our veterans. The bill also includes strong oversight measures to assure that tax dollars are being used wisely and to stop waste and abuse in its tracks, so that our troops and vets get the most benefit of every cent.” In total, the legislation provides $88.8 billion in discretionary funding – $6 billion above the fiscal year 2017 level. Within this total, funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs is increased by $4 billion – 5 percent – over the fiscal year 2017 level, including funding to increase access to services for veterans, and to increase oversight and accountability within the department. This includes the advance funding provided for veterans in the fiscal year 2017 appropriations bill. Military construction around the world where our troops are fighting is increased by $2.1 billion – 25 percent over the fiscal year 2017 level – to provide the necessary resources to continue to rebuild our military, to prepare our servicemembers to face existing and emerging threats, and to care for military families. The bill includes funding to help Joint Base-McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst prepare for the arrival of the Air Force’s new KC-46 tanker, providing money for a new hangar, apron and fire hydrant modifications, a maintenance training facility, “boom operator” and fuselage trainers and equipment storage building. In addition, the legislation provides $11.6 million for apron and taxiway improvements at JBMDL. “The funding for New Jersey’s Joint Base is an endorsement of the installation’s current and future military value. Ensuring that the proper resources are available to conduct successful missions from New Jersey is vital,” Frelinghuysen said. “It is no accident that the first appropriations bill of the FY 2018 cycle is legislation that delivers on our promises to our military and our veterans. This bill demonstrates our strong support for the brave men and women who have endured hardships and sacrifices through their service to our great nation.” -30-
06.07.2017	Wayne Office Information: Wednesday 9 AM to 4 PM Wayne Township Municipal Complex 475 Valley Road, Wayne, NJ 07470 Nutley Office Information: Thursday 9 AM to 4 PM Municipal Building 1 Kennedy Drive, Nutley, NJ 07110
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In January, the Secretary of the Air Force announced Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL), New Jersey, and Travis AFB, California, as “preferred alternatives” for KC-46A Main Operating Base 4, with 24 aircraft assigned to each base. The United States Air Force has now informed U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) that Air Mobility Command (AMC) has decided to sequence the aircraft to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst with first aircraft arrival in FY2021, and to Travis Air Force Base with first aircraft arriving FY2023. This schedule is dependent on the delivery of the new KC-46 aircraft to the Air Force by Boeing. AMC made the decision based on JBMDL’s proximity to vital refueling routes to and from Europe. Additionally, the base will host the regional maintenance facility as well as a key maintenance training facility, thus benefitting from earlier aircraft delivery. “The Air Force’s decision to base new KC-46 tankers in New Jersey is an endorsement of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst as one of the nation’s premier air mobility installations,” said Frelinghuysen. “Fielding the KC-46 to the Joint Base first recognizes its importance to maintaining the critically important ‘air bridge’ from the continental U.S. to Europe, but also the Middle East, Africa and beyond. I can’t think of a better base to host this new tanker.” As immediate past Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Frelinghuysen for years advocated for basing the KC-46 tanker at JBMDL with senior Air Force leaders, including various Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force. “The message over the years has been simple: McGuire has the location, the facilities, the experience and the workforce to ensure that the Air Force maintains its ‘global reach.’ Nothing is more important for the warfighter!” The final basing decision is expected in the summer of 2018. The first new tankers are expected to arrive at JBMDL in Fiscal Year 2021. -30-
06.06.2017	Frelinghuysen Honored by Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has been honored with the Semper Fidelis award by the United States Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation. He was presented the award by the Secretary of Homeland Security, GEN John Kelley (USMC ret.) at a gala dinner in Washington. “As an Army draftee many years ago, I have always been awed by the Marine Corps’ fiercely proud tradition of excellence in combat, its hallowed rituals, and its unbending code of honor,” Frelinghuysen told the audience. “All of us can do no better than to try to live up to your core values of integrity, courage and commitment. For in a world awash in change and emerging threats, Americans need to have confidence in the everlasting character of our Marines. And we do!” He was presented the award by the Secretary of Homeland Security, GEN John Kelley (USMC ret.). “I am truly honored to receive the Semper Fidelis Award from the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation. Supporting our Marines and their families —past and present—has been, and will remain, a number one priority for me.” Frelinghuysen serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. He previously served as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. -30- Caption for photo: Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) was recently presented with the Semper Fidelis Award by the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation. The honor was bestowed by the Secretary of Homeland Security, General John Kelly (USMC, ret) Lieutenant General George Trautman (USMC, ret), the Chairman of the Foundation and Ms. Margaret Davis, President and CEO of the Foundation.
05.24.2017	House Committee on Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen made the following statement on the release of the President’s budget request: "As outlined in the Constitution, the Congress, not the Executive Branch, has the ‘power of the purse.’ My Committee takes this responsibility very seriously. It is our job to analyze the request, go through each and every budget line, question every witness, and demand spending justifications on behalf of the taxpayers who are footing the bill. Only then can Congress put forward our own plan to fund the federal government, ensuring the wise investment of taxpayer dollars on important programs while trimming back or eliminating waste and duplication. "The Appropriations Committee has already begun this process, and it will continue rapidly over the next weeks and months. We intend to work as quickly as possible – while maintaining the highest standard of responsibility – to complete the fiscal year 2018 Appropriations bills in a timely fashion. It is up to this Congress to provide needed proper funding to federal programs to maintain our national security and to uphold our common American values.” -30-
05.09.2017	Chatham Courier EDITORIAL: Frelinghuysen delivers Federal funds secured for mass transit, Highlands, local projects May 2, 2017 Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-11, chair of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, clearly put his stamp on the legislation that will fund the federal government through Sept. 30. Most importantly from a state and regional level is the $75 million in additional funding he secured for Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor, where a series of breakdowns at New York Penn Station and in the Sandy-damaged Hudson River tunnels have made the lives of rail commuters a nightmare. Frelinghuysen said he wants some of the additional Northeast Corridor funding to go toward the essential Gateway Rail Tunnel project, which is New Jersey’s and the nation’s top rail priority. The budget also includes $68 million for grants for rail safety projects, including the installation of Positive Train Control systems that is a top funding priority of NJ Transit in the wake of the fatal derailment at the Hoboken station last September. The funding plan also includes a mix of other Frelinghuysen priorities, including $48 million for the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center at Picatinny Arsenal to research new ways of disarming explosive devices. An unexpected $10 million is set aside for the acquisition of open space in the Highlands, a real bonus when the Trump administration’s rhetoric has been so anti-environment. The budget also includes $62 million to reimburse municipalities for the extra security costs involved in providing presidential protection, some of which would go to Bedminster Township for additional costs incurred when Trump was in residence during the campaign and if he makes Trump National Golf Course his summer White House retreat. He will apparently be there this weekend. The Bedminster funding was also a clear priority of Frelinghuysen's neighboring congressman, Leonard Lance. The $1.2 trillion measure is the first major spending bill under Frelinghuysen's tenure as appropriations chair. Congress is expected to pass the measure and send it to Trump for his signature this week. It has been a long time – the late 1970s and early 1980s to be exact – since New Jersey has had committee chairs in such an influential position as Congressman Frelinghuysen now occupies. We are glad to see him putting his clout to good use.
05.04.2017	Any discussion of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) must begin with the Affordable Care Act (ACA). I hear from the personal pleas of constituents that “Obamacare” is failing to make their health care affordable with skyrocketing premiums, soaring deductibles, and fewer choices for them and their families. In addition, Obamacare continues to wreak havoc in the job market. The ACA has damaged small businesses by raising taxes, discouraging hiring and encouraging fewer working hours and, in effect, lowering wages of employees. So today, seven years after enactment of the Affordable Care Act, we must make positive changes to rescue healthcare in America. Doing nothing is not an option! Doing nothing means more insurance companies pull out of the market and people literally have no coverage at all! At the outset, I want to reassure New Jersey families that the bill before us protects those with pre-existing conditions. The measure we might have voted on weeks ago was unacceptable, but recent changes made it a better bill. This bill repeals Obamacare’s taxes and mandate penalties, dismantles the law’s one-size-fits-all programs, and shifts control of health care back to states and the American people. While this legislation is not perfect, or the complete solution to our broken health care system, the AHCA is a step in the right direction toward a market-based 21st century health care system. On balance, the American Health Care Act offers promise. In addition to repealing billions in taxes and penalties that drive up costs and limit choices for New Jersey families, AHCA lowers costs by promoting competition, innovation, and choice. The bill helps low- and middle-income Americans gain access to care by providing a monthly portable tax credit. The measure also expands Health Savings Accounts (HSA) so patients can save and spend their health care dollars the way they see fit. Clearly, New Jersey is a state with an older population. Recognizing that, this legislationprovides $85 billion to provide additional support for Americans ages 50 to 64 who face higher health care costs. Combined with the current age-based tax credit and other provisions, this will help deliver meaningful support for the individuals and families who need it most. Unlike Obamacare, the new bill recognizes that different states have different health systems and requirements. This legislation provides states, like New Jersey, with the flexibility to better serve the individuals and families in local communities and to strengthen their Medicaid programs and ensure our nation’s most vulnerable patients have access to the care they need. I would add that that flexibility comes with additional federal dollars. There are numerous other positive reforms that seek to undo the damage of Obamacare. For example, this bill: replaces premium subsidies, which could only be used on the ACA’s exchanges, with refundable tax credits that can be used on both exchange or non-exchange plans; establishes a $138 billion fund to help states stabilize their markets and lower costs for consumers, at least $15 billion must be used specifically for mental health and substance use disorders and maternity care; increases maximum contribution limit to Health Savings Accounts to deductible and out-of-pocket limitation. I am aware that this measure has been criticized for an alleged failure to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions. However, under this legislation insurance companies cannot deny anyone coverage based on pre-existing conditions. And your health status cannot affect your premiums, unless your state asks for and receives a waiver—a condition of which is the state having other protections in place for those with pre-existing conditions. Even if a state does obtain a waiver, so long as you’ve been continuously covered, you still cannot be charged more. And the bill provides added resources to help people in waiver states who have not been continuously covered to gain coverage. The bottom line, there are many levels of protection for those with pre-existing conditions in the legislation. Further, I strongly believe that Members of Congress and our staff must abide by the same laws as everyone else. While an amended section of the American Health Care Act would not apply to Members of Congress and staff, a necessity in order to comply with the rules of budget reconciliation, I was pleased to vote for additional legislation today, H.R. 2192, which will ensure that Members of Congress and staff would not be exempt from any provisions in the American Health Care Act should it become law. In March, I expressed my opposition to an earlier version of this bill because it placed new costs and barriers to care on my constituents in New Jersey. In addition, that bill’s denial of essential health benefits in the individual market raised serious coverage and cost issues. However, essential health benefits have been re-instated as a federal requirement in this version. The citizens of this nation deserve better than a Congress that appears to be incapable of resolving controversial issues like health care reform. In this regard, I feel that we must move a bill to the Senate where significant changes to improve this imperfect product will certainly occur. I am hopeful that we will have a better proposal when it comes back from the Senate. For that reason, I intend to support passage of this latest version with the commitment that if the basic access to services is not protected, I will not support final passage of the House-Senate Conference report. It bears repeating that Obamacare, though well-intentioned, has failed: it’s failed in its goals, and it’s failed in its promises. Some people may be willing to stand by and watch it collapse. However, I am not willing to leave middle-class working Americans with a poor quality, expensive, bureaucratic, dysfunctional health care system.
05.04.2017	“Obamacare is collapsing across the country and failing to make health care affordable for New Jersey families facing skyrocketing premiums, soaring deductibles, and fewer choices. So doing nothing is not an option! “The earlier version of the House-proposed American Health Care Act was unacceptable to me. Today, I want to reassure New Jersey families that this legislation protects those with pre-existing conditions and restores essential health benefits. “I voted to move this bill to the U.S. Senate, which will have the opportunity to improve this legislation significantly.” ###
05.03.2017	
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – The “Continuing Appropriations” package introduced by House Appropriations Chairman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, expected to be approved by Congress by a bipartisan majority and signed by the President this week, contains funding important to New Jersey. “This package of the remaining Appropriations bills is the result of over a year’s worth of careful and dedicated efforts to closely examine federal programs to make the best possible use of every tax dollar,” said Frelinghuysen. “This legislation will fund critical federal government activities, including our national defense, and enact responsible funding decisions to target U.S. investments where they are needed the most, including many in New Jersey. It also maintains and enhances policies that bolster economic growth and support the core values that our nation is built upon.” Details of the entire appropriations package can be found here. To summarize just a few New Jersey priorities: Amtrak Northeast Corridor/Gateway The Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) title of the bill adds $75 million for Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor for a total of $328 million. The bill’s intent is that Amtrak will use a significant share of the additional funding to address issues related to the Gateway project. Specifically, the Statement of Managers” states: “The agreement allows Amtrak to undertake new capital projects and encourages Amtrak to prioritize strategic rail infrastructure improvements at critical points in the rail network that would improve current services or create new capacity.” Highlands Open Space/Drinking Water Protection The Interior title of the package contains $10 million for land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases from willing sellers in the four-state Highlands region: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut, a critical watershed region which provides drinking water for millions. Homeland Security Non-Profit Security Grants The Homeland Security title of the Continuing Appropriations bill includes $605 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) and $25 million to be designated for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) which supports “target hardening” and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack. In the wake of a recent wave of anti-Semitic threats against synagogues and Jewish schools, the total funding for the NSGP is $5 million higher than current levels. Urban Search and Rescue The Homeland Security title provides $38.2 million for FEMA’s Urban Search and Rescue system (USAR) and included is a “one-time increase” of $3.1 million from the current budget levels “to ensure teams are uniformly equipped.” New Jersey Task Force 1 is the newest member of the USAR, having joined less than one year ago. HUD-VASH Homeless Vouchers The T-HUD title contains $40 million above President Obama’s last budget request for 3,700 new vouchers for housing for homeless veterans under the HUD-VASH program. The FY 2017 Military Construction-VA appropriations bill, passed last year, provided funding for 79,000 veterans. Housing Vouchers for People with Disabilities (Frelinghuysen Vouchers) Under the T-HUD title, the final bill includes $120 million for Section 811 vouchers for persons with disabilities – the “Frelinghuysen Vouchers” – $10 million above President Obama’s FY 2017 budget request to provide new housing opportunities for persons with disabilities. Defense The Department of Defense (DOD) portion of the Omnibus funds critical national security needs, including military operations and readiness programs, as well as health and quality-of-life programs for our troops and military families. In total, the bill provides $593 billion, an increase of $19.9 billion over the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $16.3 billion more than the Obama Administration’s request. When combined with the $5.8 billion in supplemental funding enacted in the Continuing Resolution that passed in December, the total Defense funding for fiscal year 2017 is $598.5 billion, an increase of $25.7 billion over fiscal year 2016 and $22.1 billion more than President Obama’s original request. The DOD portion of the legislative package contains significant new money to fund critical efforts by the Armaments Research Development Engineering Center (ARDEC) at Picatinny Arsenal to increase the range, lethality, and survivability of U.S. military units on the battlefield. In addition, the measure provides funding for the planning and design, in FY 2017, of an Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Research and Development Center at Picatinny Arsenal in FY 2019. In addition to providing base operating funds for all of New Jersey’s military installations including Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, Naval Weapons Station Earle and the 177th Fighter Wing in Atlantic City, the bill includes funding that will increase New Jersey’s military contributions. Protecting the strength and sustainability of this state’s unique military installations is critical to all of our Armed Forces. Supporting these bases is vital to both our national defense and our state’s historical support for national security. For more information, visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394859 -30-
04.27.2017	Frelinghuysen Plans Upcoming TeleTown Hall Meetings Urges Constituents to Sign Up to Participate MORRISTOWSN, NEW JERSEY– U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen is urging residents of the 11th Congressional District to sign up for additional Telephone Town Hall meetings that he will be hosting, including one during the May 8-12 Congressional District Work period. Constituents will be able to talk directly to the Congressman about the important issues that matter to them the most. “So far this year, I have held three such Town Hall meetings and dialed into every area of the district and hosted thousands of constituents on the line, listening to concerns and answering questions on a wide-range of topics,” said Frelinghuysen. “As I move about my district these days, I am fielding many questions about immigration, tax reform, health care and such national security topics as North Korea. Telephone Town Hall meetings provide a great opportunity to listen and discuss the issues of the day.” All constituents are welcome. To register for the next round of Telephone Town Hall meetings, visit Rep. Frelinghuysen’s Congressional website and register using the button on the right-hand side of the opening page to sign up. Additionally, constituents can participate by calling one of Frelinghuysen’s offices at 973-984-0711 or 202-225-5034. -30-
04.25.2017	MORRISTOWN, NJ – Roughly one month before the beginning of the 2017 Atlantic “Hurricane Season,” Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) brought a veteran National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) “Hurricane Hunter” to visit with students at four schools in his Congressional District on Monday, April 24, 2017, CDR Justin Kibbey, a National Oceanographic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) pilot. Schools the Congressman visited are as follows: Memorial Middle School (Whippany) Valley Road Elementary School (Stanhope) Lenox Elementary School (Pompton Lakes) Littleton Elementary School (Morris Plains) “Commander Kibbey has thousands of hours of flying experience in some of the worst hurricanes to approach or hit our shores,” said Frelinghuysen. “His presentation educated all of us on hurricane science.” Frelinghuysen added, “We share the same goal: to convince students the value of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education. Hopefully, Commander Kibbey’s experience will inspire many boys and girls to pursue their life’s work in these fields. For these students, this very presentation may be key to their future. STEM education, from preschool through college, prepares pupils for well-paying careers across education levels. The median annual wage for STEM workers is more than double the median wage for all workers. This holds true across education levels, including the 25% of STEM workers with less than a bachelor’s degree. Beyond this reality, STEM is the future of our U.S. economy.” Commander Kibbey of the NOAA Corps is a veteran P-3 pilot. In March 2010, he was selected for an interservice transfer from the U.S. Navy to the NOAA Corps at the Aircraft Operations Center in Tampa, Florida. He flew his first hurricane mission in September 2010, and he has flown approximately 20 flights every year since. He helps scientists gather data by flying planes into hurricanes. ###
04.07.2017	“The President said this week the crisis in Syria ‘is now my responsibility.’ He recognizes that it is time for our government to lead on Syria and stop Assad from acting with impunity at the expense of his own people and regional stability. He acted decisively!” ###
04.06.2017	PICATINNY, NEW JERSEY – U.S. Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations recently welcomes the Army's top civilian, to Picatinny Arsenal. He invited Mr. Robert Speer, a 28-year Army veteran, to visit to gain a better understanding of how this vital installation contributes to the strategic readiness of the Army as well as the Navy, Air Force and Marines. "It's been an eye-opening experience to visit with you and see what you do and what you dedicate to our readiness outlook," Speer told employees after the tour. "Because (readiness) starts with innovation and the drive and people that make our Army great." Speer, the Acting Secretary of the United States Army, spent his time in two technology forums that showcased the synergy between Picatinny's two main organizations - the Program Executive Office Ammunition and the Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center. "Picatinny Arsenal is a unique facility with a mission vital to the nation, especially the Army. The workforce here possesses knowledge and expertise that increases the lethality of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines," Speer said. Speer received presentations on a sampling of technologies, including several lethality efforts that Picatinny develops and manages for the Department of Defense. Some of these programs included work on the Extended Range Cannon Artillery and on a new advanced Abrams tank round. "The Picatinny team's work expands our technological advantage across the battlefield. Threats to our national security are always there, so the research and development conducted here are vital," said Speer. Picatinny is designated the Joint Center of Excellence for Guns and Ammunition, providing products and services to all branches of the U.S. military. The Arsenal provides 90 percent of the Army's lethality and also works closely with the navy, Marines, Air Force, our special operations community and the armed forces of partner nations. The Secretary of the Army has ultimate responsibility for all matters relating to the United States Army and is responsible for recruiting, training, equipping soldiers to provide forces to support of America's national defense strategy.
03.24.2017	“Seven years after enactment of Obamacare, I wanted to support legislation that made positive changes to rescue healthcare in America. “Unfortunately, the legislation before the House today is currently unacceptable as it would place significant new costs and barriers to care on my constituents in New Jersey. In addition to the loss of Medicaid coverage for so many people in my Medicaid-dependent state, the denial of essential health benefits in the individual market raise serious coverage and cost issues. “I remain hopeful that the American Health Care Act will be further modified. We need to get this right for all Americans.” -30-
03.21.2017	“I am saddened by reports of yet another shameful anti-Semitic threat against another synagogue, this time at Temple Beth Shalom in Livingston. These are not just attacks against the Jewish religion, heritage, culture and values, but are crimes against our entire nation. America was built on the foundation of religious tolerance. Anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry must end!” ###
03.21.2017	After a meeting with the President and House members, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) provided the following update to constituents interested in ongoing work on a replacement to the Affordable Care Act: “The reality is that Obamacare is failing to make health care affordable and is crumbling, with skyrocketing premiums, soaring deductibles, and fewer choices for patients and families. The law is also wreaking havoc on the job market, especially for small businesses. We must make positive changes - because doing nothing is not an option! “As I have stated, the current legislative proposal is not perfect. But it is moving in the right direction to provide quality, affordable health insurance for all Americans. “The legislative process is continuing. I am actively reviewing the latest changes to the bill and expect continued improvements as it moves forward.” ###
03.20.2017	Frelinghuysen Telephone Town Hall Meeting MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) will be conducting another in his ongoing series of Telephone Town Hall meetings on: Monday, March 20, 2017 5 p.m. (855)-756-7520 Ext.34816# -30-
03.16.2017	U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, made the following statement today on the release of the President’s budget blueprint: "Our Appropriations Committee will take a close look at the budget and supplemental requests we received today. As directed under the Constitution, Congress has the power of the purse. While the President may offer proposals, Congress must review both requests to assure the wise investment of taxpayer dollars. "Over the next several weeks, our Committee will work quickly to complete the 2017 Appropriations bills, analyze and make decisions on supplemental funding for national and border security, and begin the task of funding the federal government for 2018. "I'm optimistic that we can strike a balance that will enable us to fund the federal government responsibly and address emergency needs, while ensuring this legislation will clear the Congress.” #####
03.13.2017	MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY- In light of the National Weather Service’s forecast of a "a very strong winter storm” expected in the 11th Congressional District and a State of Emergency declared by Governor Christie, Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has postponed his Telephone Town Hall meeting scheduled for 5:30 p.m. Tuesday until 5 p.m. on Monday March 20. Constituents interested in participating next Monday, can call one of Frelinghuysen’s offices (973-984-0711 and 202-225-5034) and provide them with a telephone number which will then be added to the list. Constituents can also use a “button” on https://frelinghuysen.house.gov/ that will add them to the call. -30-
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), the only member of the New Jersey Congressional delegation to chair a full House Committee, today steered the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill, H.R. 1301, through the House by a vote of 371-48. The bill will now be considered by the Senate. The bill funds military operations overseas, increases the purchase of state-of-the-art aircraft and ships and improves readiness of our troops to meet global threats. The measure also provides for a 2.1% pay raise for our troops and strengthens the various health programs for military personnel and their families. In addition, H.R 1301 enhances New Jersey’s contributions to our national security. “Our nation faces serious new challenges across the world. Our troops are serving with honor in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Korea, Japan, the Baltics and Africa,” Frelinghuysen said. “The rebuilding of our military starts today and I applaud the House for passing it with such a strong bipartisan vote.” In addition to providing base operating funds for New Jersey’s military installations, Picatinny Arsenal, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, Naval Weapons Station Earle and the 177th Fighter Wing in Atlantic City, the legislation includes funding that will boost New Jersey’s military contributions. For example, H.R. 1301 contains new funding to allow scientists, engineers and technicians at Picatinny Arsenal, the DOD Joint Center of Excellence for Armaments, to accelerate their urgent work to ensure that our weapons systems overmatch those of our adversaries. The bill also includes funding to expand production of the new KC-146 Pegasus air refueling tankers that will be stationed at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst beginning in 2020, enhancing the future missions of the New Jersey base. To protect New Jersey residents at home and abroad, the measure includes $1.9 billion above the President’s budget for key readiness programs to prepare forces, including the National Guard and Reserve, for peace-time missions and potential overseas operations in the United States. “Protecting the strength and sustainability of New Jersey’s unique military installations is critical to all of our Armed Forces,” Frelinghuysen said. “Supporting these bases is vital to both our national defense and our state’s historical support for national security. Beyond a doubt, they are essential to our economy, our national security, and our future.” In total, H.R. 1301 provides $577.9 billion, an increase of $5.2 billion over current spending and $1.6 billion more than the Obama Administration sought in its last budget request. This includes $516.1 billion in base discretionary funding – an increase of $2 billion above current levels – and $61.8 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding – $3.2 billion above current levels. When combined with the $5.8 billion in supplemental funding enacted in the December Continuing Resolution, total Defense funding for fiscal year 2017 is $583.7 billion, an increase of $10.9 billion over fiscal year 2016. -30-
03.07.2017	
03.06.2017	It’s Official: More Accessible Health Care for Northwest NJ Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, today participated in the formal ribbon-cutting ceremony for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Sussex County. “When it comes to veterans, the federal government has a solemn responsibility to ensure that not a single veteran, man or woman, falls through the cracks – not a single one,” said Frelinghuysen, a veteran of the Vietnam War. “Making sure veterans have timely access to medical care is one of the most important things we must do. For over two years, I have been working with my Congressional colleagues, Sussex Freeholders, state legislators and veterans leaders to bring greater access to health care to veterans in Sussex County by convincing the VA to establish this community health clinic.” Previously, Frelinghuysen was instrumental in the establishment of a veterans outpatient clinic in Morris Township. The VA's New Jersey Health Care System consists of two main “campuses" in East Orange and Lyons in Bernards Township with additional satellite clinics in Elizabeth, Hackensack, Hamilton, Jersey City, Paterson, Piscataway and Tinton Falls. Many veterans from Sussex County now use the Morris Twp. clinic - more than an hour's drive from parts of the county. Financial support for the Sussex CBOC is provided through the annual Military Construction-VA bill drafted by Frelinghuysen’s House Appropriations Committee. This annual bill provides advanced funding for veterans health care, fully funds veterans’ benefits and programs and contains the dollars to house, train, and equip military personnel, provide housing and services to our troops’ families, and help maintain military base infrastructure. The clinic is located at 222 High Street in Newton. The clinic will be open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. -30-
03.03.2017	By: Kellie Mejdrich Amid threats to Jewish institutions nationwide, House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen urged Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly to release Federal Emergency Management Agency grant funds to help at-risk organizations. In a letter publicized Friday, the New Jersey Republican told Kelly that FEMA’s Nonprofit Security Assistance grant program could provide funds that support “target hardening and other physical security enhancements to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack.” Specifically, he urged Kelly to issue what’s called a notice of funding opportunity for the grant program to begin the process of distributing assistance to Jewish community centers, synagogues, and other nonprofit centers across the country that have been threatened by violence. Frelinghuysen pointed to recent statistics compiled by the Jewish Community Center Association of North America that show there have been more than 100 threats in 33 states, with 31 on Monday alone. The FBI announced Friday the arrest of a suspect in some of the threats. The New York Times also reported Friday that federal authorities charged a St. Louis man, Juan Thompson, with making bomb threats against Jewish schools, community centers and a Jewish museum. Hate crimes against the Jewish community have made headlines recently including incidents at two Jewish cemeteries in St. Louis and Philadelphia in late February where headstones were broken and overturned. Frelinghuysen said DHS had not issued the grant notice despite “sufficient authority” to do so in the fiscal 2017 continuing resolution that keeps the government funded through April 28 (PL 114-254). “Based on these rising threats of violence targeted at Jewish Community Centers and institutions, I urge you to expeditiously proceed” with the grant notice, Frelinghuysen said in the letter, adding the monies would “provide much-needed funds to respond to this disturbing trend.” Kelly announced Thursday that DHS had, in response to recent threats, heightened its outreach and support efforts to the community. Kelly said in a Thursday statement that the agency’s National Protection and Programs Directorate spoke with the executive directors of the Jewish Community Center Association of North America. Kelly added DHS offered support from so-called Protective Security Advisors, DHS-associated individuals in all 50 states who serve as liaisons with the community, to help with “training, protective measures, exercises, and information sharing.” But Frelinghuysen said while Thursday’s announcement was appreciated, it wasn’t enough. “DHS must take additional steps to further strengthen these efforts,” Frelinghuysen said. FEMA did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
03.02.2017	“Revelations about the testimony of Attorney General Sessions before the Senate Judiciary Committee have raised a number of serious questions. He should immediately clarify his words and his actions and, at the very least, remove himself from any investigations into contacts between the Trump campaign and Putin’s partners and allies in Russia.” -30-
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has written to Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging that the Department of Justice and FBI quickly “prosecute the perpetrators” of recent anonymous bomb threats made via telephone against Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) and synagogues across the nation. Frelinghuysen wrote to Attorney General Sessions: “I am writing to again express my deep concern with the ongoing threats and acts of anti-Semitism against Jewish centers and synagogues. “As you well know, just yesterday, another 31 bomb threats targeted 23 community centers and eight Jewish day schools. These threats are not just attacks against the Jewish religion, heritage, culture and values, but are threats to our entire nation. “It is my understanding, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Rights Division continue to investigate these crimes. I would strongly urge the DOJ to prosecute the perpetrators for violations of federal criminal laws and work to end these threats!” Close to a hundred Jewish institutions have been targeted with bomb threats since the beginning of the year and several Jewish cemeteries have been vandalized. “This nation was built on the foundation of religious tolerance. Anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry are shameful and must end!” -30-
02.28.2017	Chatham Courier: Chatham High School seniors nominated for service academies Three Chatham High School seniors have been nominated to attend military service academies by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-11. James Coyne was nominated for the Air Force Academy and Caroline Duemling and Paul Malatesta both for the Naval Academy. Frelinghuysen attended a reception for the students nominated in the 11th district on Saturday, Feb. 25 at the Montville Public Library. Nomination does not guarantee an appointment to a service academy. Chatham High School alumni Pranay Mala also was nominated for the Air Force Academy. He graduated last year.
02.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today announced that he is signing a letter to Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of the FBI urging them to investigate anonymous bomb threats made via telephone against Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) and synagogues across the nation, and swiftly assess the situation and to advise Congress on what specific steps are being taken to deter such “telephone terrorism.” At least 10 such centers have received bomb threats in recent days, including the JCC Metrowest in West Orange. “Anti-Semitism, bomb threats, hate speech directed at synagogues and Jewish Community Centers must be immediately condemned and quickly investigated,” said Frelinghuysen. “This nation was built on the foundation of religious tolerance. Anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry are shameful and must end!” The letter Frelinghuysen is signing urges the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security to prosecute the perpetrators for violations of federal criminal laws, and to enable JCCs to enhance security measures in the event that an individual seeks to act on these threats. The JCC Association of North America reported that 54 Jewish community centers have faced 69 threats, including three waves of bomb threats, since January. They also follow the vandalism of 100 headstones at a Jewish cemetery in St. Louis. -30-
02.14.2017	MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY - U.S. Congressman Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised the students, faculty and staff of elementary schools in the 11th District who participated in his annual Valentines for Veterans project. “Each and every year, these hand-made, heartfelt messages from students lift the spirits of veterans confined to a hospital on Valentine’s Day,” said Frelinghuysen. “These schools have taken the time and the effort to extend a hand to men and women who served in our armed forces. I applaud their efforts.” Each year, Frelinghuysen, a Vietnam veteran, invites elementary students Across the 11th Congressional District to create “Valentines for Veterans” which are delivered to veterans in East Orange Veterans Administration (VA) Medical Center and Lyons VA Hospital Center. This year, he was accompanied by Jack Lane, an Army veteran of the Korean War and Past State Commander of the New Jersey Veterans of Foreign Wars in picking up Valentines at Good Shepherd Academy in Nutley. “I always ask a distinguished veteran to visit schools with me,” Frelinghuysen said. “Of course, the Valentines lift the spirits of hospitalized veterans. But these visits are also valuable ways for young people to learn more the sacrifices made by Americans veterans. Veterans are a symbol of what makes our nation great, and we must never forget all they have done to ensure our freedom.” “I am thankful for the fantastic work done by our students and equally grateful to our service members and their families for their contributions to our nation.” Other participating schools include: Hilltop Country Day School (Sparta), Ellen T. Briggs School (Hopatcong), Hudson Maxim Elementary (Hopatcong), Pope John Middle School (Spara), Durban Avenue School (Hopatcong), Morris Plains Borough School (Morris Plains), Rockaway Valley Elementary (Boonton), Dennis B. O’Brien School (Dover), Mendham Township Elementary, Peck School (Morristown), Sussex Avenue Elementary (Morristown), Mountain View School (Morris Plains), Ironia Elementary (Randolph), Littleton Elementary (Morris Plains), Lincoln Elementary (Rockaway), Southern Boulevard School (Chatham), Normandy Park School (Morristown), Stonybrook Elementary (Kinnelon), Rockaway Valley Elementary (Boonton), East Lake School (Parsippany), Parsippany Christian School (Parsippany), Mount Tabor School, Troy Hills Elementary (Parsippany), Littleton Elementary (Parsippany), St. Mary’s Prep (Denville), Interval Elementary (Boonton), Bee Meadow School (Hanover), Salem Drive Elementary (Whippany), Central Avenue School (Madison), Briarwood Road School (Florham Park), Central Elementary (Hanover), Frank J. Smith Elementary (Hanover), Lincoln Park School, Riverview Elementary (Denville), Divine Mercy Academy (Denville), Rockaway Meadow School (Parsippany), Cozy Lake Elementary (Oak Ridge), Lester C. Noecker (Roseland), Bradford School (Montclair), Watsessing Elementary (Bloomfield), Berkeley Elementary (Bloomfield), Good Shepard School (Nutley), Jefferson Elementary (Caldwell), Washington School (Nutley), Spring Garden Elementary (Nutley), Riker Hill Elementary (Livingston), Collins Elementary (Livingston), Fairview Elementary (Bloomfield), Forest Avenue Elementary (Verona), Albert Payson Terhune (Wayne), Immaculate Heart (Wayne), Thuenis Dey (Wayne), Lincoln School (Pompton Lakes), Lenox Elementary (Pompton Lakes), Washington Park Elementary (Totowa), Fallon Elementary (Wayne), Haskell Elementary, Academy of St. Francis of Assisi (Totowa).
02.14.2017	New Jersey League Of Municipalities Magazine by: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) - 1/1/17 The ceremony in early September did not garner a great deal of attention. The Star-Ledger and the Bergen Record covered the event. Some local television stations sent reporters. But, after more than 20 years of effort, the completion of the Harbor Deepening project at the Port of New York and New Jersey was truly momentous news! The project capped a cooperative endeavor that will touch the lives of 23 million Americans and potentially boost the fortunes of every manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer, transportation company, ‘Mom and Pop’ business and job-seeker up and down the east coast of the United States! Since its authorization by Congress in the late 90s, the Army Corps of Engineers, has been working in concert with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to deepen 38 miles of channels, to a depth of 50 feet, beginning south of the Verrazano Narrows Bridge and winding its way into waters between New Jersey and Staten Island. The goal is to allow the world’s largest container ships access to Port Newark/Port Elizabeth. The project is essential to maintaining the competitive position of our four major terminals, particularly now that the Panama Canal has been expanded to allow huge ships to transit between New Jersey and Asia. Why is this important? More than 90 percent of global trade, valued at over $1.7 trillion, moves by ship and the Port of New York and New Jersey is the largest port on the East Coast of North America and the third-largest in our nation, behind only Los Angeles and Long Beach, California. The Port is the unquestioned economic engine of northern New Jersey, spurring more than $22 billion in economic activity each year. The Port is responsible for $9.4 billion in personal income and more than $5 billion in annual tax revenues to state and local governments. Moreover, this project has already provided direct benefits over two-hundred sixty thousand people employed along the piers, docks and terminals and thousands more working in New Jersey companies that depend upon the cargoes hauled by these vessels. As a longtime member of the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Committee, and as its past chairman, the project has been, for more than twenty years, one of my highest priorities in Congress as it is essential to ensure that our Port remains the most attractive destination for international trading partners. But the efforts to complete this harbor deepening project have not always encountered smooth sailing. Frankly, for many years, it was very hard to focus the public attention of state and federal leaders on this maritime commercial and national security priority in our backyard! In bipartisan fashion, Senator Bob Menendez joined my efforts to protect funding and a remarkable coalition of the Port Authority, the Corps of Engineers, the Coast Guard, shippers, terminal operators, dredgers, unions and environmental organizations banded together to help bring this project to completion. While every member of this outstanding alliance navigated several significant challenges over the past twenty years, including serious economic recessions, the Army Corps deserves particular commendation. The Corps was able to complete this $2 billion project while simultaneously weathering Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, Superstorm Sandy in our region, flooding on the Mississippi and other calamities, while their commanders and soldiers repeatedly deployed to the war zones in Iraq and Afghanistan and while they played a key role in New York City’s recovery from the attacks of 9-11. As a result of these herculean efforts, the Harbor Deepening Project is putting our region in a good position to benefit from growing global trade. Here at home, these projects help retain current jobs and add new ones, and affect the cost of consumer goods up and down the East Coast. It is a true ‘win-win-win’ for our state. As I travel my Congressional District, talking with people on the street or in their small businesses, I meet people who have been job-hunting for years. While the “official” unemployment rate may be dropping, the labor participation rate in our country is as low as it has been since the ‘70s. As a result, “real” unemployment is much higher than advertised. The question should then occur to every citizen of our great State: where would our jobless rate in New Jersey be without a vital, active and growing Port Newark/Port Elizabeth?
02.03.2017	“We have known for years that Iran is the world foremost state sponsor of global terrorism. That is one of the reasons it was extremely dangerous for the Obama Administration to hand the mullahs in Teheran billions of dollars in sanctions relief in recent years. Today, in light of new illegal ballistic missiles tests, I welcome the new Administration’s swift action to crack down on Iran’s dangerous ballistic missile program and their threats to their neighbors, especially Israel.” ###
01.30.2017	“As part of his strategy to make the safety and security of the American people his top priority, President Trump believes a pause in immigration from unstable regions is warranted. However, this weekend’s confusion is an indication that the details of this executive order were not properly scrutinized. Among others, reconsideration should be given to courageous individuals who served as interpreters for our military and properly vetted refugees. “Congress has important oversight responsibilities over all executive orders, which we intend to exercise.” ###
01.13.2017	Frelinghuysen Wins Army Civilian Honor WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today was bestowed the United States Army’s highest civilian honor, the Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Public Service. Secretary of the Army, Eric Fanning, made the presentation in a ceremony in Frelinghuysen’s Washington office. “As an Army draftee many years ago, it never crossed my mind that the Secretary of the United States Army would see fit to honor me,” Frelinghuysen said. “But I am truly honored to receive the Army Civilian Public Service Award. Supporting our soldiers and their families —past and present—has been, and will remain, a number one priority for me.” The citation from Secretary Fanning states: “Representative Frelinghuysen was a tireless public servant advancing Congressional support for funding the Army to meet rapidly evolving threats to our nation’s security and ensuring Soldiers have what they need to succeed….His exceptional contributions were integral to the Army receiving the necessary support to support combat, sustain the all-volunteer force, and improve the quality of life for Soldiers, Civilians and Families. He vigorously supported Army efforts and worked diligently to overcome the fiscal and political challenges inherent in funding our national security priorities. Representative Frelinghuysen’s distinctive accomplishments and unwavering commitment reflect great credit upon him, the United States House of Representatives, and the United States of America. ” The Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service was established in May 1956. The Secretary of the Army awards this decoration to those who provide distinguished service that makes a substantial contribution to the accomplishment of the Army's missions. Frelinghuysen serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. He previously served as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. -30-
01.12.2017	Frelinghuysen Welcomes AF Decision on Tanker Basing New KC-46A Tankers Coming to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JBMDL) “The Air Force’s decision to base new KC-46 tankers in New Jersey is an endorsement of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst as one of the nation’s premier air mobility installations,” said Frelinghuysen. “Clearly, the strong work that aircraft and crews at McGuire have done over the years to maintain the critically important ‘air bridge’ from the continental U.S. to the Middle East, Europe, Africa and beyond put this base in a strong position.” As immediate past Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Frelinghuysen for years advocated for basing the KC-46 tanker at JBMDL with senior Air Force leaders, including Secretary Deborah Lee James, and various Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force. “The message over the years has been simple: McGuire has the location, the facilities, the experience and the workforce to ensure that the Air Force maintains its ‘global reach.’ Nothing is more important for the warfighter!” “I can’t think of a better base to host the new tanker,” said Frelinghuysen. “This is a good day for the nation, our military, New Jersey, the Joint Base and the 40,000 people who work there.” JBMDL is competing with many bases for the next Main Operating Base 4 (MOB 4) for the KC-46A, including bases Dover, Del., Abilene, Texas; Spokane, Wash., Grand Forks, N.D., Charleston, S.C.; Tacoma, Wash. Little Rock, Ark., Tampa, Fla. and Mascoutah, Ill.. Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, California was also selected as a MOB 4 “preferred alternative” for basing KC-46 tankers. The final basing decision is expected in the summer of 2018. The first new tankers are expected to arrive at JBMDL no later than the Spring of 2021. -30-
01.11.2017	Frelinghuysen Welcomes Trump VA Secretary Appointment Undersecretary David Shulkin was President of Morristown Medical Center WASHINGTON, D.C. – Declaring that President-Elect Donald Trump “chose extremely well,” U.S. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised the selection of Dr. David Shulkin as the next Secretary of Veterans Affairs. “David Shulkin knows healthcare, he knows veterans and he knows New Jersey, having served as the President of Morristown Medical Center,” said Frelinghuysen. “I am confident that Dr. Shulkin will deliver!” Shulkin was appointed Undersecretary for Health by President Obama in March of 2015 as the VA grappled with several scandals involving long wait times for veterans at VA hospitals, reports of a cover-up and skyrocketing construction costs at VA hospitals. “In a very tangible way, Dr. Shulkin has already helped New Jersey veterans,” said Frelinghuysen. “I met with him at this time last year to seek his support for the establishment of a Community-Based Outpatient Clinic in Sussex County,” said Frelinghuysen. “His assistance, coupled with our persistence, led to the opening of that clinic in Newton this week.” “Of course, much more work needs to be done to fix the widespread problems at the VA. Every day we must focus on needs of men and women veterans and improve the department’s ability to provide our veterans the care and benefits they have earned.” -30-
01.10.2017	The Honorable Leanna Brown January 7, 2017 Members of the Brown Family, Ambassador Roy, fellow elected officials, friends of Leanna Brown - Good morning. Thank you for attending this memorial for a true friend. I am honored to stand here on behalf of many men and women in elective office – past and present. WE all owe Leanna so much for her guidance, her keen interest, her good humor, her intellect with her Smith College education and her passion for politics and good public policy. And yes, for her dedication to successful Republicans and elections. Leanna – the name is evocative! Leanna Brown sat in the front row and the back row of this county and state’s life for decades – both a leader of great skill, and an advisor and mentor of great vision. She chose, at times, to do both, speaking out from the front row when others would not (for example, as a public leader, an author and columnist, writing personal notes of encouragement and praise!) and holding back from the rear to allow many other men and women to shine. Leanna Brown broke the glass ceiling well before many others. I will not use time here and now to recount the “List of Firsts” that she compiled (first councilwoman, Freeholder, Freeholder-Director, Assemblywoman, Republican State Senator) but we all understand that being “first” was never her goal. The words of a former Secretary of State apply very well to Leanna: She said, quote: "I think the truth of the matter is, people who end up as ‘first’ don’t actually set out to be first. They set out to do something they love and it just so happens that they are the first to do it." That former Secretary of State was another great American trailblazer: Condoleezza Rice. Leanna and I served together as freeholders in the 1970’s so I had the unique opportunity to witness firsthand her struggles with the “old boys’ network” that made up the Board in those days. They’d say “No Way”, Leanna” and pound the table and shake their heads! She was never deterred – she was resilient, resourceful and determined and our county and state is a better place because she was so unwavering and we respected her for her persistence! For example, our taxpayers may take for granted our county’s Triple-A Bond Rating, but it was during Leanna’s tenure on the Finance Committee that the county first earned it 43 years ago! Looking beyond that milestone, we see her mark in the creation of our county park system, the Morris Police and Fire Academy and the County College of Morris. All are “gold star” institutions that are second to none and an incredible source of pride for all of us. These were endeavors that Leanna encouraged, embraced and assured: Land purchased. Foundations dug. Classrooms occupied. Lives fulfilled! Throughout her county and state service, we watched Leanna with her many interns - young volunteers - as she went out of her way to urge talented young men and women to get involved with government. In this way, her legacy will be felt for decades to come, in their successes. Of course, we appreciate the fact that Leanna encouraged women to run for local, county, state and federal office, not only here in New Jersey, but across the nation. She supported equal rights for women and the Equal Rights Amendment to our Constitution before the Freeholder Board in 1976. ++++++++++ My friends, “never” is a powerful word but WE elected officials believe there will never be anyone like LEANNA again. Her support of all of us, her passions, her boundless energy. Her “big tent” Republican philosophy. Her ambassadorial dress. Her hats. Her clear vision for the future. Yes, Leanna Brown sat in the front row and the back row of our county and state’s life for decades. And WE are better for her many contributions. +++++++++++ To Bill, Stephen and the Brown family, you have much to be proud of. You are heirs to a wonderful family, having such exceptional parents as Stan and Leanna Brown. On behalf of so many elected officials, WE thank you for sharing her with us!
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Veterans from Sussex County and surrounding areas of northwest New Jersey will soon have another location to receive health care from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), according to U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). The VA says it now expects to open a Community Based Outpatient health care Clinic (CBOC) in Newton on January 9 at 222 High Street. A formal ribbon-cutting ceremony will be scheduled shortly thereafter. “For over two years, I have been working with my Congressional colleagues, Sussex Freeholders, state legislators and veterans leaders to bring greater access to health care to veterans in Sussex County by convincing the VA to establish a community health clinic,” said Frelinghuysen. “Of course, there have been bureaucratic obstacles along the way, but we would not back down in our efforts to get VA to do its job to serve those who have served us in uniform.” The Newton clinic will be open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Previously, Frelinghuysen was instrumental in the establishment of a veterans outpatient clinic in Morris Township. The VA's New Jersey Health Care System consists of two main “campuses" in East Orange and Lyons in Bernards Township with additional satellite clinics in Elizabeth, Hackensack, Hamilton, Jersey City, Paterson, Piscataway and Tinton Falls. Many veterans from Sussex County now use the Morris Township clinic - more than an hour's drive from parts of the county. Financial support for the Sussex CBOC will be provided through the annual Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill drafted by Frelinghuysen’s House Appropriations Committee. This legislation provides advanced funding for veterans health care, fully funds veterans’ benefits and programs and contains the dollars to house, train, and equip military personnel, provide housing and services to our troops’ families, and help maintain military base infrastructure. -30-
12.22.2016	Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen Announces Congressional App Challenge winner WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced a team of high school students from Wayne have won the third Congressional App Challenge. Teammates Kelly Wallert (Wayne Hills), Sangjun Ko (Wayne Hills), and Sruthi Soorian (Wayne Valley) created an app called “Book Browser.” “For the third year, I have been highly impressed by the STEM education and coding ability displayed by high school students of my Congressional District in the Congressional App Challenge,” Frelinghuysen said. “After viewing the student app submissions, I remain confident that the future of our nation’s technological prowess is in the most capable hands. Congratulations to Kelly, Sangjun, and Sruthi on their fantastic work.” “Nothing is more important to our Nation’s continued economic strength than developing the talents and expertise of students interested in STEM fields,” Frelinghuysen continued. The Congressionally chartered “Congressional App Challenge” is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The winning application, “Book Browser,” is an app designed to allow school libraries to communicate with one another to share book resources, so that unwanted or old versions of books do not get wasted. View the presentation here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VeFR5_YMlP8. More information about the competition can be found here: http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/. ###
12.02.2016	“I want to offer my thanks to the House Leadership and the Republican Steering Committee for allowing me to Chair the House Committee on Appropriations. “Next year, we have a unique opportunity to transform the size, scope and direction of government and the Appropriations Committee will be key to that effort! “We will exercise rigorous oversight in order to make every dollar count. “My commitment to every Member is to restore our role under the Constitution’s Article One, Section 9 – power of the purse – and to put Members back in charge of funding decisions. “I am ready to get to work!” ###
11.30.2016	Frelinghuysen Hails Passage of Cures Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Declaring it a potential opportunity to ‘turn the corner’ on cancer, pediatric disease and mental illness, U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised bipartisan House passage of the 21st Century Cures Act. “Diseases do not discriminate, and just about everyone knows somebody who has been stricken with a serious debilitating or deadly illness. Innovation and technological advances that increase productivity and our quality of life can also deliver more hope to patients and their families,” said Frelinghuysen. We can all agree that America must renew and update our health care research and maintain our global leadership in medical innovation. This bill is a strong step forward.” The 21st Century Cures Act provides $4.8 billion in new, fully paid for funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to aid in cures development, including funding for the "Cancer Moonshot." The bill encourages personalized medicine to find best treatments, incentivizes the development of drugs for childhood diseases, removes barriers for research collaboration, puts patients at the heart of the regulatory review process, and improves and strengthens Medicare to increase access for seniors to quality, affordable health care. In addition, this package of legislation encompasses sweeping mental health reforms to strengthen the nation's mental health workforce, improve mental health care for children or adults with serious mental illness. The measure establishes the National Mental Health and Substance Use Poly Lab to drive evidence-based grant making, which can lead to new, successful treatments and approaches to a range of mental illnesses. “Today, it takes 15 years for a new drug to move from the laboratory to the local pharmacy,” said Frelinghuysen. "That’s unacceptable and one of the reasons passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, is so important." “I was pleased to vote for the legislation when it passed the House today by a strong bipartisan vote of 392-26.” The bill now must be approved by the Senate before President Obama has the opportunity to sign it into law. XXX
11.18.2016	“President-elect Trump chose well when he selected Mike Pompeo as the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. As a colleague on the House Intelligence Committee, I know that Mike enjoys well-deserved respect as an influential voice on intelligence and security matters. I look forward to his confirmation by the Senate and to working closely with him in the years ahead to ensure that this key intelligence agency has the resources it needs to accomplish its important missions.” ###
10.03.2016	Today, maybe more than ever before, the American people are looking for answers to the challenges that face us at home and abroad. Earlier this summer, the House Leadership developed a wide-ranging agenda to confront many of these issues. While I do not agree with every plank of this program, I do believe it is a jumping off point for a wider national discussion. National Security For example, the plan offers a better way to secure our homeland and enhance our national security. With ISIS, al Qaeda and other terror groups on the attack, the plan offers a better way to go on the offense and secure our border. The plan also offers outlines for the kind of military we need to do execute the missions that we ask of our brave men and women serving in our military. And, as always, we have to support the families of those who serve and those who have served. Economy This agenda offers a better way for smart regulations so that businesses can have the certainty to go out and take risks to reach, to go higher, to pay people more, to create jobs. Constitution In many respects, we need to get our government back. This plan suggests that we can make sure the laws we live under in this country are actually written by the people we vote for in this country – not by unelected bureaucrats. Healthcare The Leadership has offered a better way to achieve a patient-centered health care system. The approach is to let patients, their families and doctors make their own decisions about what health care is best for them and their families. People are getting sick and tired of double-digit premium hikes and huge deductible increases. And it’s making it harder for families to afford basic health care. Tax Reform As I have been saying for years, our current tax code has got to go. This IRS is too intrusive. The tax code is too riddled with complexity, inequity and loopholes. The Leadership plan offers a great place to continue the discussion on pro-growth, job-creating tax reform. From my travels across my Congressional district, I am confident the polls are correct in this regard: seven out of 10 Americans do not think America is headed in the right direction. To change course, here are some potential solutions. There is a better way. While I do not agree with every tenet and detail of the Leadership’s plan, I do agree that we need to start an inclusive, aspirational discussion on these important issues. So I invite you to visit the “A Better Way” site and explore the Leadership’s plan.
09.21.2016	Frelinghuysen Welcomes Edison Statue to the U.S. Capitol Invites All to Visit Edison National Historic Park in West Orange, New Jersey WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today welcomed a statue of late scientist and inventor Thomas Alva Edison to National Statuary Hall in the United States Capitol. The statue will represent the state of Ohio, the birthplace and childhood home of Mr. Edison, as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection. As each state is given two representatives, Mr. Edison’s statue will join that of President James Garfield as Ohio’s contribution to the collection. “Mr. Edison was one of the world’s and New Jersey’s most creative and prolific inventors, developing devices like the phonograph, the first talking doll, the “movie” camera, nickel-iron alkaline electric storage battery and, notably, the electric light system,” said Frelinghuysen. “While he may have spent his earliest days in the Buckeye State, he did most of his genius work in New Jersey and I am proud to invite all Americans to visit the Thomas Edison National Historic Park in West Orange as the National Park Service celebrates its 100th anniversary!” Thomas Alva Edison was born February 11, 1847 in Milan, Ohio. In 1854, when he was seven, the family moved to Michigan, where Edison spent the rest of his childhood. He also lived in Kentucky, Massachusetts and New York City before moving to Newark, New Jersey in 1870 and later on to Menlo Park, New Jersey. In 1884, “The Wizard of Menlo Park” purchased a home known as "Glenmont" in 1886 as a wedding gift for his second wife in Llewellyn Park in West Orange. The Thomas Edison National Historical Park preserves Edison's laboratory and residence in Essex County. Edison’s 40 years of labor had a major impact on the lives of people across the globe. Out of these laboratories came his most notable inventions. He holds nearly 1,100 U.S. patents, as well as many patents in the United Kingdom, France, and Germany. “By virtue of the work he did, largely in New Jersey, from 1970 to 1931, the whole world thought of him as a ‘genius,’” Frelinghuysen said. “But the lesson of Edison’s life is that it takes hard work to succeed. He reminded us that ‘Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration.’" “We are honored to welcome his statute to the Capitol of the United States.” Learn more about the Thomas Edison National Historic Park here.
09.19.2016	"This weekend’s bombings in New York and New Jersey and today’s arrest in Linden remind us that we remain a nation at war and we can never let down our guard. We thank law enforcement, homeland security officials and the intelligence community for their tireless work to keep us all safe." ###
09.19.2016	Inspection includes visits to six Superfund sites in Morris, Essex & Sussex counties. Morristown, NJ - Joined by U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and senior New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) officials, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today continued his annual inspection of Superfund sites in the 11th Congressional District that are currently on the EPA's National Priorities List (NPL). “It is vital for me to personally visit and evaluate progress being made on Superfund sites in my congressional district,” Frelinghuysen said. “I make it a point to communicate to both federal and state agencies that we must continue to move in the right direction, expand on the progress that has already been madeand complete these important clean-up projects.” "New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state in the nation but considerable headway has been made,” he added. “Since 1980 when the Superfund program began, 34 sites in New Jersey have been removed from the National Priority List." Stops on the Congressman’s 2016 Superfund tour include: the Mansfield Trail Dump in Byram Township, Sussex County, Radiation Technology Inc., Rockaway Township, Morris County, Rockaway Township Wells, Rockaway Township, Morris County, Rockaway Borough Well Field, Rockaway Borough, Morris County, Unimatic Manufacturing Corp and Caldwell Trucking in Township of Fairfield, Essex County. Currently, 114 Superfund sites are located in New Jersey, including 10 in the 11th Congressional District. Frelinghuysen is being joined on the tour by Catherine McCabe, Deputy Regional Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency Region 2, state NJDEP representatives and legislators and local elected officials. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has been named a “Guardian of Small Business Award” by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The award, presented in a Capitol ceremony, was presented by NFIB’s CEO, Juanita Duggan, in recognition of Rep. Frelinghuysen’s “strong small business voting record in the 114th Congress.” “Small business is the catalyst for our nation’s economic growth, which creates almost two out of every three net new private sector jobs,” Frelinghuysen said. “Across my congressional district, I too often hear that small business job creators are hamstrung by excessive federal red tape and high taxes. I will continue to fight in Congress to get government off the back of our small business owners to allow them to build their businesses and create jobs.” “I thank NFIB for their work on behalf of the small business community. We want America’s entrepreneurs to thrive in the years to come,” Frelinghuysen concluded. ###
09.09.2016	NorthJersey.com: In remembrance of 9/11
09.01.2016	Bayonne, New Jersey – Declaring that it has been “an investment that affects every family and business on the East Coast,” U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony today marking the completion of the Harbor Deepening Project at the Port of New York and New Jersey. "It has been my pleasure to make the New York/New Jersey Harbor Deepening a personal priority in Congress for over twenty years on the House Appropriations Committee. ‘Hats off’ to the Army Corps, the Port Authority and its partners for a job well done for our states and nation!" “This Port is the economic engine for northern New Jersey,” Frelinghuysen said. “Ninety percent of global trade moves by ship, so I have made it one of my highest priorities in Congress to ensure the Port of New York and New Jersey, the largest port on the east coast, remains the most attractive destination for international trading partners. This project has already provided direct benefits over two-hundred thousand people employed along the piers, docks and terminals and thousands more working in New Jersey companies that depend up on the cargo of these vessels. At the same time, the port generates billions of dollars in annual tax revenues to state and local governments.” Through his work as the lone New Jersey member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and past Chairman of the Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, Frelinghuysen secured hundreds of millions of federal dollars for the Harbor Deepening Project since its authorization in 1997. By dredging the main channel from a depth of 40 feet to 50 feet, the Port of New York and New Jersey will be able to accommodate the newest container ships, which will be sailing along the U.S. east coast, now that the upgraded Panama Canal has opened to the largest ships on earth. “This project is a proud example of how government and industry can work together to enhance our economy. This vital project was supported by federal, state and local governments and the private sector. I commend the remarkable collaboration among the Port Authority, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Coast Guard, shippers, terminal operators, unions and environmental organizations for their vision and leadership in bringing this project to completion,” Frelinghuysen said.
08.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced the kick-off of the third “Congressional App Challenge,” which officially opened July 18. This competition is open to all high school students in the 11th Congressional district. “The Congressional App Challenge has time and again displayed the remarkable technology prowess of our local high school students across northern New Jersey,” Frelinghuysen said. “I believe this competition gives us a view into the creativity and skill of New Jersey’s next generation of technology stars.” The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Congressional App Challenge will last from July 18, 2016 through November 2, 2016, and is open to all U.S. high school students in participating districts. Challenge participants are invited, either as individuals or as teams, to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. A panel of local computer science professionals will judge the apps, and the winners in each district will have the honor of being recognized by their Congressional representative. “Nothing is more important to our Nation’s continued economic strength than developing the talents and expertise of students interested in STEM fields,” Frelinghuysen continued. “I look forward to viewing the submissions of students from New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District and urge all students to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity.” More information, including a full list of rules, can be found here: http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/.
08.01.2016	“Our men and women in uniform have represented all faiths since the Revolutionary War, and we owe a huge debt, especially to those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice, and we will forever honor the families of those who serve and have served." ###
07.26.2016	
06.16.2016	Strong Bipartisan Support for Frelinghuysen’s Defense Appropriations Act House Approves FY 2017 Military Funding bill 282-138 WASHINGTON, D.C. --The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill. The legislation funds critical national security needs, including military operations, readiness programs and intelligence activities, as well as health and quality-of-life programs for our troops and military families. “In an increasingly dangerous and rapidly changing world, we must guarantee that our armed forces and intelligence community have the capability to defeat barbaric Islamic terror groups and deter aggressor-nations, like Russia, Iran, China, and North Korea,” said Defense Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). “This bill recognizes the critical need for increased funding for more training, readiness and equipment and provides for military families. And our heightened oversight ensures that every dollar counts.” The legislation meets the overall defense spending limits set by law for fiscal year 2017, providing $517.1 billion in discretionary funding – an increase of $3 billion above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $587 million below the President’s budget request. The bill also provides $58.6 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding – the level allowed under current law. Following the lead of the recently-passed National Defense Authorization Act of 2017, the legislation targets approximately $16 billion of this OCO/GWOT funding to meet readiness, training needs within the base Pentagon budget. “Over the past several years, our military and intelligence community has largely focused on the dangers posed by Islamic terrorist organizations – al Qaeda, the barbaric ISIS, Al Nusra and others. They remain a clear and present danger,” said Frelinghuysen. “But in recent years, new threats have emerged including a more aggressive and more capable Russia, an expansionist China, emboldened states like Iran and rogue nations like North Korea. At the same time, our readiness levels are alarmingly low for our soldiers, Marines, sailors and airmen, our decisive technological edge over our adversaries is eroding and our adversaries’ resolve and capability are only growing. Our FY 2017 Defense Appropriations bill begins to reverse these trends by providing more fundingfor national security,” he said. “This bill fulfills the Congress’s primary responsibility – providing for the common defense while respecting the taxpayer by making commonsense budgeting decisions,” Chairman Frelinghuysen said. -30-
06.16.2016	
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Calling it the “right step for New Jersey and the nation,” U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen today hailed the formal federal designation of New Jersey Task Force One (NJ-TF1), the state’s Urban Search and Rescue Team. Frelinghuysen was notified this afternoon by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Strategic Group had earlier unanimously recommended that New Jersey Task Force 1 (NJ-TF1) join the nation’s 28 team National Urban Search & Rescue System. “Let’s face it, we live in an increasingly dangerous world and these search and rescue teams, professionals and volunteers alike, are our best and most important lines of defense,” said Frelinghuysen. “In their hands is one of our nation’s greatest missions: protecting our homeland. This final, formal federal designation will enhance New Jersey’s security, provide the Task Force with more funding for training and equipment and ensure they remain at the ‘top of their game’ in the event of any disaster.” FEMA considered a number of factors, including experience, population density, critical infrastructure, the number and age of structures in proximity to the team’s base location, geographic coverage and threat assessment. “Well before the tragedy of September 11, 2001, the members of the New Jersey Task Force One Urban Search and Rescue Team were on their way to the World Trade Center - among the first search and rescue teams on the ground that fateful morning,” Frelinghuysen said. “Not only have the members of this team proven they are worthy of such designation – there is no question about it, New Jersey needs its own federally supported team. Frankly, we should have to wait no longer. FEMA should have made this designation years ago!” Frelinghuysen first introduced legislation to provide federal designation of NJ-TF in 2002. His bill sought expansion of the national urban search and rescue system and a federal designation for the New Jersey team. He wrote earlier this year to the Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, a resident of Montclair, outlining the case for NJ-TF1 and later spoke to FEMA Direrctor Craig Fugate. “Recognizing our state as being one of the most densely populated areas of the country, over the past year FEMA has developed and carried out exercises to increase community emergency preparedness for various disasters, including oil train spills, pandemic outbreaks and extreme weather events.” Members of the team, which is supported by the New Jersey State Police, hail from all 21 counties. Frelinghuysen’s current legislation, H.R. 559, is co-sponsored by nine members of the New Jersey House delegation: Reps. Smith, LoBiondo, Lance, Pallone, Watson-Coleman, McArthur, Norcross, Pascrell and Sires. ########
05.31.2016	Daily Record: CCM holds graduation ceremonies
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen has been named a “Hero of Main Street” by the National Retail Federation (NRF) for his work “to encourage a vibrant, sustained and healthy retail sector.” “The fight for jobs in America, including retail jobs, is an everyday struggle against higher taxes, overbearing and unnecessary regulations and stifling bureaucracy,” said Frelinghuysen. “Our businesses want government to get out of their way and I am proud to stand with the NRF Rep. Frelinghuysen has been named a “Hero of Main Street” since 2013. “This bipartisan group of lawmakers has shown that they care about retailers big and small and value the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “We appreciate their advocacy on behalf of a thriving Main Street, their support for the long-term growth of the retail industry, and their recognition of retail’s role as a catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” The ‘Heroes of Main Street’ awards were created by NRF in 2013 to recognize Members of Congress for outstanding support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities including international trade, infrastructure investment, tax reform and labor issues. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. -30-
05.17.2016	
05.17.2016	Statement of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee on approval of the FY17 Defense Appropriations bill: Thank you, Mr. Chairman for the time. I’d like to begin by paying tribute to those who are not with us today – our men and women in uniform who serve all across the globe defending our freedom. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines provide the mantle of security that allows us to meet in settings like this every day and they never should be far from our minds. They – and their families - deserve our heartfelt thanks for their personal sacrifice. I also want to thank you, Chairman Rogers and Ms. Lowey, for your support throughout the process and for the expedited Subcommittee mark-up that allows us to be here today! Special thanks to Pete Visclosky for his partnership in this effort. We have spent a lot of time together with military leaders, and representatives of the intelligence community and I thank him for his assistance and collaboration. I would be remiss if I did not recognize two departing members of the Subcommittee – Ander Crenshaw and Steve Israel – for their significant contributions. This is their final Defense mark-up and they will be missed for many reasons. Mr. Chairman, I rise to present the Defense Subcommittee’s recommendation for the FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. I also want thank each of member of the Subcommittee for their loyal attendance at the 11 hearings and numerous briefings (many of them closed and classified) that helped shape this legislation. These meetings allowed us to look - in great detail - into our national defense posture and the capabilities of our adversaries and our partners. We are concerned by what we see. Over the past several years, we have largely focused on the dangers posed by Islamic terrorist organizations – al Qaeda, the barbaric ISIS, Al Nusra and others. But in recent years, new threats have emerged: • A more aggressive and more capable Russia; • An expansionist China; • Emboldened states like Iran; • Rogue nations like North Korea; At the same time, we were dealing with fiscal constraints imposed by sequestration and budget caps. Looking today at our Department of Defense and Intelligence Community we note: • our readiness levels are alarmingly low for our soldiers, Marines, sailors and Airmen; • our decisive technological edge over our adversaries is eroding; • our adversaries’ resolve and their capability are only growing. The bill before you begins to reverse these trends by providing more money for national security. Our recommendation mirrors the funding structure that the House Armed Services Committee introduced a few weeks ago and shifts $16 billion from the President’s OCO request into the base bill, while providing a “bridge fund” for our overseas operations through the end of April 2017. By that time, the new Commander-in-Chief will be able to assess our defense posture, reevaluate readiness levels and recapitalization efforts and request a targeted supplemental to support our troops. I am confident that members of this Committee will work in a bipartisan way to ensure that this essential supplemental appropriations legislation is passed when the time comes. Rest assured that we will never let our troops down! By providing a “bridge fund” to next April, rather than an entire year of funding, this bill is able to make targeted investments in additional manning for the Army, Marines and Air Force, more training, as well as the equipment they rely upon – all designed to repair the worrisome readiness gaps we see across our Armed Forces. Funding for base requirements totals $532.8 billion, $15.1 billion above the President’s budget request. In order to “make every dollar count,” we exercised our oversight responsibilities vigorously and reduced funding from programs that have: • seen unjustified cost increases; • been subject to contract or schedule delays; • been restructured or terminated; • include funding requested ahead of need, • seen historical under-execution. As a result of this work, (and I thank the staff for their efforts) we were able to increase funding for: • the number of troops (adding 52,000 – 27,000 active component/25,000 Guard and Reserves) and their training by $9.4 billion over the President’s request, and • for equipment the Service Chiefs have requested in their unmet needs list to approximately $9.6 billion. These investments will allow all our military services to fully meet critical training requirements such as flying hours and ground training, improve our facilities, and increase the number of our troops to reverse years of reductions. The recommendation ensures that our military and intelligence community are able to begin to rebuild their advantages over our near-peer adversaries. We currently have the lowest manning level in the Army since before World War II and this legislation boosts Army – and Marine Corps – end strength. Our Navy fleet is now smaller than at any time since before World War I and this bill funds a significant increase in shipbuilding. Our Air Force is flying the oldest fleet in its entire history and this measure boosts modernization of our fighters, bombers, tankers and other aircraft. I also want to note that our legislation again includes $500 million to continue our investment in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) for our Combatant Commanders. I’ve been pleased by the aggressiveness with which the Department of Defense has used the additional resources provided this year, and look forward to working with them again in fiscal year 2017. Mr. Chairman, as I close, I want to make an observation about this year’s debate. The President’s spokesman and the Secretary of Defense were quick to criticize the funding structure of the National Defense Authorization bill and, indeed, this morning’s proposal. The White House and Secretary Carter have suggested that we are “gambling” with the troops’ mission in the Middle East. • What was really “gambling” was the Administration’s decision to pull our troops from Iraq and Afghanistan -against the advice of our military leadership - and not anticipate that the resulting vacuum would be filled by ISIS, the Taliban and other terrorist groups! • What was “gambling” was ousting Khadafy in Libya without any plan for the aftermath! • It is gambling to believe that Iran will not violate many aspects of the Geneva agreement! • …that the American people would not pay attention to increased U.S. military operations in Syria and Iraq if the President simply refused to call them “combat operations.” • It was gambling to establish a poorly- thought-out and poorly-executed “train and equip” scheme in Syria. • …that China and Russia would cease their aggressive challenges to American superiority in the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic. My friends, one thing that we all can agree upon is that the last few years of budget cuts and constant deployments have only eroded our readiness and capabilities. The bill before you does not “gamble.” Rather, this proposal wisely invests • more money for more troops • more training, • modern equipment, • expanded cyber security, • more intelligence-gathering capability and • better healthcare outcomes for our troops and their families. The Constitution says the primary job of Congress is to provide for the common defense. The bill before you allows us to fulfill that important responsibility in an increasingly dangerous world. I thank my Colleagues for their attention and urge adoption of the recommendation.
04.14.2016	Observer Tribune: Frelinghuysen visits Morris County Farmers-Sportsmens Federations 36th annual venison dinner
04.14.2016	Wayne Valley, Mendham Students Win 11th Congressional District 2016 Art Competition MORRISTOWN, NEW JERSEY -- Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced the winner, runners-up, and honorable mentions of the 2016 Congressional Arts Competition. Jane Lee of Wayne Valley High School won the competition with her acrylic painting entitled “Chrome Still-Life;” Emma Jang of Mendham High School placed second with her piece titled “Tenacity;” Tyler Harker of West Morris Mendham High School placed third with his piece entitled “Opal;” Leonela Moyoli of Boonton High School earned an honorable mention for her piece titled “Tyran Moore;” Jasmine Shaw of Livingston High School earned an honorable mention for her piece titled “There’s No Place like Homeland;” Connor Sokol of Sparta High School earned an honorable mention for his piece titled “Freedom’s flight;” Camila Rosario of Wayne Valley High School earned an honorable mention for her piece titled “Stressed Out.” “Each year, the Congressional Arts Competition reminds me of the marvelous artistic talent of high school students in every corner of my Congressional District,” Frelinghuysen said. “I was extremely impressed by all of the 67 entries submitted by students from twenty-five different schools and offer my congratulations to Jane Lee of Wayne on her first place work.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. Rep. Frelinghuysen hosted the 2016 Congressional Art Competition on Monday April 11 at the Morris Museum. Independent judges determined the winners as well as those art works that received honorable mention.
04.13.2016	NJ.com: Congressman Frelinghuysen and Chatham Mayor Ritter visit Southern Boulevard School
04.13.2016	Sparta Independent: Sparta Youth Achieves Civil Air Award
03.23.2016	Neighbor News: Representative Frelinghuysen visits Valleyview in Denville
03.03.2016	U.S. Army U.S. Navy and Marines U.S. AIr Force
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) told the senior leadership of the U.S. Army today “we know these are dangerous times, and we will do everything it can to provide you with the resources you need to perform your mission – even if they are not in your budget request.” At a public hearing in the U.S. Capitol, Frelinghuysen said “We have to work together to make sure the Army has the right number of soldiers and right degree of readiness.” Joined by Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley, Acting Army Secretary Patrick Murphy agreed. “Readiness is critical for three reasons: 1) readiness wins wars: 2) readiness deters threats and re-assures our allies; 3) readiness prepares our forces for future conflicts.” The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing was conducted as the Army remains engaged around the world and against the backdrop of increasing threats. “In Afghanistan, the Army is trying to secure the hard-fought gains we made over the past 15 years of conflict, even as plans for our departure have been postponed. We have soldiers ‘advising and assisting’ – and still in harm’s way – in Iraq and Syria and Africa. The Army has a missile defense mission in the Persian Gulf and peacekeeping mission in the Sinai. Over 28,000 soldiers stand alert in South Korea against the unpredictable regime to the north. At the same time, the Army stands against Russian belligerence in Europe and acts to deter a newly aggressive China.” Members of the Subcommittee covered many other issues at the hearing, including Army aviation modernization, the future size of the force, unmanned aerial systems and artillery modernization among other topics. Today’s hearing was the latest in a series of open defense posture and budget oversight hearings Chairman Frelinghuysen is conducting with the military services, combatant commands and other major components of our armed forces. ########
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) told the senior leadership of the U.S. Air Force today that modernization of Air Force platforms and weapons systems cannot be deferred. “We now have the oldest Air Force aircraft in history and the smallest Air Force in years and we must recognize that our adversaries are closing the technological gap. At a public hearing in the U.S. Capitol, Chairman Frelinghuysen told Deborah Lee James, Secretary of the Air Force, and General Mark Welsh, “ while you are necessarily focusing on the threats posed by ISIS, al Qaeda and the Taliban, Russia and China are racing ahead to modernize and build front-line air forces. Consequently, we must continue efforts to maintain our current air power edge.” The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing was conducted against the backdrop of increasing threats. “The Chinese Air Force, the third largest Air Force in the world, is rapidly closing the gap with ours across a broad spectrum of capabilities: quality of their aircraft, command and control, radar, electronic warfare, and data links. China also possesses one of the largest forces of advanced long-range surface-to-air missiles in the world and some pretty sophisticated space infrastructure. Russia is procuring new Su-35S Flanker fighters and developing the fifth generation PAK FA stealth fighter. The Kremlin also plans to build 56 long-range advanced S-400 surface-to-air missile battalions. Elsewhere, Iran and other nations are working to buy additional advanced air defense systems from Russia.” Members of the Subcommittee covered many other issues with the Air Force, including, assured U.S. access to space, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the future Long Range Strike Bomber program, the size of the Air Force and its readiness, among other topics. Today’s hearing was the latest in a series of open defense posture and budget oversight hearings Chairman Frelinghuysen is conducting with the military services, combatant commands and other major components of our armed forces. ########
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Declaring that “the strategy of playing catch-up is not a winning formula,” the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) told the Navy’s senior leaders today that “we need to get this right and we need to get this right now” when it comes to the tension between Naval ‘posture versus presence.’ At a public hearing in the U.S. Capitol, Chairman Frelinghuysen told Ray Mabus, Secretary of the Navy, and Admiral John Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations, “When it comes to ships, numbers matter. Quantity has a quality all its own. However, we need to ensure that these ships have the capabilities necessary to deter and confront our adversaries, especially China and Russia. We must find a way to have numbers and capabilities.” The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing was conducted against the backdrop of increasing threats. “Every day brings another report regarding China’s attempts to assert themselves in the western Pacific. They are building ships, submarines, underwater submarine pens, naval militia forces and cutting edge weapons at an alarming rate, and all simultaneously! In the South China Sea, they construct runways, air defense radar systems and missile batteries on disputed islands. They are bent on denying us access to airspace and challenge us at every opportunity. Their actions test our Rules of Engagement on a regular basis!” Members of the Subcommittee covered many other issues with the Navy leaders and the Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Robert Neller, including, the shipbuilding industrial base, challenges from ISIS in the Middle East and northern Africa, Chinese military development of the South China Sea, Russian naval activity in the Arctic, Atlantic and Mediterranean basins, Naval acquisition, Naval and Marine Corps readiness among others. Today’s hearing was the latest in a series of open defense posture and budget hearings Chairman Frelinghuysen is conducting with the military services, combatant commands and other major components of our armed forces.
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee began its examination of the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request and the posture of the United States military and intelligence community, the Secretary of Defense assured Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) that the naval station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba will remain in U.S. hands. With the President’s announced visit to Cuba, there has been substantial speculation that he might announce the transfer of the base to the Castro brothers. Frelinghuysen asked Secretary Ash Carter "Can you assure us there's no plan for any change of our operations and historic role there?" Carter responded that "I know of no such plans." Frelinghuysen also questioned the size and structure of the President’s proposed defense budget. “The security environment used by the Department to justify a shrinking Army and Marine Corps, a smaller Navy, an older Air Force, does not exist! In fact, we face more serious threats from more sources than at any time since World War Two.” “Russia occupies Crimea and continues to menace Ukraine, its neighbors and our NATO partners. China is building whole islands in the South China Sea and militarizing them, yet this Administration suggests cutting an already-inadequate shipbuilding budget. Syria, is a living “hell on earth” and devolving even further by the day, with Russian and Iranian sponsorship – and we seem to be “deconflicting” our operations with these adversaries! ISIS has a major franchise in Libya, its base of operations in North Africa – 160 miles of Mediterrean coastline. Terrorism is like a cancer across the world, and this budget does not do enough to halt its spread.” Frelinghuysen asserted “this budget mortgages future military capabilities to pay for today’s urgent requirements.” “Our adversaries measure our strength based on our military capability AND our national will. Currently, our adversaries and our allies question both. Members of our Committee hear this repeatedly from foreign leaders as we travel abroad or meet them here at home as they watch our foes continually test us without consequence.” ######
02.26.2016	I am pleased to welcome the 25th Secretary of Defense, Ashton Carter. This is Dr. Carter’s second appearance before the Subcommittee as Secretary although we know him well from his many years of service to our country. We also welcome General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Dr. Michael McCord, the Comptroller of the Department. Mr. Secretary, Prime Minister Winston Churchill observed 70 years ago: “From what I have seen of our Russian friends and allies during the war, I am convinced that …there is nothing they admire so much as strength and there is nothing for which they have less respect than for weakness, especially military weakness.” Churchill was referring to the post-war leadership in Moscow, but the same can be said today. And I fear that, as they examine this Administration’s budget request, they have to be breathing a sigh of relief. One year ago, in this same room, we were told by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs (Martin Dempsey) that last year’s budget request represented the “lower ragged edge” of resources the Department needs to carry out its strategy. The budget request before us today is almost exactly the same amount as last year’s and yet this Administration now claims it provides “robust funding” for your Department! Mr. Secretary, “Lower ragged edge” or “Robust funding”? The security environment used by the Department to justify a shrinking Army and Marine Corps, a smaller Navy, an older Air Force, does not exist! In fact, we face more serious threats from more sources than at any time since World War Two: Russia occupies Crimea and continues to menace Ukraine, its neighbors and our NATO partners. China is building whole islands in the South China Sea and militarizing them, yet this Administration suggests cutting an already-inadequate shipbuilding budget. Many of our gains in Afghanistan have been reversed while the Taliban - and now ISIS - await our departure. Iran’s global terrorist network just received a massive transfusion of money and continues to challenge our interests and our allies in the Iraq, Syria, Yemen and across the Middle East; Syria, is a living “hell on earth” and devolving even further by the day, with Russian and Iranian sponsorship – and we seem to be “deconflicting” our operations with both! ISIS has a major franchise in Libya, its base of operations in North Africa – 160 miles of Mediterrean coastline; Terrorism is like a cancer across the world, and this budget does not do enough to halt its spread. Moreover, many of us on this Committee are concerned that this budget mortgages future military capabilities to pay for today’s urgent requirements. Mr. Secretary. our Commander-in-Chief proclaimed in his State of the Union address, “We spend more on our military than the next eight nations combined” – as if dollars and cents are the only yardstick by which we measure the effectiveness of our Armed Forces and the strength of our global leadership. Our adversaries measure our strength based on our military capability AND our national will. Currently, our adversaries and our allies question both. Members of our Committee hear this repeatedly from foreign leaders as we travel abroad or meet them here at home as they watch our foes continually test us without consequence. Mr. Secretary, I also want to bring to your attention a concern that many share about the activities of the National Security Council. It has come to our attention, repeatedly, that rules of engagement for our special forces and rules of engagement for our conventional forces, are being micromanaged right out of the White House! I am sure you would agree that battlefield decisions should be left to our military professionals! In closing, I can assure you that a bipartisan majority in Congress stands ready to provide our Commander-in-Chief with the resources that our military needs to defeat the Islamic state, al Qaeda and other lethal terrorist groups, with or without the strategy that the law requires. In fact, the 2016 NDAA required the Administration to provide a strategy to counter violent extremists by Monday of last week. We’re still waiting.
02.05.2016	Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announces 2016 Congressional Art Competition Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced that the 2016 Congressional Art Competition is officially open to entrants. He invites all high school age students from New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District, which includes 54 municipalities in Morris, Essex, Passaic and Sussex counties, to participate. “Each year, the students from my Congressional District astonish me with their artistic talent in this competition,” Frelinghuysen said. “I eagerly await my art competition reception to review the works.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. The 2015 winner, “The Joy and Innocence of Childhood,” by Camila Rosario of Wayne has been displayed in the Capitol over the past several months. The deadline for art submissions is 5:00pm on March 31, 2016 to Congressman Frelinghuysen’s Morristown office: 30 Schuyler Place, Morristown NJ, 07960. There will be a reception honoring the winners at the Morris Museum on April 11, 2016 from 5:30pm to 7:00pm. Specific guidelines and release forms for students can be found on Frelinghuysen’s website here: http://frelinghuysen.house.gov/district-events/2016-congressional-art-competition/. Please contact Congressman Frelinghuysen’s Morristown office at 973-984-0711 should you have any questions. -30-
02.04.2016	Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen continues Valentines for Veterans tour Morristown, NJ- Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced the 2016 Valentines for Veterans tour! “It is my honor to have helped deliver these handmade valentines from our children to the veterans at VA Hospitals in our area each year. I have seen firsthand how touched our veterans are to know that their sacrifices have not been forgotten,” Frelinghuysen said. “I’m proud the young students of my congressional district take the time to convey the gratitude we all feel for our veterans.” Each year, Congressman Frelinghuysen delivers valentines created by local students to veterans in East Orange VA Medical Center and Lyons VA Hospital Center. Upon request and for your planning purposes, here is the list of schools Rep. Frelinghuysen will visit on Friday, February 5, 2016 during his Valentine for Veterans tour: 11:30am: Rockaway Meadow Elementary School, 160 Edwards Rd, Parsippany NJ 07054 12:45pm: Hazel Avenue Elementary School, 45 Hazel Ave, West Orange NJ 07052 2:00pm: Theunis Dey School, 55 Webster Drive, Wayne NJ 07470
02.03.2016	Key House Committee approves Highlands Conservation Act extension Washington, DC – In a significant step forward for the legislation, the House Natural Resources Committee today approved Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen’s (NJ-11) bill, H.R. 894, to extend the authorization of the Highlands Conservation Act (HCA). Passage of H.R. 894 by the Natural Resources Committee advances the legislation toward floor consideration by the House of Representatives. “This legislation recognizes what many New Jerseyans already know: the Highlands is a critical watershed region which provides drinking water for millions. It must be protected,” Frelinghuysen said. “While we have been successful in protecting thousands of acres over the last decade, there is still work to be done. It is imperative that we continue to promote work in public-private partnerships with our local and county officials to maximize open space in the Highlands, while ensuring private property rights.” Originally authored by Frelinghuysen in 2004, the HCA is an integral part of a continuing effort to protect the drinking water supply for 11 million Americans in the northeast United States and reaffirms the federal commitment toward the preservation of the Highlands as a national priority. Since 2004, the HCA authorized $10 million per year for land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases from willing sellers. Additionally, the law authorized one million dollars annually for the Forest Service to provide continued technical assistance and research in the four-state Highlands region: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut. Frelinghuysen’s bill continues to allow the federal government to match municipal, county and state efforts already in place. Most recently, the FY16 Omnibus Appropriations bill provided $10 million for the HCA. To date, over $27 million has been appropriated for the HCA, which has protected over 5,500 acres in the 4-state Highlands Region. H.R. 894 would extend the HCA through 2021. H.R. 894 is cosponsored by New Jersey Representatives Scott Garrett (NJ-5), Leonard Lance (NJ-7), and Bill Pascrell (NJ-9). -30-
01.26.2016	Canal Society of New Jersey: Passaic County's Morris Canal Greenway
01.13.2016	“It has been clear for years that President Obama has squandered his State of the Union speeches by pushing partisan policies most Americans don’t support and that rarely see the light of day in Congress. Last night, the President had a final opportunity to offer a positive vision that all Americans can support. “We wanted to hear how the President will allow the United States to resume its vital leadership role in the world by: Offering tangible action plans to destroy ISIS, al Qaeda and other terrorist groups; Supporting our friends (like Israel, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Ukraine) and deter our adversaries (like Russia, China and Iran); Rebuilding our flagging military strength and securing our borders; “We wanted to hear the President finally embrace a pro-growth economic agenda that: Reforms our broken tax code…so job creators can grow and increase jobs and wages. Strengthens entitlement programs…so they will be there for future generations. Cuts Washington red tape …so our economy can thrive and grow. Promotes trade and American goods…so our New Jersey workers can win in the global market. Repeals Obamacare’s burdensome mandates…so people can actually have choices for their doctors and their insurance. Supports the law enforcement community. “But more than talk, the American people want action. We should be moving forward with a positive, pro-growth agenda that will protect our homeland, strengthen our economy and help more Americans get back to work.”
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - New Jersey Task Force One (NJ-TF1) today took another step toward inclusion in the federal Urban Search and Rescue Team as the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) upheld its earlier decision to exclude New Mexico’s team from participation in the National Urban Search and Rescue Response System. This decision means that there is an official vacancy in FEMA’s 28 team National Urban Search & Rescue System. The US&R peer-based Strategic Group reviewed potential replacement Task Forces and unanimously recommended New Jersey Task Force One (NJ-TF1) as the potential replacement Task Force. The System will now move forward with the review and assessment process for NJ-TF1. In order to be officially appointed and capable of deploying, NJ-TF1 must pass an on-site FEMA Readiness Assessment Evaluation. “Today’s action represents another strong step forward for New Jersey and the nation,” said U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). “A final, formal federal designation will enhance New Jersey’s security, provide the Task Force with more funding for training and equipment and ensure they remain at the ‘top of their game’ in the event of an emergency.” Frelinghuysen first introduced legislation to provide federal designation of NJ-TF in 2002. His bill sought expansion of the national urban search and rescue system and a federal designation for NJ-TF1. He wrote earlier this year to the Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, a resident of Montclair, outlining the case for NJ-TF1 and later spoke to FEMA Direrctor Craig Fugate. “Recognizing our state as being one of the most densely populated areas of the country, over the past year FEMA has developed and carried out exercises to increase community emergency preparedness for various disasters, including oil train spills, pandemic outbreaks and extreme weather events.” In making its unanimous recommendation, the US&R Strategic Group considered a number of factors to include experience, population density, critical infrastructure, the number and age of structures in proximity to the team’s base location, geographic coverage and threat assessment. Members of the team, which is supported by the New Jersey State Police, hail from all 21 counties. Frelinghuysen’s current legislation, H.R. 559, is co-sponsored by nine members of the New Jersey House delegation: Reps. Smith, LoBiondo, Lance, Pallone, Watson-Coleman, McArthur, Norcross, Pascrell and Sires.
12.29.2015	On August 25, 2016, the National Park Service will turn 100 years old! In addition to some of the local sites mentioned below, the National Park Foundation and the National Park Service initiated the Find Your Park movement to encourage people to enjoy and support America's national parks. For more information, visit here: http://findyourpark.com/. New Jersey's 11th Congressional District: Morristown National Historical Park New Jersey’s 11th district is fortunate to be the home of our nation’s oldest and most historic National Park, Morristown National Historical Park. Working with the Park Service and the Washington Association, Congressman Frelinghuysen has been leading the effort to secure dollars for the Park and to help renovate the museum. For more information on Morristown National Historical Park, please visit: http://www.nps.gov/morr/index.htm. Thomas Edison National Historical Park Located in West Orange, Thomas Edison National Historical Park includes Edison’s former home and laboratory. The museum collection at the Park, the largest single body of Edison-related material, is estimated to number over 300,000 items, while the archives contain approximately five million documents. For more information, visit their webpage: http://www.nps.gov/edis/index.htm. The Crossroads of the American Revolution Two hundred and thirty years ago New Jersey was at the crossroads of America's Revolutionary War. Today, there are nearly 300 sites in New Jersey with direct ties to the American Revolution. Among the landmarks are Washington’s Headquarters in Morristown, Jockey Hollow, the Old Trenton Barracks, the Dey Mansion in Wayne, the Princeton, Monmouth, and Red Bank battlefields, and the Great Falls of the Passaic. Congressman Frelinghuysen introduced H.R. 87, legislation to recognize the critical role our state played in the American Revolution. This legislation was included in the National Heritage Areas Act of 2005, which was signed into law on October 12, 2006. The Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area Act will raise the profile of New Jersey's historical importance. For more information regarding the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area, please visit www.revolutionarynj.org/.
12.18.2015	House Approves Funding for Highlands Conservation Act Washington, DC – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) praised the House of Representatives for including his request for funding for the Highlands Conservation Act as part of the Fiscal Year 2016Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Frelinghuysen, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, stated that $10 million for land acquisition, from willing sellers, in the Highlands region is included in the bill that was passed by the House today. To date, this is the highest number appropriated in any single year. “Preserving the New Jersey Highlands should always be a federal priority. A major source of drinking water and in the most densely populated metropolitan area in the country, the Highlands is a critical area in need of protection. This appropriation shows just how well the Highlands Conservation Act has been working. The Act requires that every federal dollar be matched 100 percent by non-federal dollars. Over $17 million that has been previously appropriated has leveraged state, local, and private funds at a better than two-to-one ratio protecting more than 5,000 acres in the 4-state Highlands Region,” said Frelinghuysen. The Highlands Conservation Act, which Frelinghuysen sponsored, was signed into law in 2004. This legislation directs critical funding to the Highlands region of New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut. It is one of the last open space treasures in the most densely populated area of the United States. Overall, the region provides and protects drinking water supplies for 3.5 million New Jerseyans. Stressing local responsibility and public/private partnerships, the Highlands Conservation Act requires state and local governments from New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut to identify “willing sellers” and prioritize land acquisition projects. -30-
12.18.2015	Frelinghuysen Hails House Passage of Omnibus Appropriations Act Support for Armed Force, Intel Community Comprises Largest Funding Category WASHINGTON, D.C. – Calling it “absolutely critical for the national security of the United States,” U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen today hailed passage of H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal 2016. “The American people are justifiably concerned about their security,” said Frelinghuysen, the chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “The defense section of this “Omnibus” Appropriations Act funds our troops, improves their readiness, allows our Armed Forces to conduct operations overseas and cares for military families and the wounded. It is a major component of the effort to keep America and Americans safe.” The “Omnibus” legislation contains the fiscal year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill for the range of military activities which protect American interests around the globe. The bill includes funds to combat the real-world threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations, to continue operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and to combat other current and emerging threats to national security from Iran, Russia, North Korea and China. In total, the Defense portion of the “Omnibus” contains $514.1 billion in base discretionary funding, $23.9 billion above the fiscal year 2015 level. This bill also includes $58.6 billion in Global War on Terror/Overseas Contingency Operations (GWOT) funding. This level reflects the increased defense discretionary funding provided by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, which was enacted on November 2. +++++++++++++++ Ongoing Military Operations – The bill contains $58.6 billion in GWOT/OCO funding for ongoing military operations abroad. This funding level will provide needed resources and training for our troops to conduct successful operations and fight our enemies around the globe. This includes funds to combat the threat presented by ISIL, train our Iraqi allies, continue combat operations in Afghanistan, reinforce European countries facing Russian aggression, support allies in the Middle East and Africa, and increase intelligence and surveillance capabilities. Military Personnel and Pay – The legislation includes $129.2 billion to provide pay for 1,308,915 active-duty troops and 811,000 reserves. This funding level is $1.2 billion above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. The bill fully funds the one percent pay raise for the military and provides $300 million above the request to address the housing allowance shortfall – ensuring secure housing for all eligible troops and their families. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains $32.3 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. This is $260 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level, and includes a $1.1 billion increase above the President’s request for important research on traumatic brain injury and psychological health, cancer, and suicide prevention outreach programs, among others. Operation and Maintenance – The legislation includes $167.5 billion for operation and maintenance – $5.8 billion above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. Within this amount, priority is placed on key areas such as essential readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, flying hours, tank miles, steaming days, equipment and depot maintenance, and base operations. Of the funds provided by the bill for operation and maintenance, $609 million above the President’s request is included to address shortfalls in military readiness, training, and depot maintenance – ensuring that our troops are well prepared and supported to meet all current and emerging threats. The bill also includes $263.3 million for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response programs, and an additional $25 million to continue the expansion of the Sexual Assault Victims’ Counsel program to all military services. Research and Development – The bill contains $69.8 billion for research, development, testing, and evaluation of new defense technologies, such as the Ohio Class Submarine replacement and the Long-Range Strike bomber. These efforts will help to advance the safety and success of current military operations and prepare our nation to meet a broad range of security threats in the future. Equipment Procurement – The legislation provides a total of $111 billion for new equipment and upgrades. This funding is necessary to ensure our nation’s military readiness, and will provide the platforms, weapons, and other equipment our forces need to train, maintain our force, and to conduct successful operations. Some of these equipment purchases will include: 68 F-35 Joint-Strike Fighters 102 Blackhawk Helicopters 64 Remanufactured Apache Helicopters Three Littoral Combat Ships Two Attack Submarines Two DDG-51 Guided Missile Destroyers Seven EA-18G Growlers and five F-18E/F Super Hornets 12 KC-46 Tankers Guantanamo Bay – The legislation prohibits funding for transfers of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. or its territories, prohibits funding to modify or acquire any facility in the U.S. to house detainees, and places conditions on the release of detainees to other countries. These provisions are similar to the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act.
12.18.2015	Frelinghuysen praises House Approval of 9/11 First Responders Health Bill New Jersey Responders Benefit WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised inclusion of the Zadroga Act into the must-pass Consolidated Appropriations Act approved by the House today. The Zadroga Act provides a long-term extension of the health care program for 9/11 first responders, including many from New Jersey, and others suffering from long-term health problems due to their work in Lower Manhattan in 2001 and 2002. “Along with NYFD and other New York personnel, dozens of New Jersey’s first responders worked in the recovery zone at Ground Zero that horrible day and thereafter, including the New Jersey Task Force One search and rescue team,” said Frelinghuysen. “The reauthorization of this long-term health program is very good news for our 9/11 heroes and their families. They deserve the very best medical care if they get sick.” In 2010 Congress created, with Frelinghuysen’s support, the World Trade Center Health Program (WTCHP) and the Victim Compensation Fund (VCF), two critical programs that provide medical monitoring, treatment, and compensation to first responders and survivors that have been found to have a higher incidence of certain illnesses and cancers due to exposure to toxins at Ground Zero. Today, the House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the WTCHP for the next 75 years and the VCF through 2020, “ensuring that New Jersey's bravest, who answered the call on that horrible day, continue to receive lifesaving medical treatment,” said Frelinghuysen, the Vice-Chairman of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Committee. James Zadroga was a New York City Police Department (NYPD) officer who died of a respiratory disease that has been attributed to his participation in rescue and recovery operations in the rubble of the World Trade Center. He was the first NYPD officer whose death was attributed to exposure to his contact with toxic chemicals at Ground Zero. ###
12.17.2015	
11.19.2015	WASHNGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today applauded House passage of legislation which suspends the flow of Syrian refugees into the U.S. until the refugees can be properly and thoroughly vetted. “Our federal government has no greater responsibility than keeping Americans safe,” said Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. “Knowing that our nation has a proud tradition of opening its arms to those in need, terrorists will certainly attempt to take advantage of our compassion. We cannot allow ISIS infiltration through our refugee assistance program.” Frelinghuysen co-sponsored and voted for the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act (H.R. 4038). The measure prevents admission to the United States of any potential Syrian or Iraqi refugee until the nation’s top security officials — the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence— unanimously certify that the individual does not represent a security threat. “Tens of thousands of people are now streaming out of Syria into Europe,” he said. “Reliable intelligence is unavailable on many of these refugees. After five years of brutal civil war, Syria is an ungoverned area. So how do you vet individuals from a war-torn country that has few criminal and terrorist databases to check? Records do not exist there.” “House approval of the SAFE Act is another step toward enhancing American security. There will be more. Today, it is simply prudent that this program be suspended for people leaving the Syrian war zone until we can be sure that the Obama Administration has installed a robust screening process and we receive strong assurances of safety from our law enforcement and intelligence officials and our allies.” ####
10.29.2015	“I welcome the election of Paul Ryan as Speaker of the House. While he is a man of new ideas, Paul has deep respect for the institution of the House and shares my commitment to returning to ‘regular order’ and allowing the House Committee system, especially the Appropriations Committee process, to operate as it should. I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan for greater fiscal discipline, balanced budgets and limiting the long reach of the federal government.” ###
10.29.2015	Star Ledger Op-Ed: Obama's veto of defense act leaves U.S. military at risk by: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee
10.22.2015	Statement of Rep. Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee: “I am deeply disappointed that the President has chosen to veto this important national security legislation. At a time when our troops, and those of our allies, are fighting terrorists around the globe and Russia and China are taking advantage of America’s lack of leadership in the world, this veto is a huge mistake.” ###
10.22.2015	Rep. Frelinghuysen Announces 2nd Annual Congressional STEM App Challenge *Open to all High School Students in the 11th Congressional District* WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announced today the kick-off of the second annual “Congressional App Challenge,” which officially opens November 9. This competition is open to all high school students in the 11th Congressional district. “I am again eager to be able to provide high school students with this tremendous opportunity to expand their expertise in the STEM fields by creating and exhibiting a software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice,” Frelinghuysen said. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Congressional App Challenge will last from November 9, 2015 through January 15, 2016, and is open to all U.S. high school students in participating districts. Challenge participants are invited, either as individuals or as teams, to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. A panel of local computer science professionals will judge the apps, and the winners in each district will have the honor of being recognized by their Congressional representative. “Nothing is more important to our Nation’s continued economic strength than developing the talents and expertise of students interested in STEM fields,” Frelinghuysen continued. “I look forward to viewing the submissions of students from New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District and urge all students to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity.” More information, including a full list of rules, can be found here: http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/.
10.05.2015	Bloomfield, New Jersey- U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today is applauding Bloomfield College’s receipt of funding from the U.S. Department of Education’s Predominantly Black Institutions (PBI) Program to increase its capacity to promote the postsecondary success of African-American and other high-need science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and Science Education students. The college will use grant funding to increase STEM and Science Education and STEM career development for African-American and other high-need students. Funds will also benefit 8th grade and high school students participating in the college’s STEM Summer Experience and Early College STEM Program. “The key to America’s future competitiveness is making sure that our young people receive the best education possible, particularly in mathematics, science, and engineering,” said Frelinghuysen, New Jersey’s only member of the House Appropriations Committee. “This grant is further evidence that Bloomfield College is a full partner in this effort. I applaud President Richard Levao and the entire Bloomfield community for their commitment to STEM education.” The grant amount will be $600,000 from October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016. Depending on Congressional appropriations, the grant could total $3 million over five years through September 30, 2020. The PBI Program makes grant awards to eligible institutions to plan, develop, and implement programs to enhance the institution’s capacity to serve more low- and middle-income African American students and to expand higher education opportunities for eligible students by encouraging college preparation and student persistence in secondary school and postsecondary education. Bloomfield College’s Division of Natural Science and Mathematics offers tracks leading to Bachelor of Science degrees in allied health technologies, biology, chemistry, clinical laboratory sciences and mathematics, as well as concentrations in pre-chiropractic, pre-medical and pre-podiatry studies.
10.01.2015	
09.25.2015	"I thank John Boehner for serving as Speaker of the entire House. We should all be grateful for his unqualified support of our men and women in uniform, and their families, as they do the work of freedom around the world. The Speaker has consistently allowed us to meet our primary Constitutional responsibility to provide for a strong national defense." ###
09.24.2015	NJ Herald: Frelinghuysen visits Byram Superfund site
09.24.2015	“I was honored to be in the House Chamber this morning for Pope Francis’ address. It was an optimistic, up-lifting pastoral speech in which he recognized the greatness of the “land of the free and the home of the brave” and reminded us of the great influence the United States wields around the world. I will allow others to draw their own personal lessons from his words, but we are deeply thankful for his visit.” ###
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - New Jersey Task Force One (NJ-TF1), the state’s Urban Search and Rescue Team, has taken a step toward federal recognition. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Urban Search and Rescue Strategic Group has unanimously recommended that New Jersey Task Force 1 (NJ-TF1) join the nation’s 28 team National Urban Search & Rescue System. “As a result of dangerous world we live in, these emergency management teams, professionals and volunteers alike, are our best and most important lines of defense,” said Frelinghuysen. “In their hands is one of our nation’s greatest missions: protecting our homeland. This FEMA designation will enhance New Jersey’s security, provide the Task Force with more funding for training and equipment and ensure they remain prepared in the event of an emergency.” FEMA’s US&R Strategic Group considered a number of factors, including experience, population density, critical infrastructure, the number and age of structures in proximity to the team’s base location, geographic coverage and threat assessment. “As disaster struck early September 11, 2001, the members of the New Jersey Task Force One Urban Search and Rescue Team were on their way to the World Trade Center - among the first search and rescue teams on the ground that fateful morning,” Frelinghuysen said. “Not only have the members of this team proven they are worthy of such designation – there is no question about it, New Jersey needs its own federally supported team. Frankly, we should have to wait no longer. FEMA should have made this designation years ago!” Frelinghuysen has introduced legislation since the 107th Congress in 2002 seeking expansion of the national urban search and rescue system and a federal designation for NJ-TF1. He wrote earlier this year to the Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, a resident of Montclair, outlining the case for NJ-TF1. “Recognizing our state as being one of the most densely populated areas of the country, over the past year FEMA has developed and carried out exercises to increase community emergency preparedness for various disasters, including oil train spills, pandemic outbreaks and extreme weather events.” Members of the team, which is supported by the New Jersey State Police, hail from all 21 counties. Frelinghuysen’s current legislation, H.R. 559, is co-sponsored by nine members of the New Jersey House delegation: Reps. Smith, LoBiondo, Lance, Pallone, Watson-Coleman, McArthur, Norcross, Pascrell and Sires.
09.16.2015	Inspection includes visits to five Superfund sites in Morris, Essex & Sussex counties. Morristown, NJ - Joined by U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region II and senior New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) officials, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today continued his annual inspection of Superfund sites in the 11th Congressional District that are currently on the EPA's National Priorities List (NPL). "It is important for me to visit Superfund sites in person to evaluate annual progress being made," said Frelinghuysen. “In addition, federal and state environmental agencies need to understand that someone is watching over their shoulders in order to keep them moving in the right direction.” "New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state in the nation but considerable headway has been made,” he added. “Since 1980 when the Superfund program began, 34 sites in New Jersey have been removed from the National Priority List." Stops on the Congressman’s 2015 Superfund tour include: the Mansfield Trail Dump in Byram Township, Sussex County, Radiation Technology Inc., Rockaway Township, Morris County, Rockaway Borough Well Field, Rockaway Borough, Morris County and Unimatic Manufacturing Corp and Caldwell Trucking in Township of Fairfield, Essex County. Currently, 114 Superfund sites are located in New Jersey, including 10 in the 11th Congressional District. Frelinghuysen is being joined on the tour by Judith Enck, Regional Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency Region 2, state NJDEP representatives and legislators and local elected officials.
09.11.2015	“Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Iran nuclear agreement.” While there are many reasons to stand against this deal, it comes down to a fundamental reality: the Iranian nuclear agreement fails to achieve its critical objective: blocking all of Iran’s pathways to a nuclear weapon. In fact, this deal provides Iran with international endorsement of an industrial-scale nuclear weapons program.” My Colleagues, we must not forget where we started: with the President declaring that Iran must never be allowed to achieve a nuclear weapons capability.” But to get from that point to where we are today, our negotiators had to make numerous and serious concessions on inspections and verification, Iran’s ballistic missile program and access to conventional weapons.” Worse than that, Iran will be economically strengthened by early relief from sanctions – providing the Ayatollah with fresh resources with which to fund the Quds Forces and its global terrorism network. Supporters of this agreement have proclaimed loudly that the only alternative to this agreement is war. I reject that notion and predict that this deal will lead to more Iranian aggression in the Middle East.” For our part, the agreement talks about normalization of economic relations with Iran and states that the parties shall implement the agreement ‘in good faith . . . based on mutual respect.’” But how can there be respect for a regime that actively instigates regional instability, publicly and constantly advocates for the destruction of the State of Israel, and uses the phrase "Death to America" as a mission statement?” Mr. Speaker, the first responsibility of each Member of this House is to provide for our national defense – and that includes confronting the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. If we fail to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon this year, next year or in the next decade, we will have allowed the weakening of that defense. And we will have failed our children and the world’s children.” I sincerely regret that this vote has been characterized as a partisan measure. It is not. It is a vote of conscience far above and beyond politics. And that’s why I will vote “No” on the motion to approve this disastrous agreement. “
09.10.2015	The Citizen: Army leaders plan new role for Picatinny in Rockaway Township Wednesday, September 2, 2015
08.26.2015	N.J. Jewish News Op-Ed: The Administration gambles with Iran Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee
08.03.2015	Frelinghuysens: From Landed Gentry to Protectors of Land by: Amanda Peterka, Enviornment and Energy Publishing, July 28, 2015
07.14.2015	Statement of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense July 14, 2015 “The Iranian agreement appears to be a major victory for Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism and a regime with American blood on its hands. However, I fear as we examine the details, we will uncover multiple concessions that serve purely Iranian political, economic and military goals, not ours. I will fight any agreement that further jeopardizes U.S. national security and Middle East stability. Thank goodness the House and Senate have the legal right to review the plan for the next 60 days.” ###
06.30.2015	N.J. Herald Op-Ed- Waves of Refugees: Why we need a 'complete' plan for the Middle East by: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense
06.25.2015	“Today’s Supreme Court decision is an unfortunate endorsement of a bad law that has driven up healthcare costs for millions of American families – higher premiums, skyrocketing deductibles, elevated co-pays, Obamacare has brought us larger insurance companies and hospital systems and done damage to the critical doctor-patient relationship. “This split decision only highlights the need to repeal and replace this broken system with one that protects seniors, middle-income families and small business owners. “ ###
06.16.2015	Washington, DC– Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today praised the House Appropriation Committee for including his request for funding for the Highlands Conservation Act as part of the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. Frelinghuysen, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, stated that $3 million for land acquisition, from willing sellers, in the Highlands region is included in the bill that was passed by the Appropriations Committee today. The legislation has been referred to the full House for further action. “I am pleased that Chairman Ken Calvert (CA) recognized the ongoing need for this critically important funding. Preserving the New Jersey Highlands is, and should remain, a federal priority. A major source of drinking water and in the most densely populated metropolitan area in the country, the Highlands is a critical area in need of protection. By negotiating land acquisition with willing sellers, this appropriation shows just how efficiently the federal Highlands Conservation Act has been working. The Act requires that every federal dollar be matched 100 percent by non-federal dollars. Over $17 million that has been previously appropriated under the Act has leveraged state, local, and private funds at a better than two-to-one ratio,” Frelinghuysen said. The Highlands cover more than three million acres across New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut. To date, more than 5,000 acres in the 4-state Highlands Region have been protected under the Act. ###
06.12.2015	Washington Post Op-Ed: Give Obama trade promotion authority by: Condoleezza Rice 6/5/2015
06.12.2015	Mr. Chairman, as I rise to present to the House the Appropriations Committee’s recommendation for the fiscal year 2016 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, there are nearly 200,000 servicemen and women serving abroad, doing the work of freedom on every continent – (in the Middle East, Europe, Africa and Asia). And, many more are here at home serving in every one of our states – Active, Guard and Reserves – all volunteers! We are grateful to them and their families! They are certainly not all experts in some of the language and terms that will be part of our vocabulary during this debate over the next 36 hours -phrases like “sequester” and “continuing resolution,” “BCA,” “Overseas Contingency Account,” and “Global War on Terrorism” GWOT account.” But they have every expectation that they will have our united support for this bill whether they serve aboard a ship, fly through airspace or provide “over-watch” on land to support a mission. This legislation was developed after 12 hearings, many briefings, travel to the Middle East and Europe and countless staff hours with those who serve us, military and civilians, very much in mind. This is a product of a very bipartisan and cooperative effort, for which I thank my good friend, the Ranking Member Pete Visclosky. We are both fortunate to have committee members who are engaged and committed so much to this product. And we are grateful for the support of Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey. In total, the bill provides just over $578 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $24.4 billion above the FY 2015 enacted level. This top line includes $88.4 billion in Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding for war efforts and is at the level assumed in the House-Senate budget conference agreement. I would point out our House total is very close to the number President Obama submitted in his FY ’16 budget request for national defense. Of course, the base funding recommendation is just over $490 billion, which reflect the budget caps enacted in 2011 as part of the Budget Control Act. To reach our reduced allocation, we reviewed in detail the President’s submission and found areas and programs where reductions were possible without harming military operations, warfighter readiness, or critical modernization efforts. And please be assured we made “every dollar count.” To do so, we’ve taken reductions from programs that have been: restructured or terminated; subject to contract or schedule delays; contain unjustified cost increases or funding requested “ahead of need;” historical under-execution; rescissions of unneeded funds; Of course, our bill keeps faith with our troops and their families by including a 2.3 percent pay raise, a full percentage point above the President’s request. It also provides generous funding to (their) benefits and critical defense health programs. In another key area, this package contains robust funding to counter serious worldwide cyber threats – now an everyday occurrence. But I think we would all agree that the world is a much more dangerous, unstable and unpredictable place than it was in 2011 when the Budget Control Act was signed into law by President Obama. The budget caps developed back then could never have envisioned the emerging and evolving threats that we’re seeing today in the Middle East, North Africa, Asia, eastern Europe and elsewhere. So, to respond to current and future threats, and meet our Constitutional responsibilities to provide for the common defense, we developed a bill that adheres to current law AND provides additional resources to avoid catastrophic cuts to military programs and people. Those additional resources are included in Title 9 – the Global War on Terrorism account. And that account has been carefully vetted to assure its war-related uses. Our Subcommittee scrubbed the President’s base budget request for this year and past budget requests and identified those systems and programs that are absolutely connected to our ongoing fight against threats presented by ISIL. Al Qaeda, al Nusra, the Korasan Group, Boko Haram and other radical terrorist organizations, including the Iranian Quds Force. We also projected what resources the military and intelligence community will need to meet the ongoing challenge of nation-state aggressors like Russia, China, Iran, North Korea and others. Not surprisingly, we have heard objections about the use of Title 9 to boost our top line national security spending in this bill. Frankly, I do not believe there is anyone on either side of the Capitol who believes this should be our first “Go-To” option. Rather, it’s a process we undertake as a last resort to make sure our troops can answer the call amid a worsening threat environment. Again, we have been very careful about what went into this Global War on Terrorism account. We resisted the temptation to simply transfer large portions of the base bill’s Operations and Maintenance accounts into GWOT. We painstakingly worked to provide the needed resources for the preparation of our forces in the field, wherever a crisis may exist or develop in the future, like the current unfolding disaster which is Iraq! In a recent Statement of Administration Policy, the White House asserted that GWOT funding – the old OCO account – is a “funding mechanism intended to pay for wars…” I could not agree more and that’s why we reinforced GWOT funding to provide President Obama with funding he needs to lead us as our Commander-in-Chief. Within the GWOT account, I want to highlight two areas of critical importance: ISR and readiness. We believe that a strong Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) capability is a critical component of the Global War on Terrorism. And yet, a succession of Combatant Commanders have testified that only a fraction of their ISR requirements are being met, in essence, leaving them blind to the enemy’s activities, movements and intentions. Accordingly, the GWOT account contains an additional $500 million above the President’s 2016 request to improve our ISR capabilities - procurement of additional ISR aircraft and ground stations, the training of ISR pilots and other personnel and the processing of ISR-derived data. Likewise, we share the concern of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines about the erosion in overall READINESS in the force. So to begin to re-invest in readiness, Title 9 includes an additional $2.5 billion above the President’s request for this purpose – to be distributed to all the services and to the Guard and Reserves. I would add that this sum must be detailed and justified to Congress 30 days before it is spent. Again, this bill is structured to give the President the tools he needs to act. For example, when he does finally develop a long-awaited, “complete” and comprehensive strategy to combat ISIL and other terror groups, we’ve provided in this bill the resources he will need to execute his plans. I think we’d all agree that America must lead and this bill enables that leadership. Mr. Chairman, I will allow myself a closing thought: The Washington Post recently editorialized on the Defense Authorization bill that “there isn’t much bipartisan governance left in Washington, but if anything fits that description, it’s probably the annual defense” bill. Like the work of our predecessors, this measure has been developed with the full cooperation of Republicans and Democrats on our Committee with our excellent staff led by our Clerk Rob Blair and his minority counterpart, Becky Leggieri. Past Defense Subcommittee Chairmen Young, Dicks, Murtha and Lewis, and others, consistently reminded us that we are here for the defense of the nation and partisan politics has no place in a defense appropriations bill. As Members of Congress, our first duty is to “provide for the common defence.” It is on our shoulders to make sure our troops can dominate any and every battlefield upon which they march. Make no mistake: we want to work with the President and this recommendation provides him with the tools he needs to fulfill his responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief! Mr. Chairman, this bill deserves bipartisan support and after many hours of productive debate, I look forward to a bipartisan vote outcome. Our troops deserve it. Our national security requires it. Our adversaries need to see it. I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.03.2015	NJ Herald: Astronaut talks of space program at Sparta school by: Greg Watry May 14, 2015
05.13.2015	The Star Ledger Opinion: On Cuba, Obama again comes up short at negotiating table By: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) 5/8/2015
04.14.2015	Daily Record Opinion: Iran has good reason to celebrate By: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Published by the Daily Record on April 11, 2015
04.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and a delegation of senior lawmakers have returned to the United States after a multi-nation fact-finding mission to several key Middle Eastern nations. The delegation visited Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Israel to discuss the dangers posed by violent extremism and Iran's rising influence in the region. “At every stop on this fact-finding trip, we heard of growing concern about Iran’s aggressive behavior and ISIL’s growing threats,” Frelinghuysen said. “We agreed that defeating ISIS and stopping the spread of the terrorism will require a clear comprehensive strategy. Of course, we welcome other nations ‘to the fight.’ But it is crystal clear that the United States must lead!” The delegation met this week with King Abdullah, in Amman, Jordan, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi in Baghdad, Iraq, Saudi Interior Minister Mohammad bin Naif and Saudi Defense Minister Mohammed bin Salman in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu in Tel Aviv, Israel, “It’s a region in turmoil that sees small victories and ever more difficult challenges each day,” Frelinghuysen said. “During this tumultuous week alone, the Saudis were battling Iranian-backed Shiite rebels in Yemen, the Iraqis were celebrating a questionable ‘victory’ in Tikrit, and the Jordanians were worrying about an ISIL attack on a refugee camp in Syria. The Middle East is truly on fire and the United States needs to demonstrate our clear support for our allies and partners.” In addition to Chairman Frelinghuysen, the delegation joining Speaker Boehner in the Middle East included senior lawmakers charged with oversight of the United States’ efforts to defeat the terrorist threat and support countries in the region that share our values and purpose. #####
04.02.2015	e-News Special Report As our official Congressional delegation left Israel this morning, President Obama was preparing to announce another "framework" nuclear agreement with Iran. While we have yet to see the critical details, I share many of the concerns raised by Speaker Boehner: “The president says negotiators have cleared the basic threshold needed to continue talks, but the parameters for a final deal represent an alarming departure from the White House’s initial goals. My longtime concerns about the parameters of this potential agreement remain, but my immediate concern is the administration signaling it will provide near-term sanctions relief. Congress must be allowed to fully review the details of any agreement before any sanctions are lifted. “After visiting with our partners on the ground in the Middle East this week, my concerns about Iran’s efforts to foment unrest, brutal violence and terror have only grown. It would be naïve to suggest the Iranian regime will not continue to use its nuclear program, and any economic relief, to further destabilize the region. “In the weeks ahead, Republicans and Democrats in Congress will continue to press this administration on the details of these parameters and the tough questions that remain unanswered. We will stand strong on behalf of the American people and everyone in the Middle East who values freedom, security, and peace.”
03.31.2015	Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) pauses outside the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad to greet U.S. soldiers. Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, is participating in an official Congressional delegation to key Middle East capitals led by Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH). Speaker Boehner, Chairman Frelinghuysen Visit Key Capitals in Middle East BAGHDAD, IRAQ– House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and a delegation of senior lawmakers visited Baghdad where they met Prime Minister Haider Al Abadi. Their talks focused on the ongoing military campaign against ISIS in Iraq and efforts to arm peshmerga forces in the Kurdish region of northern Iraq. Earlier in the trip, they visited with the King of Jordan, King Abdullah, at Beit al-Urdun Palace. The delegation also met with U.S. Ambassador Alice Wells, Nasser Judeh, Jordan’s Foreign Minister, as well as senior embassy officials. Discussions focused on two major trends in the region: the violence caused by Iran’s allies and proxies, and the spreading of the terrorist threat. There was also shared concern regarding how the negotiations over Iran's nuclear program fit in the larger context of the security challenges in the region. “At every stop on this fact-finding trip, I expect to continue to hear the same message from our allies and partners: the United States must continue to lead. We agree that defeating ISIS and stopping the spread of the terrorist threat will require a clear strategy and a comprehensive approach. The United States must support our partners in the region.” In addition to Chairman Frelinghuysen, the delegation joining Speaker Boehner in the Middle East is made up of senior lawmakers charged with oversight of the United States’ efforts to defeat the terrorist threat and support our partners in the region. #####
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) praised passage of H.R. 2 – legislation to permanently fix the broken Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. The bipartisan plan fixes the long-standing problem of how doctors get paid for treating the 53 million Americans who depend on Medicare. “This bipartisan legislation strengthens Medicare and provides stability for seniors and their doctors,” Frelinghuysen said. “The legislation moves beyond the SGR to a better system that ensures that our seniors have access to their doctors and the high-quality care they deserve.” H.R. 2 establishes the first real, structural entitlement reform in nearly two decades – offsetting all new spending without tax increases. These reforms have long been part of Republican budgets. For the first time, however, Democrats agreed to these reforms without demanding tax hikes – a breakthrough and a win for American seniors. “With these structural reforms, H.R. 2 reduces the deficit over the long term,” Frelinghuysen said. “Looking 20, 30, and 40 years down the road, these reforms will produce hundreds of billions in durable savings for taxpayers.” “Fixing SGR has been a goal of doctors, patients and their families for a long time,” he said. “After today’s vote, the Senate and the White House have a tremendous opportunity to finish the job, and in the process, strengthen Medicare.” -30-
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter to President Barack Obama, the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense have urged that the Administration increase assistance to the government of Ukraine immediately. Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) and Ranking Member Peter Visclosky (D-IN) wrote “First, you should designate Ukraine as a Major Non NATO Ally. Second, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 contains $175 million within the European Reassurance Initiative Fund specifically to provide aid to Ukraine and the Baltic States. We request that a substantial amount of funding be reprogrammed to that fund thereby increasing the amount of funding available for assistance.” Frelinghuysen and Visclosky, along with six other members of the Defense Subcommittee, Kay Granger (R-TX), Ken Calvert (R-CA), John Carter (R-TX), Steve Womack (R-AR), Steve Israel (D-NY), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), recently returned from a bipartisan fact-finding trip to Kiev, Ukraine where they met with President Petro Poroshenko, his prime minster and his defense minster to discuss Russian ongoing aggression against Ukraine. The delegation told the President that the situation in Ukraine is “alarming.” “As you are aware, President Putin is using Ukraine as a test bed for a new type of warfare by using state sponsored insurgents to carry out his campaign. The Russians are clearly managing the command and control of the insurgency and have invaded Ukraine using the façade of this insurgency for plausible deniability. Additionally, Russia is overwhelmingly winning the communication battle in Europe and Ukraine itself and is showing success in dividing Ukraine’s neighbors,” they wrote. “Whether or not these neighbors actually believe that Russia will stop with a successful occupation of Ukraine is another thing, but for now they are siding with Russia.” “We believe the situation in Ukraine is a matter of critical importance to the national security of the United States. The world is watching with intense interest how our Nation reacts to the war in Ukraine today. We are sure you are aware Mr. President, that Russia is not just acting in its near term best interest, but is looking many years into the future. It is important that we do the same.”
03.25.2015	New Jersey Jewish News: Act Protecting Women Gains Local Backers Published by New Jersey Jewish News, March 25, 2015
03.25.2015	Observer Tribune: Frelinghuysen leads delegation to Egypt, Cyprus, Ukraine Published by the Observer Tribune on March 20, 2015
02.25.2015	The Record: "Opinion: U.S. approach to national security should be challenged"
02.24.2015	The Bernardsville News: Frelinghuysen Talks Foreign Policy with Rotarians
02.19.2015	Published by the Observer Tribune 2/13/15 By: Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) When you think of human trafficking, you don’t think of New Jersey. Rather, you think of the U.S. southern border or women being imprisoned and carried in shipping containers into ports on the East Coast. However, New Jersey has “unseen prisons” throughout the state. Though few of our neighbors are aware, hundreds of women and children are trafficked despite the best efforts of law enforcement, advocacy groups and local, state and federal agencies. Human trafficking is a growing criminal industry, second only to drug dealing. Human trafficking involves the use of force, fraud or coercion for the purpose of sexual exploitation, physical violence or forced labor. According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. How is sex trafficking different from prostitution? The trafficked person is not free to leave. Last year’s Super Bowl at the Meadowlands was a wake-up call for many as police and other experts warned that criminals would use the large crowds associated with that event to sell adults and children into prostitution. Their hope was that they would find willing clients among the people attending parties or the game itself. Across the United States, more than 17,000 people are trafficked into the United States every year, according to the Congressional Research Service. Some are forced into low-wage or unpaid work. Others are exploited for sex or sold into prostitution rings. According to a University of Pennsylvania study, quoted by the FBI, another 300,000 American children are at risk of becoming victims of sex trafficking every year. Tragically, most of the victims of this crime are vulnerable youth who have run away from home, are part of a child welfare system, and/or have been previous victims of abuse and assault. Trafficking Hub Unfortunately, New Jersey has been described as a “hub” for human trafficking. Why? Our state is easily accessible via our interstate highways. Major tourist destinations like Atlantic City and New York City makes us more vulnerable and susceptible. And since traffickers often prey on victims of their own background, New Jersey’s great ethnic diversity makes it harder for law enforcement to observe and prosecute these activities. This is a shocking nationwide crisis. “Modern-day slavery exists right here in the United States,” said my colleague Congresswoman Ann Wagner, R- Missouri. “Through the scourge of human trafficking, children in our own neighborhoods and communities are sold into forced prostitution every single day. Sexual predators can browse advertisements and have child prostitutes sent to their hotel rooms as easily as if they were ordering a pizza.” This week, the House passed a dozen bipartisan bills designed to protect children and combat this growing problem – providing support and services to the victims of this crime and boosting resources for law enforcement. I am a cosponsor of many of these bills which are intended to build on the bipartisan laws passed last year to reduce child sex trafficking and increase adoptions of foster care youth. But at its root, combating this scourge takes the increased awareness of every citizen. Speaking up is the most effective way to protect and support the victims and their families. Is someone you know being trafficked? Is human trafficking happening in your community? Knowing the red flags and indicators of human trafficking is a key step in identifying more victims and helping them find the assistance they need. The New Jersey Human Trafficking Task Force operates a hotline to report human trafficking -1-855-END-NJ-HT (1-855-363-6548). The hotline is staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by detectives in the Human Trafficking Unit within the Division of Criminal Justice. In addition, there are over a hundred member organizations that comprise the New Jersey Coalition Against Human Trafficking. For a comprehensive list of these groups, visit their website. Awareness is a key to closing down New Jersey’s “unseen prisons!”
02.11.2015	Wanted: An Independent Voice on Defense By Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Ashton Carter told the Senate Armed Services Committee this week that he will be an independent voice as the new Secretary of Defense. He indicated he will not be a rubber stamp for the President and he won’t be pushed around. In fact, he made several statements about public policy designed to prove his point. Then, as if on cue, the White House openly disagreed with its own nominee on many of his statements. Sound familiar? Just as predecessors Gates, Panetta and Hagel discovered, Secretary Carter will quickly find out that America’s military policy emanates not from the Pentagon, but from the National Security Council at the White House. And where has the White House taken us? Under this President’s watch: - We’ve lost most of Iraq to Iran and the rest to ISIS; - Iran is very close to developing a nuclear weapon; - We’re in the process of relinquishing all the gains we’ve fought for in Afghanistan to the Taliban or tribal warlords; - We have deserted the Syrian people; - The government we supported in Yemen has collapsed and our Embassy there has been evacuated; - Released detainees from Guantanamo Bay have “returned to the fight;” - Libya is now officially a “basket-case;” - We have basically abandoned Ukraine to Russia; - At the same time, our defense budget is sliding rapidly to the point where we will soon have an Army smaller than it was before World War 2, fewer Navy ships than ever before and an Air Force that is smaller than ever and flies older aircraft than at any point in its existence. Clearly, Secretary Carter will have his work cut out for him. As a well-respected professional, we need his “independent voice” to begin to turn these incredibly dangerous trends around. A good place to start is in Eastern Europe where Ukrainian President Poroshenko has repeatedly asked the Obama Administration to go beyond bandages, tents and night vision goggles and provide lethal aid in their escalating battle with Russia. It has been said that Vladimir Putin’s goal is “to keep Ukraine out of NATO and keep NATO out of Ukraine.” In this context, I have written to President Obama three times in the last year urging him to grant “Major Non-NATO Ally” status to Ukraine. This declaration would allow the U.S. to deliver excess defense articles to the Ukrainian military and enter into bilateral training agreements. MREs and blankets will not turn the tide against Russia’s military might. As the Russian military trains and equips insurgents, Ukraine needs lethal assistance to protect its people and preserve its independence. But so far, calls for arms and munitions to Ukraine have gone unheeded. Our nation has long been a reliable force for stability and freedom in the world. We have done so by supporting our friends, deterring our enemies and acting with certainty and predictability. Former Prime Minister of Britain, Tony Blair, addressed the House Republican Conference last month. He said, “Don’t worry about whether people around the world love you. What the world needs is for America to be strong.” I hope the new Defense Secretary uses his independence to reinforce that notion each and every day for the next two years!
01.22.2015	“As the new Congress gets underway, I am focused on jobs and the economy and keeping our country safe from violent terrorists. Tonight, the President outlined his plans for the year. Unfortunately, he missed a chance to tell the American people how he will work cooperatively with Republicans to advance solutions that increase opportunities for all – with more jobs, better wages, and lower health care and energy costs. And, I was deeply disappointed that the nation did not hear more about the concrete steps the President will propose to address the three greatest threats to America today: radical Islamic terrorism, cyber-sabotage and runaway debt.”
01.05.2015	Observer Tribune: $3 million in federal funds to help protect Highlands Published December 27, 2014 by the Observer Tribune.
12.17.2014	Alan Gross is Home, Killer of NJ Trooper Remains in Cuban Safe Haven “We all welcome the release of Alan Gross and his return to his family in the United States,” said Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). “However, we cannot forget that New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster will never return to his family and Cuba is harboring his killer.” Mr. Gross’ release came a week after White House press secretary Josh Earnest said in a statement that Gross’s continued detainment was an “impediment to more constructive relations between the United States and Cuba.” Media reports indicate that the Obama administration plans to start talks with Cuba on normalizing full diplomatic relations and opening an embassy in Havana. “To me, the New Jersey law enforcement community and many other Americans, one of the biggest impediments to improved relations between the United States and Cuba is the continued safe haven provided to the fugitive, Joanne Chesimard,” Frelinghuysen said. “I would demand that the White House and the State Department work much harder to bring this murderer ‘home’ to New Jersey where she can face justice and serve out her sentence.” Chesimard, was convicted of the 1973 execution-style murder of New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster along the New Jersey Turnpike and sentenced to life in prison. She escaped from prison in 1979 and eventually fled to Cuba where she has been provided refuge. #######
12.17.2014	Washington, DC - Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ) returned to the United States from an official Congressional delegation trip to the Persian Gulf region. Frelinghuysen, the Chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, traveled with incoming House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX) and incoming Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (CA). The delegation, led by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA), visited Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Jordan. The delegation met with national leaders, including Saudi Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, along with many other senior defense officials, as well as U.S. military and State Department officers in these strategically important nations, to assess the vitality of U.S. partnerships in the region. The purpose of the trip was to examine 1) the counter-ISIL strategy and the evolving military campaign in Iraq, Syria and the surrounding region and 2) Iran and its regional influence and actions. “In recent years, the United States has established valuable working partnerships with most nations in the greater Persian Gulf region,” said Frelinghuysen. “It is in the national security interest of the United States to ensure that these relationships remain active and vibrant. Our discussions with leaders and defense officials across the region were designed to be very helpful in this regard.” Frelinghuysen also met with men and women of our Armed Forces, all volunteers, who are serving in the area. He expressed his appreciation for their commitment to defending America’s interests in the region, especially over the holidays when they are away from their families. ###
12.12.2014	“The Defense Title of H.R. 83, the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 meets the two goals I set at the first hearing our Defense Appropriations Subcommittee held earlier this year. “First, it ensures that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to defend our nation and support their families. “Second, it ensures that the Department of Defense has the resources it needs to carry out their mission in the most efficient and effective manner. “Our legislation is a clear example of our commitment to U.S. military dominance across the air, land and sea; our commitment to our allies and partners; and our commitment to our service-members, all of whom are volunteers, and their families.” Additional Details of the Defense Title: FY 2015 Omnibus -Department of Defense Appropriations The Defense Title of H.R 5230 will strengthen national security and military readiness, provide troops with the resources they need, care for military families. The Omnibus legislation contains the fiscal year 2015Defense Appropriations bill, which provides funding for our nation’s security, military readiness, support for our troops at home and abroad, and care for military families. It also includes emergency funds to combat the emerging real world threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). In total, the Defense portion of the Omnibus contains $490.2billionin base discretionary funding, $3.3 billion above the fiscal year 2014 level. This bill also includes $64 billion in emergency war Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. Ongoing Military Operations – The bill contains $64 billion in OCO funding for ongoing military operations abroad. This is a reduction of $21.2 billion compared to the fiscal year2014 enacted level – largely reflecting the drawdown of military personnel and operations in Afghanistan. This funding level will provide needed resources and training for our troops in the field. This also includes funds to combat the threat presented by ISIL –including $3.4 billion to continue the air campaign and replenish weapons and $1.6 billion to train and equip our Iraqi allies –and additional resources to help reinforce European countries facing Russian aggression. Military Personnel and Pay –The legislation includes $128 billion to provide pay for 1,310,680 active duty troops and 820,800 reserves. This funding level is $800 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level, which reflects the reduction in U.S. military force. The bill fully funds the one percent pay raise for the military and provides $215 million above the request to fully fund The cost-of-living allowance for military retirees. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains $32.1billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. This is $600 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level, due to increased efficiency of care within Military Treatment Facilities. Several important health programs receive increases above the President’s request, including increases of $281million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $39 million for suicide prevention outreach programs. Operation and Maintenance –The legislation includes $161.7 billion for operation and maintenance – $1.8 billion above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this amount, priority is placed on key areas such as essential readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations. An additional $900 million above the request for Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization is included, as well as $1.2 billion to address shortfalls in military readiness, depot maintenance, and base operating support. The bill also includes $257 million for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response programs, and an additional $25 million to continue the expansion of the Sexual Assault Victims Counsel program to all the military services. Research and Development – The bill contains $63.7 billion for research, development, testing and evaluation of new defense technologies. These efforts will help to advance the safety and success of current and future military operations and prepare our nation to meet a broad range of potential security threats. Equipment Procurement – The legislation provides a total of $94 billion for new equipment and upgrades. This funding is necessary to ensure our nation’s military readiness, and will provide the platforms, weapons, and other equipment our forces need to train, maintain our force, and to conduct successful operations. Guantanamo Bay –The legislation prohibits funding for transfers of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. or its territories, prohibits funding to modify any facility in the U.S. to house detainees, and places conditions on the release of detainees to other countries. These provisions are similar to language contained in the fiscal year 2014 Defense Appropriations legislation. Savings and Reductions to President’s Request –The bill reflects common-sense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions. Some of these reductions include: $660 million in excess civilian personnel costs; $386 million for revised economic assumptions; $270 million for overestimation of information technology costs; and $2.5billion in savings from rescissions of unused, prior-year funding. ###
11.21.2014	“The message of the 2014 election was that the American people want Congress and the President to work together to develop solutions for the problems facing our constituents. Yet, just two weeks past that election, the President announced he’s taking unilateral action on immigration by declaring that millions of unlawful immigrants can stay in the U.S. without facing the consequences of violating current U.S. immigration laws. In effect, he’s jumping them to the front of the line, ahead of millions of potential immigrants who have waited their turn and followed our rules. “It is absolutely true that the Congress has not agreed on how to legislate reform of the immigration system. But that does not mean, on a whim, the President can ignore the Constitution and alter existing U.S. law before Congress passes new statutes. “Our immigration system is broken and it needs to be fixed. That effort must start with working together to secure the borders first!”
09.23.2014	Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding airstrikes in Syria: “Last night saw a critically important first step in the effort to destroy ISIS and its threat to America and the civilized world. We hope for the success of the mission and the safety of our military personnel as this long fight continues in the weeks and months ahead.” ###
09.23.2014	Morristown, New Jersey– Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) conducted his annual tour of Superfund sites in the 11th Congressional District of New Jersey yesterday. Frelinghuysen visited the sites to check on the progress being made in restoring these heavily polluted locations. Frelinghuysen was accompanied by officials of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as well as representatives from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) and numerous local elected officials. The first site Frelinghuysen visited yesterday was the Mansfield Trail Dump in Byram Township. Joined by Byram Township councilmembers David Gray, Nisha Kash, Scott Olson, and Marie Raffay, Frelinghuysen received an update on the progress being made to clean up the site. “I am pleased to see the progress being made at this site, although more work remains to be done,” Frelinghuysen said. “I applaud the EPA, the DEP, and Byram’s local officials for their commitment to seeing this site cleaned up – a commitment I wholeheartedly share.” Frelinghuysen visited five other Superfund sites in his District later in the day.
09.23.2014	Morristown, New Jersey– Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) conducted his annual tour of Superfund sites in the 11th Congressional District of New Jersey yesterday. Frelinghuysen visited the sites to check on the progress being made in restoring these heavily polluted locations. Frelinghuysen was accompanied by officials of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as well as representatives from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) and numerous local elected officials. Frelinghuysen visited two sites in Fairfield: Caldwell Trucking Co. and Unimatic Manufacturing Corporation. Joined by Mayor Jim Gasparini, Frelinghuysen received an update on the status of these two sites. “I am pleased to see that the groundwater at the Caldwell Trucking site continues to be cleaned and that the EPA is preparing to evaluate the situation at the Unimatic site,” Frelinghuysen said. “I look forward to continuing to work with the EPA, the DEP, and local officials in Fairfield to protect the health of the community and the environment.” Frelinghuysen visited four other Superfund sites in his District during the day.
09.23.2014	Morristown, New Jersey– Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) conducted his annual tour of Superfund sites in the 11th Congressional District of New Jersey yesterday. Frelinghuysen visited the sites to check on the progress being made in restoring these heavily polluted locations. Frelinghuysen was accompanied by officials of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), including Judith Enck, administrator for EPA Region 2, as well as representatives from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) and numerous local elected officials. The highlight of the tour was the announcement made by Frelinghuysen and Enck at the Radiation Technology site in Rockaway Township, Morris County, where they announced that EPA has approved a cleanup plan for this site, which occupies 263 acres. “I am very pleased to announce that EPA has approved a cleanup plan for this Superfund site,” Frelinghuysen said. “I have worked closely with EPA to move all of our Superfund cleanups forward. I am pleased that we are that much closer to the day when the Radiation Technology site land can be returned to beneficial use.” Enck observed during the stop at Radiation Technology that Congressman Frelinghuysen is perhaps the only Member of Congress who visits Superfund sites in his or her District every year to ensure that progress is being made. The Radiation Technology site was formerly used for testing and developing rocket motors and propellants and is contaminated with PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), asbestos, and other materials. Considerable remediation has already been accomplished at this site, including systems to monitor groundwater and drinking water wells and the removal of 75 rusting and leaking drums. The final cleanup plan will include the demolition or removal of 34 buildings and other structures at the site. Among the other Superfund sites visited by Frelinghuysen yesterday were: Mansfield Trail Dump, in Byram Township, Sussex County, where he was joined by Byram Township councilmembers David Gray, Nisha Kash, Scott Olson, and Marie Raffay; Rockaway Township Wells, Rockaway Twp., Morris County; Rockaway Borough Well Field, Rockaway Borough, Morris County, where he was joined by Assemblyman Anthony Bucco (NJ-25) and Joyce Kanigel, Rockaway Borough Council; Caldwell Trucking, Fairfield, Essex County, where Mayor Jim Gasparini accompanied Frelinghuysen; and Unimatic Manufacturing, Fairfield, Essex County. Administrator Enck accompanied Frelinghuysen at the visits in Rockaway Township and Rockaway Borough.
09.19.2014	Washington, D.C. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) announced today that the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded New Jersey Transit (NJT) grants totaling $1.276 billion under the Hurricane Sandy Resiliency program. Frelinghuysen, the only New Jersey member of the House Appropriations Committee, authored the amendment to the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, passed last year by Congress, which provided the DOT the funding for this grant program. “I am very pleased that these much-needed funds are being directed to New Jersey Transit,” Frelinghuysen said. “NJT suffered significant damage from Superstorm Sandy, disrupting the lives of hundreds of thousands of New Jerseyans. These grants will help cover the costs of repair to NJ Transit’s infrastructure and pay for measures to protect the system from damage in a future storm.” “We must fully address the damage done and protect vulnerable parts of New Jersey Transit’s infrastructure from the risk of destruction from a future natural disaster,” Frelinghuysen continued. “NJT suffered significant loss from Superstorm Sandy and this money will help ensure that this vital part of our state’s transportation network will be able to withstand another such storm.” The grants fund the following projects: • $88,903,190 for Train Controls (Wayside Signals, Power & Communication Resiliency Project); • $184,493,910 for Delco Lead Safe Haven Storage and Re-Inspection Facility Project; • $409,764,814 for N.J. Transit Grid; • $446,312,465 for N.J. Transit Raritan River Drawbridge Replacement Project; • $146,548,432 for Hoboken Long Slip Flood Protection.
09.18.2014	Washington, D.C.Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) was appointed by the Speaker of the House, John Boehner, to serve on the Official Escort Committee that this morning welcomed the President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, to the United States Capitol. Frelinghuysen then joined several of his colleagues in escorting President Poroshenko into the House Chamber, where the President addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress. “I was honored to be asked to serve on the Official Escort Committee to welcome President Poroshenko to Capitol Hill,” Frelinghuysen said. “I am also pleased I had the opportunity to personally assure the President of my very strong support for Ukraine. The United States must continue to stand with Ukraine in its fight to turn back Russian aggression.” “President Poroshenko’s speech was deeply moving,” Frelinghuysen continued. “He described the Ukrainian people’s passionate desire for freedom and national self-determination, and their commitment to defend their country from foreign invaders. I believe the United States can and should do more to assist Ukraine as they continue bravely to defend their country and their freedom. In advance of President Poroshenko’s visit to Capitol Hill, Frelinghuysen wrote earlier this week to President Obama to urge him to grant Ukraine status as a “Major Non-NATO Ally.” Such status would make Ukraine eligible for significantly greater military assistance than the United States is currently providing. Frelinghuysen first urged this action in a March 24, 2014 letter to the President. The White House has not responded to the Congressman’s March request, prompting this follow-up letter. “President Obama should have granted Ukraine Major Non-NATO Ally status months ago,” Frelinghuysen said, “With Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko in Washington to address a joint meeting of Congress and meet with President Obama, this would be a perfect time for the President to finally designate Ukraine a Major Non-NATO Ally.” Frelinghuysen hosted Ms. Roksolana Lozynskyj, a resident of Boonton Township, as his personal guest at the speech. Ms. Lozynskyj serves on the board of the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America. New Jersey’s Eleventh Congressional District is home to one of the largest populations of Ukrainian Americans in the United States.
09.18.2014	Washington, D.C. In a ceremony at the United States Capitol, Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) was presented with the “Guardian of Small Business Award” by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The award was presented by NFIB’s CEO, Dan Danner, in recognition of Congressman Frelinghuysen’s “strong small business voting record in the 113th Congress.” In accepting the award, Frelinghuysen said: "Small business is the engine of our nation’s economic growth. Small business creates almost two out of every three net new private sector jobs, providing greater opportunity and a better future for millions of Americans. Unfortunately, small business is often handcuffed by excessive federal regulation and taxes. I have fought in Congress to unburden our small business owners and entrepreneurs from these burdens that make it difficult for their businesses to reach their full potential. I appreciate the NFIB’s recognition of my efforts and I look forward to continuing to fight on behalf of America’s small business community."
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech to the nation last night about the Islamic State: “In recent weeks, the American people have awakened to the dire threat posed by the terrorist group, Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS), a brutal extremist organization. I welcome the President’s new focus on ISIS and look forward to further engagement with the White House on their plan.”
08.25.2014	American Leadership is Becoming a Distant Memory in Distant Lands by Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (as submitted to the Washington Post) As chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I just led a bipartisan Congressional delegation of committee members to the Pacific. Over the course of this trip, I met with Philippine’s President Benigno Aquino, as well as many other leaders in the Philippines, Indonesia, and Singapore. I also had the opportunity to visit with some of our American soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines, all volunteers, stationed throughout the region. During the course of my meetings, I asked one question again and again: How is America being perceived as a leader in the world? Despite President Obama’s much-publicized “pivot to the Pacific,” which was announced in 2011 with much fanfare, many of those we met with are concerned that the United States’ is really turning inward. They are especially troubled given China’s clear efforts to dominate both the seas and the airspace in the region as well as their national economies. They also wonder whether an America that is “leading from behind” – an oxymoron if ever there was one – will leave them behind, as it has so many other countries that once relied on America’s commitment to advance peace and freedom in the world. America’s retreat from the world stage has produced the greatest level of instability in decades. “To put it mildly, the world is a mess,” is former Secretary of State Madeline Albright’s blunt assessment. “Great nations need organizing principles and 'Don't do stupid stuff' is not an organizing principle," former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton observed recently. Perhaps the most succinct summary came from Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel. “The world is exploding all over,” he told a group of 200 Marines at Camp Pendleton earlier this month. Indeed it is. The list of trouble spots is long and growing and much of the turmoil is related to a lack of American presidential leadership. Ukraine has already lost the Crimea to Russian-backed “separatists,” and Russia continues to threaten Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Libya has descended into such chaos that the United States was forced to evacuate our embassy in Tripoli. Will we soon potentially see the same thing in Baghdad or Kabul? In Syria, the only “red line” that remains is the long trail of blood left by the brutal Assad regime. The President has certainly not proposed any plans for Congress to consider. Iran’s determined effort to acquire nuclear weapons continues unabated. In Iraq, ISIL now controls an area the size of Belgium, is on the border with Jordan, and is continuing its genocidal attacks on Christians, Kurds, and others who refuse to bow down to barbarism and forced religious conversion. In Gaza, Hamas terrorists, temporarily weakened by Israel’s successful efforts to reduce its ability to kill Israeli citizens, are undoubtedly already regrouping to pursue their stated goal of the destruction of Israel. In Nigeria, the Islamic terrorist group Boko Haram continues its brutal campaign of kidnapping and terror, proving that it takes more than a few of our military aircraft and a hashtag to defeat terrorists. North Korea’s maniacal dictator is still pursuing his goal of developing ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear warheads to targets thousands of miles away. And China, the Pacific’s increasingly emboldened bully, is expanding its sphere of influence both in the “blue water” by expanding its Navy and by restricting large amounts of airspace. These actions threaten the stability of the entire Asia-Pacific region. The world truly is a mess. This is not a partisan statement; it’s the assessment of many Democrats, Republicans, and non-partisan foreign policy experts alike. And what is President Obama’s strategy for meeting these growing threats to our national security and that of our allies around the world? Continued detachment and a “whack a mole” approach to foreign policy. The President seems to believe that he has only two options open to him, either using American ground fighting forces or doing little more than ordering narrowly targeted air strikes. At least that’s how he consistently presents the options in front of him. But that is a false choice. There is a wide range of options available to any American president who wants to assert America’s leadership role in the world as a force for peace and freedom. But those options are only attractive to a President who believes that our nation has such a role to play. As I heard again and again on my recent trip, people around the world continue to look to the United States to be present in the world, to use the full range of its power and influence to shape events in a positive way. The President simply must reassert America’s indispensable role on the international scene. If he does not, the violence and instability that is plaguing the globe will only continue to grow and our influence will continue to shrink.
08.18.2014	Morristown, NJ. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, has just returned from leading a bipartisan Congressional delegation of members of his committee to the Philippines, Indonesia, and Singapore. The delegation met with national leaders, including President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines, along with many other senior defense officials in these three strategically important nations, to assess the progress being made in President Obama’s pledge to “pivot” America’s military and diplomatic focus to the Pacific region. The “pivot” is designed to respond to the increasing belligerence of the People’s Republic of China in the area. “My talks with officials in the Philippines, Indonesia, and Singapore were enlightening. As a result of what I saw and heard, I am concerned that President Obama’s much-heralded ‘pivot’ to the Pacific is falling far short of where it should be three years after it was announced,” Frelinghuysen said. “America’s allies and partners in this vitally important area of the world are depending on the United States to help discourage and deter Chinese efforts to dominate both the sea and airspace in the Pacific.” Congressman Frelinghuysen also met with men and women in the Armed Forces, all volunteers, who are serving in the area. He expressed his appreciation for their commitment to defending America’s interests in the region and around the world. The delegation included Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) (who is also the chair of the House Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee), Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman James Moran (VA-8). ###
08.08.2014	Morristown, NJ. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen issued the following statement on the passing of Joan Bramhall: "I am shocked and saddened by the tragic passing of my friend Joan Bramhall. Joan was a much beloved leader in Morris County and across the State of New Jersey. An exceptional mother and grandmother, Joan was also second to none as a public servant. A former chair of the Morris County Republican Party, onetime Freeholder and longtime County Clerk, Joan gave so much of herself serving others. “She was also an early role model for women in politics and government, inspiring countless others by her leadership and example. My thoughts and prayers are with Joan's family at this heartbreaking time." ###
08.08.2014	The Montclair Times: Montclair resident interns with U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen
08.08.2014	Hanover Eagle: East Hanover resident finishes Congressional internship
08.01.2014	Washington, D.C. The following statement by Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) appeared in today’s Congressional Record: Mr. Speaker: Because I stand with Israel I rise in strong support of this bill to provide $225 million to the State of Israel to support the Iron Dome system. These funds are in addition to what the House has already approved in the FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill. For the past four weeks, Israel and the Israeli people have been subjected to a relentless attack by the terrorist organization Hamas. Hamas has fired thousands of rockets from Gaza into Israel, deliberately attempting to kill as many Israelis and damage as much Israeli property as it possibly can. These indiscriminate attacks would likely have killed large numbers of Israelis and destroyed untold amounts of property except for one thing – the Iron Dome. The Iron Dome has proven to be a remarkably effective defensive weapon, destroying rockets headed for targets in populated areas, saving lives and protecting property from Hamas’s terror from the skies. It is crucial that the Israelis continue to be able to employ and improve the Iron Dome to repel these terrorist rocket attacks. The funds we approve today will enable Israel to continue to defend itself and its people from these wanton terrorist attacks. The clearest way this House can demonstrate that it stands with Israel is by overwhelmingly approving this bill. Let’s show the people of Israel that we stand with them and let’s show Hamas, and anyone else who would threaten Israel’s right to exist, that we will not stand by and give their ruthless mission even the slightest possibility of success. ###
07.31.2014	Washington, D.C. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) released the following statement following House passage of HR 3230, The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act Of 2014. (A summary of the bill’s highlights, prepared by the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, follows) “The recent reports of excessive wait times, falsified records, and gross inefficiencies across the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system were deeply troubling and completely unacceptable. Our country has a sacred obligation to ensure that those veterans who are eligible for health care through the VA receive the best possible medical care in a timely and efficient manner. The bill passed by the House today, with my strong support, will help ensure that they do. Providing eligible veterans with the ability to go outside the VA system if they cannot be given an appointment within 30 days will make certain that no veteran has to endure an excessive wait for needed medical care. The management reforms this bill contains will give the VA greater authority to fire or demote supervisory employees for poor performance or misconduct. The additional funding the bill provides will give the VA added resources to make long-term changes to improve its health care system to better serve our veterans. Establishing a Congressional Commission on Care will allow us to make sure the improvements we expect are being carried out. “The new secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Robert A. McDonald, must act swiftly and firmly to end the mismanagement that has plagued the Department and let down our veterans. We have given him the tools. Now he must do the job.” The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 Highlights To improve access to and quality of care for veterans, the bill would: •Require VA to offer an authorization to receive non-VA care to any veteran who is enrolled in the VA health care system as of August 1, 2014, or who is a newly discharged combat veteran if such veteran is unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days (or a future published goal established by VA) or resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility, with certain exceptions. o Require VA to provide a Veterans Choice Card to eligible veterans to facilitate care provided by non-VA providers. o Provide $10 billion for the newly-established “Veterans Choice Fund” to cover the costs of this increased access to non-VA care. Choice program authority would end when funds are exhausted or three years after enactment, whichever occurs first. •Require an independent assessment of VA medical care and establish a Congressional Commission on Care to evaluate access to care throughout the VA health care system. •Extend the ARCH (Access Received Closer to Home) pilot program for two years. •Extend for three years a pilot program to provide rehabilitation, quality of life, and community integration services to veterans with complex-mild to severe traumatic brain injury. •Improve the delivery of care to veterans who have experienced military sexual trauma as well as care for Native Hawaiian and Native American veterans. To expand VA’s internal capacity to provide timely care to veterans, the bill would: •Provide $5 billion to VA to increase access to care through the hiring of physicians and other medical staff and by improving VA’s physical infrastructure. •Authorize 27 major medical facility leases in 18 states and Puerto Rico. To provide real accountability for incompetent or corrupt senior managers, the bill would: •Authorize VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service (SES) employees and Title 38 SES equivalent employees for poor performance or misconduct. Provide an expedited and limited appeal process for employees disciplined under this authority. Appeals would go to a Merit Systems Protection Board administrative judge, who would have 21 days to decide on the appeal. If a decision is not reached within that 21-day period, then VA’s decision to remove or demote the executive is final. Prohibit SES employees from receiving pay, bonuses and benefits during the appeal process. •Reduce funding for bonuses available to VA employees by $40 million each year through FY 2024. To improve education benefits for veterans and dependents, the bill would: •Require public colleges to provide in-state tuition to veterans and eligible dependents in order for the school to remain eligible to receive G.I. Bill education payments. •Expand the Sgt. Fry Scholarship Program to provide full Post 9/11 G.I. Bill benefits to spouses of servicemembers who died in the line of duty after 9/11. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would result in net spending of roughly $10 billion from 2014 - 2024, making it less expensive than previous VA reform packages passed by the House and Senate.
07.16.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that his request for $3.5 million for land acquisition in the Highlands region is included in the FY 2015 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill was passed by the Appropriations Committee today and has been referred to the full House for further action. “I am delighted that the House Appropriations Committee has strongly supported my request for $3.5 million for additional land acquisition through the Highlands Conservation Act program,” Frelinghuysen said. “Preserving and protecting this vitally important natural region has been a top priority of mine for many years. Ensuring the environmental health of this region is essential to safeguarding the quality of life for the more than 15 million people who get their drinking water from sources in the Highlands watershed.” “This appropriation, in a time of budgetary restraint, shows just how well the Highlands Conservation Act has been working. The Act requires that every federal dollar be matched 100 percent by non-federal dollars. The $14.25 million that has been previously appropriated under the Act has leveraged state, local, and private funds at a better than two-to-one ratio,” Frelinghuysen continued. “This represents public-private environmental partnerships at their best. By leveraging non-federal dollars, the federal government can support the acquisition of environmentally sensitive land, owned by willing sellers, to advance the public good.” Anthony Cucchi, the New Jersey State Director for The Trust for Public Land expressed his appreciation for Congressman Frelinghuysen’s effort to secure this funding: “Thanks to Congressman Frelinghuysen's support and work over the past several months on the FY 2015 Interior Appropriations bill, critical funding is now included for important projects in the Highlands of New Jersey, as well as in Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania. We appreciate the Congressman's continued support of the Land and Water Conservation Fund and his commitment to protect the region's important recreational lands, forests, wildlife, and water quality for all to enjoy.” The Highlands cover more than three million acres across New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut. To date, more than 5,000 acres in the 4-state Highlands Region have been protected under the Act. The Highlands Region supplies drinking water for more than 15 million people, provides habitat for more hundreds of plant and animal species, and provides recreational opportunities for the millions of people who live within the region. ###
07.15.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Robert A. Roe. “New Jersey has lost one of its most dedicated public servants with the passing of Congressman Bob Roe. A veteran of World War II, a former mayor of Wayne, a Passaic County freeholder, a member of Governor Hughes’ cabinet, and a member of Congress, he served in every level of government over a long and productive career. “During his nearly 24 years in Congress, Bob Roe was a leader who earned the respect of his constituents and his colleagues as Mr. Transportation for New Jersey, as Chairman of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee. Well into his retirement, he was a friend and advisor to me. He has left a legacy of accomplishment that will long endure.” ###
07.02.2014	Recently, Rep. Frelinghuysen was able to congratulate winners of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition and 2014 House STEM App Competition. "Students of New Jersey's 11th Congressional District have long distinguished themselves as some of the best and brightest in the country," Rodney said. "I am proud of the hard work and talent displayed by both Sean Maltby and Lauren Sciscone in these competitions." Lauren's art will be hung in the U.S. Capitol for the next year and Sean's app will be on display on the House of Representatives webpage later this summer. 2014 Congressional Art Competition Winner Lauren Sciscone's (of Nutley) work "Oil and Water" 2014 House STEM App Competition Winner Sean Maltby (of Chatham) Sean's app "Lone Archer" can be previewed here.
07.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. The House of Representatives passed, by an overwhelming bi-partisan vote of 340-73, H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill. This bill provides funding for America’s defense and intelligence activities in the coming fiscal year, which begins October 1, 2014. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, managed House consideration of the bill over three days of debate on the House floor. In total, the bill provides $491 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $4.1 billion above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and $200 million above the President’s request. Mr. Frelinghuysen issued the following statement upon passage of the bill: “I thank my colleagues for their strong, bipartisan support of the FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill. This bill meets the two goals I set at the first hearing our Defense Appropriations Subcommittee held earlier this year. “First, it ensures that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to defend our nation and support their families. “Second, it ensures that the Department of Defense and Intelligence community have the resources they need to carry out their mission in the most efficient and effective manner. “I am pleased that the House supported the committee’s recommendations, including providing: An additional $1.2 billion above the President’s request to fill readiness shortfalls; Full funding for the authorized 1.8 percent pay raise for the troops; All the funds needed to begin the refueling of aircraft carrier USS George Washington – a vital power projection platform; and An additional $39 million for suicide prevention activities, $19 million of it targeted specifically to our Special Forces. "These are but a few examples of our commitment to U.S. military dominance across the air, land and sea; our commitment to our allies and partners; and our commitment to our service-members (all of whom are volunteers) and their families. “The strong bipartisan support for this bill demonstrates that Congress can work together across the aisle to achieve common goals.” ###
06.26.2014	Original Press Release from Essex County, New Jersey 5/14/14 West Orange, NJ – Essex County Executive Joseph N. DiVincenzo, Jr. and Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura announced the renovation and modernization of the Essex County Office of Emergency Management in West Orange. Severely damaged during Hurricane Irene in 2011, the Essex County Department of Public Works redesigned the OEM offices and area storm drains to address the potential for future floods and the Sheriff worked with FEMA and the NJ State Police to secure mitigation funds to fund the facility’s restoration. “It was ironic that our Office of Emergency Management, where we plan and coordinate our response to emergencies and natural disasters, was severely damaged by a storm. The changes and upgrades address the flooding issues at the facility and the new equipment provides us with enhanced tools and resources to work with our communities,” DiVincenzo said. “Getting this facility back on track was the result of teamwork between our Public Works Department, the Sheriff’s Office and Federal and State emergency response professionals,” he added. “Hurricane Irene was a learning experience for all of us. As a result of the work to renovate the building and mitigate the flood damage, we have a much more modern facility,” Fontoura said. “I commend everyone for working together to get this done and appreciate the support we received from our State and Federal partners,” he added. “These are the types of investments that pay off in the future,” Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “I am proud to support the men and women who work in emergency management and make sure we are prepared,” he added. During the height of Hurricane Irene in August 2011, the Office of Emergency Management, located in Essex County Codey Arena, was overcome with approximately two feet of flood water originating from the nearby Peckman River and Orange Reservoir. The storm severely damaged the facility and raised awareness about the need to address the potential for flooding during future storms. The Sheriff’s Office secured $475,000 from FEMA and $500,000 from Homeland Security/UASI for the facility’s renovation and the Essex County Department of Public Works redesigned the elevation and storm drains surrounding the Office of Emergency Management, which is located in the rear of Essex County Codey Arena in the Essex County South Mountain Recreation Complex in West Orange. The building was equipped with a raised floor and all computer servers and sensitive equipment was relocated to the second floor. In addition, two emergency generators were installed to provide emergency backup power. The OEM office is now equipped with an Activue Video Wall; has the capability of connecting to video feeds from cable news networks, traffic cameras, FAA flight maps, satellite map images and weather maps; has full dispatch capabilities with every public safety and law enforcement agency in Essex County; is equipped with blueprint scanning equipment to convert paper records into digital files that can be viewed on the Activue Wall or e-mailed to responders in the field. The Essex County Office of Emergency Management relocated to Essex County Codey Arena in 2009. It occupies the space once used by the New Jersey Devils when the NHL team used the arena as its practice site.
06.20.2014	Chairman Frelinghuysen Statement in Support of H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill Washington, June 18. 2014 - Defense Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen gave the following statement on the House floor today in support of H.R. 4870, the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations bill: "As we begin consideration of this important legislation, I want to pay tribute to the men and women of our Armed Forces – all volunteers. They deserve our heartfelt thanks for their dedicated service and the sacrifices of their families. And everything we do over the next few days should be dedicated to them. "My Colleagues, the fiscal year 2015 Department of Defense appropriations bill was reported out unanimously by the full Appropriations Committee on June 10. "This recommendation is the product of countless staff hours, 10 official briefings, and 13 hearings. "Most of our hearings related to assuring success and reducing risk for our warfighters and their mission. "It is worth noting that one of these hearings was exclusively dedicated to taking testimony from members of the House on their views, opinions and priorities for this year’s defense appropriations bill. "I want to thank those members who took the time to inform and educate the committee, as well as other members who made specific requests. "At the outset, I would also like to thank Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey for their support of the committee’s work. As they know, this bill is the product of a bipartisan and cooperative effort, for which I thank my good friend, the Ranking Member, Pete Visclosky. He has been a valuable partner throughout this whole process. And thanks to all members and our incredible staff! "The base funding recommendation is $491 billion, which is $202 million above the President’s request and $4.1 billion above last year’s enacted level. "As many members are aware, the Committee has not yet received the President’s recommendation for Overseas Contingency Operations – the OCO budget - so we are forced to include a $79.4 billion “placeholder” in this legislation. "Our Committee operates in a completely transparent and accountable manner, so clearly, this is not the way we wanted to proceed to the floor – with no details, with no context, with no facts for those accounts. "We have pressed Administration officials at every opportunity (I spoke to Secretary Hagel as recently as last Thursday) to get us an OCO plan. "The Administration has told us for months that it is finalizing its plans for the “enduring U.S. military presence in Afghanistan” which will have a serious impact on the size of that funding request. "Well, three weeks ago, the President announced his plans for U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan beyond this year. The Army and Marines already have closed down bases and removed tons of equipment. Still we have NO request and are forced to “debate” a placeholder of nearly $80 billion! "While the Afghan Presidential elections are still unsettled, the leading candidates support the Bilateral Security Agreement. "So what’s the hold up? Let’s get on with it! "(And I have to say that many people find it just a bit bizarre that the Administration has proclaimed its opposition to this bill when they have failed to do their job and lay out their game plan for overseas operations.) "But whatever the recommendation we ultimately receive, we will closely examine their request because we will still have troops on the ground and, no matter the number, they need to be protected. "Of course, we will also consider: the deepening (civil) war in Iraq; the continuing disintegration of Syria; the aggressiveness of Russia in eastern Europe and China in the Pacific; the growing influence of Iran; and increased terrorist attacks across the globe, especially in Africa. "So, while the Administration feels the pending OCO request will have a great deal to do with our “enduring U.S. military presence in Afghanistan,” in reality their request will have a great deal to do with our enduring role in the fight to protect Americans and our homeland from a growing list of global threats. "Even though we’ve returned to “regular order” this year, the Committee faced many challenges in crafting this year’s Defense bill, but we held firm to two guiding principles: Ensuring that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to defend our nation and support their families; and ensuring the Department of Defense and Intelligence community have the resources they need to carry out their mission in the most efficient and effective manner. "Our goal throughout this bill is to support our warfighters now and in the future, whenever the next crisis arises. "At the same time, our committee clearly recognizes the nation's debt crisis and we found areas and programs where reductions were possible without adversely impacting our Armed Forces. "Frankly, it is important that we make every dollar count without harming readiness or increasing the risks incurred by our warfighters "The bill before you attempts to meet those responsibilities, within current fiscal constraints, while leaving no question for our allies and adversaries about our will and our ability to defend ourselves and our interests around the world. "America must continue to lead and this bipartisan bill enables that leadership. "Let me highlight just a few items included in this FY ’15 Defense Appropriations request: An additional $1.2 billion to fill readiness shortfalls; $534 million to fully fund the authorized 1.8 percent pay raise for the troops; $789 million to begin the refueling of USS George Washington – a vital power projection platform; $5.8 billion for a total of 38 Joint Strike Fighters; $975 million to buy 12 additional Electronic Attack Growlers (EA-18G); $120 million to upgrade M1 Abrams tanks; $351 million for the Israeli Cooperative Program; An additional $39 million for suicide prevention activities, $19 million of it targeted specifically to our Special Forces. "These are but a few examples of our commitment to U.S. military dominance across the air, land and sea; our commitment to our allies and partners; and our commitment to our service-members (all volunteers) and their families; "Mr. Chairman, I understand that Americans are weary after 13 years of war. "Despite the proclamations of some that al-Qaeda and its followers have been decimated, the American people must understand the reality that terrorism is actually spreading worldwide. "Yes, our enemies have sustained serious damage, inflicted by the most skillful and powerful military-intelligence organization on the globe. But in many cases, these enemies have adapted, and grown to become even more dangerous. "We are witnessing an alarming collapse in Iraq. The central government now controls less than half of its own sovereign territory as it reels before a full-blown insurgency. The concept of an autonomous Jihadi state or Caliphate determined to attack the West is an unacceptable development that demands a response. "We “pivot” elsewhere at our own peril! "National defense is the priority job of the federal government. Our Constitution grants Congress the full range of authorities for establishing the defense of the nation. "Our task in this House is to ensure that our military is ready to respond when the Commander-in-Chief calls. This legislation moves us toward a state of current and future military readiness that will protect America and I urge its passage. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reserve the balance of my time."
06.11.2014	
05.30.2014	Neighbor News: Hertzel Interns with Frelinghuysen
05.02.2014	Speaker John Boehner has announced the establishment of a “Select Committee” of the House to get to the truth about the terrorist attack in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. As a cosponsor of H.Res.36, Congressman Frelinghuysen has long supported setting up a special committee to investigate the events that led to the tragic deaths of American diplomats and security forces in Libya, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.
05.01.2014	Washington Post: Washington Monument Reopening to Draw VIPs
04.08.2014	FRELINGHUYSEN HAILS HOUSE PASSAGE OF THE SAVE AMERICAN WORKERS ACT; URGES SWIFT SENATE PASSAGE WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) hailed the passage last week in the House of Representatives of H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers (SAW) Act and urged the Senate to act quickly to pass it. Frelinghuysen is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “My vote today for the Save American Workers Act demonstrates my commitment to protect the jobs of American workers by repealing the ‘30-hour rule,’ a job-killing provision of the Affordable Care Act (ACA),” Frelinghuysen declared. “The ’30-hour rule,’ is already driving employers to cut workers’ hours to avoid the costs that will be imposed by ACA’s employer mandate. When the mandate goes into effect next year, affected employers will be required to provide health insurance to any employee working 30 or more hours a week.” “According to research conducted by the Hoover Institution, the 30-hour rule puts millions of workers with a median income of less than $30,000 at risk of losing their jobs,” Frelinghuysen said. “Those most in danger of losing their jobs are people who will have the hardest time finding a new one – workers without college degrees.” “I have heard from many small business owners in my District who have already seen the cost of their employee health care insurance coverage skyrocket,” Frelinghuysen continued. “As a result, many are wrestling with a tough decision. Because they are unable to absorb the huge increases in cost, they must choose between lay-offs or reducing their employee’s hours below 30 hours a week.” “According to a recent survey of small business executives by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, more than seven out of ten small businesses say they will either cut the hours of full-time employees or replace full-time workers with part-time workers,” Frelinghuysen said. “These results reflect exactly what my constituents have been telling me.” “I hope the Senate will consider this bill as soon as possible,” Frelinghuysen concluded. “When it comes to saving the jobs of American workers, there is no time for delay.” ###
03.28.2014	FRELINGHUYSEN URGES PRESIDENT TO GIVE UKRAINE “MAJOR NON NATO ALLY” DESIGNATION Washington, D.C. In a letter to President Obama, Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, is urging President Obama to grant Ukraine status as a “Major Non NATO Ally.” “[D]esignating Ukraine as a Major Non NATO Ally would send a distinct signal to the aggressors while setting in place procedures by which the United States can help the Ukrainian people defend themselves,” Frelinghuysen wrote to the President. “It has been said that the West won the Cold War ‘without firing a shot.’ History must not record that we lost this confrontation without lifting a finger,” Frelinghuysen concluded. -30-
03.27.2014	Department of Defense Budget Hearing: Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey Department of Defense Budget Hearing: United States Navy and Marine Corps Department of Defense Budget Hearing: United States Air Force (starts at 29:00) Video streaming by Ustream
03.13.2014	Frelinghuysen Invites Students to the 2014 House STEM App Challenge Observe Tribune: Students can create apps to be displayed in Washington D.C.
03.11.2014	Frelinghuysen Inspects Port NJ and NY Harbor Deepening Project: Applauds Progress Towards Completion of Channel Dredging WASHINGTON. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) today toured the Port of New Jersey and New York harbor deepening dredging project to see the progress made toward completion of this economically vital project. He was accompanied by Congressman Mike Simpson (ID-2), chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, and Major General John W. Peabody, deputy commanding general, civil and emergency operations, Army Corps of Engineers, along with other senior officials from the Army Corps and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The group also inspected landside facilities in Port Newark and Port Elizabeth. “The Port is one of the most important economic engines of the region,” Frelinghuysen observed, “and the deepening to 50 feet of the 35 miles of navigation channels is absolutely essential to maintaining the Port’s long-term economic vitality and competitiveness. Every time someone in the region makes a purchase – anything from a new shirt to a new car – the chances are very good that the items they bought came through the Port.” “I was eager for Chairman Simpson to see for himself the impressive progress being made on this project of national significance,” Frelinghuysen said. “Since I passed the gavel of the Energy and Water Committee to Chairman Simpson late last year, he has taken an active interest in this project and I appreciate his support for seeing it to completion in the months ahead.” Touring the harbor aboard the P/B Hocking, the delegation inspected ongoing dredging work at the Arthur Kill. They also observed conditions at the Kill van Kull, Bayonne Bridge, the Port Jersey Channel, and Global Marine Terminal. Congressman Frelinghuysen has secured major funding for deepening project annually since fiscal year 2002, ensuring that the funds needed to complete this project have been available. Frelinghuysen chaired the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee until late last year, when he assumed the chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. The Port of New Jersey and New York – the largest port on the East Coast and third largest in the nation – provides 280,000 jobs and nearly $11.6 billion in personal income and more than $37.1 billion in business income to the states of New Jersey and New York. The Port also generates almost $5.2 billion in federal, state, and local taxes. According to the Army Corp’s most recent figures, in 2010, 4,811 ships entered the harbor, transporting cargo worth more than $175 billion. -30-
02.26.2014	Frelinghuysen Advances Highlands Protection Act of 2014: Urges Its Renewal WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen today urged his colleagues to reauthorize the federal Highlands Conservation Act (HCA), a landmark piece of environmental legislation that Frelinghuysen authored and which was signed into law in 2004. Testifying before the Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation, Frelinghuysen called his bill “an essential program” that helps protect “over 3 million acres of New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut.” “The Highlands region,” Frelinghuysen continued, “is an area of significant natural beauty containing forests and environmentally sensitive land, which provide a habitat for hundreds of plant and animal species and provides recreation opportunities for millions of people who live in the region. The Highlands watershed lands contain reservoirs and aquifers that provide and protect high quality drinking water for millions of Americans.” Since being signed into law, the Highlands Conservation Act has protected more than 5,000 acres. The federal government has provided $14.25 million under the act. Those funds have been matched on more than a 2:1 ratio by non-federal funds, generating an additional $34 million to protect this precious natural resource in one of the most densely populated regions of the country. Frelinghuysen concluded, “While we have been successful in protecting thousands of acres over the last ten years, our work is not done. It is essential we continue to work in public-private partnerships and with our local, county and state officials to save open space in the Highlands.” -30-
02.11.2014	Frelinghuysen Votes Against Debt Limit Increase: Enough is enough. “I believe in paying our debts, but I voted against today’s effort to raise the nation’s debt ceiling because enough is enough. It is reckless and irresponsible for Congress to raise the debt ceiling, time and time again, without also enacting spending cuts and entitlement reform to offset the increase.” -30-
01.29.2014	Frelinghuysen Responds to State of the Union Address: Urges President to Work with Congress, Not Around it "The President issued a call for a year of action. I hope this year he finally will decide to work with Congress, instead of around it. "The President is certainly good at delivering speeches, but so far he hasn’t been very good at working in partnership with Congress to actually accomplish what needs to be done to put America back on track. "Unfortunately, the President failed to provide any workable, practical solutions for getting people back to work, reducing the burden of government, and launching our economy onto a sustainable path of real growth. "I will be working every day to promote job growth, reduce deficits, and create a stronger, more prosperous America. I hope that in the months ahead the President will sincerely try to work with the Congress to accomplish these important goals." -30-
01.14.2014	Statement of Rep. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense “I want to thank the Chairs of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees for their diligent work on the FY 2014 Omnibus Appropriations Act. “The allocation provided to the Defense Subcommittee is the direct result of passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act in December. Our base allocation is $486.9 billion which is $29 billion below the Administration’s budget request and $25.7 billion below the level of July’s House-passed FY 14 Defense Appropriations bill. Our allocation for the Overseas Contingency Operations is $85.2 billion. “With this lower allocation, the task of the Subcommittee was formidable – cutting $24.5 billion from the Administration’s budget request. Not many programs were left untouched, but we did our best to avoid major disruption to vital programs. Of course, the Subcommittee’s first priority is to restore and enhance readiness to allow our troops to execute their missions wherever and whenever they are called. “I look forward beginning the FY 2015 appropriations process and a return to ‘regular order’ which will provide our military leadership with much-needed budget stability and predictability. Even though the President’s 2015 budget request apparently will be delayed, the Subcommittee will be moving expeditiously through its hearing and oversight process. In this constrained fiscal environment, Congress and the Administration will be forced to make many tough choices. Our Subcommittee will be working hard to make every dollar count!” -30-
01.09.2014	Frelinghuysen Priority: Protecting our Emergency Responders Washignton, D.C. – With thousands of volunteer fire departments, first aid squads and emergency medical technicians (EMT) across the nation facing one of the unintended effects of the Affordable Care Act, the new healthcare law, U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has written to the new head of the Internal Revenue Service on their behalf. Due to the law’s requirements, fire departments and emergency squads must provide health insurance for volunteers working more than 30 hours a week. The current law stipulates that the ‘employer mandate’ must apply to organizations that have at least 50 employees, which can include multiple fire houses within one community. In December, Frelinghuysen wrote to Acting Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Danny Wurfel, “I am deeply concerned that subjecting fire departments and municipalities to this provision will result in services being reduced or eliminated.” He followed up today with a letter to the new Commissioner of the IRS, John Koskinen. “The vast majority of volunteers I speak with do not expect to receive health insurance from their departments. Volunteer firefighters and EMS responders do not see their work as a career or a part-time job – it’s a call to serve the community,” Rodney said. “And I know that volunteer fire and EMS departments operate on a shoe-string budget and they and their municipalities won’t have the resources to pay for health insurance for their personnel. Without this new bureaucratic burden, most groups already have difficulty making ends meet.” Rodney has cosponsored legislation that would exempt volunteer fire departments fire aid squads and emergency medical technicians (EMT) from providing health insurance to volunteers. However, until the bill is passed, fire chiefs and municipal leaders must wait to see how the situation will be resolved. Volunteers are vital in ensuring fire safety in New Jersey and across the nation. The National Volunteer Fire Council reports that there are 783,300 volunteer firefighters in the U.S. comprising 70% of firefighting force, and our nation has 20,050 volunteer departments. -30-
12.03.2013	Eighth-Graders Quiz Frelinghuysen on Debt, 'Obamacare' Published 12/2/13 by: Jason Koestenblatt, Editor, Mendham-Chester Patch
11.26.2013	Congressman Donates U.S. Capitol Flag, Meets Students Published on November 23, 2013 by: Kim Tran, editor, Parsippany Patch
11.25.2013	Jackson: Morris County Republican Frelinghuysen is the new guardian of the defense budget Published by: www.Northjersey.com columnist Herb Jackson, November 25, 2013
11.25.2013	The Record: Congress in Class Posted: November 7, 2013 Please take a look at this article, published by The Record, regarding my visit to Passaic Valley High School!
11.25.2013	Frelinghuysen is New Chairman of House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Washington, D.C. – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has been named the new Chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. He succeeds the late Rep. C.W. Bill Young, who passed away last month. “I am grateful to Chairman Rogers and the House Leadership for giving me this responsibility. The security and budget challenges we face are real and dramatic. The job before us is to provide for a strong national defense and support the men and women who provide for that defense each and every day.” The announcement was made today by the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Hal Rogers (KY). “Rodney is a thoughtful, steady, and strong leader, is staunchly dedicated to doing what is best for the country and his district, and has a determined focus that allows him to rise above politics to get things done. He has an unwavering devotion to the safety and security of our nation, and to the care and protection of our men and women in uniform, and I know he will be a great leader of the Defense subcommittee,” Chairman Rogers said. Frelinghuysen has served on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee since 1999. Most recently he served as the panel’s Vice-Chairman. The Subcommittee is charged each year with producing legislation that provides funding for critical national security needs and the resources needed to continue the nation’s military efforts abroad. In addition, the bill provides essential funding for health and quality of life programs for the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. -30-
11.24.2013	Statement of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Legislation to Re-Open the Federal Government and Lift Debt Ceiling “I voted to support compromise legislation to re-open the federal government and lift the debt ceiling in order to pay America’s existing debts. “Both of these actions will now be followed by bipartisan negotiations to attack our debt and deficit crisis. Reduced Washington spending, pro-growth tax reform and preserving and protecting Social Security and Medicare are worthy goals, if acted upon.”
11.23.2013	House Approves Frelinghuysen Measure to Protect “Families of the Fallen” WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives has unanimously passed legislation, introduced by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), designed to ensure that the families of military servicemembers who have died for the country receive government benefits they deserve. “Our government has no greater responsibility than to take care of the families of our brave men and women who have fought and died for our country,” said Frelinghuysen, the Vice-Chair of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “This bipartisan legislation provides continuing appropriations to ensure that if troops are killed serving our country, our government will honor its obligations to them and their families without delay.” The bipartisan bill was quickly developed after the Pentagon said it could no longer make "death gratuity" payments to families after the beginning of the new fiscal year on October 1 because of the government shutdown. The legislation approved by the House today: Provides for payment of death gratuities and other benefits, such as military housing allowance, to the families of fallen soldiers; Provides for authorized funeral and burial services for servicemembers and their families; Would also pay for families to travel to meet the remains of their loved ones returning home from the battlefield; During debate on House Joint Resolution 91, Frelinghuysen declared, “Our men and women serving in uniform serving in dangerous places all over the globe deserve the peace of mind of knowing that, during the worst of times, their families will receive the benefits they deserve immediately. This bill removes any ambiguity on this point.” This is the second time the House has voted to protect these benefits. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (CA) stated yesterday that Congress passed the "Pay Our Military Act“ with the express intent that all military pay and allowances would be dispersed during a government shutdown.” Frelinghuysen’s bill, passed by the House unanimously today, makes that authority explicit.
11.15.2013	DOD Resources Track Philippines Storm Relief Efforts Washington, DC -- The U.S. Department of Defense has launched web sources of updated information for residents interested in ongoing typhoon relief efforts in the Philippines Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has announced. “Our hearts go out to the many Filipino-Americans living in New Jersey who have lost loved ones or been otherwise affected by Super Typhoon Haiyan,” Frelinghuysen said. “In keeping with our finest humanitarian traditions, the United States is leading the way in to providing timely emergency assistance and relief.” The government of the Philippines requested relief from the U.S. in the wake of one of the worst storms in that country’s history. The U.S. Marine Corps estimates 4.2 million people have been affected. The death toll has reportedly reached 2,275. That figure is expected to rise, perhaps significantly, when accurate information is collected from the entire disaster zone, which spreads over a wide area of the eastern and central Philippines. The United States Navy, Marine Corps and the Agency for International Development are providing humanitarian relief efforts. To assist, the Navy has dispatched the George Washington Strike Group which consists of the aircraft carrier USS George Washington, cruisers USS Cowpens and USS Antietam, guided-missile destroyers USS Lassen and USS Mustin and cargo ship USNS Charles Drew, oceanographic survey ship USNS Bowditch, and submarine tender USS Emory S. Land. About 300 U.S. Marines are currently on the ground aiding relief efforts in the Philippines. Another 900 Marines from the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit based on Okinawa are deploying aboard the dock landing ships USS Germantown and USS Ashland, and are expected to arrive in the Philippines next week. Marine Corps MV-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft have been flying missions in the Philippines, and more of those aircraft are on the way. Residents can keep track of U.S. military efforts to help the people of the Philippines here. In addition, the Navy is coordinating relief and emergency assistance with partner navies such as Japan, Australia, United Kingdom, and Norway. -30-
10.21.2013	The Obama Administration has announced that it will be reopening the White House for limited public tours of the East Wing and Executive Residence, beginning November 5. However, instead of tours 5 days a week, they will only be offered 3 days a week. Unfortunately, the White House says it is unable to reschedule any tours that were canceled due to budget sequestration. To request a new tour, contact Congressman Frelinghuysen’s office (202-225-5034 or 973-984-0711) at the very least 6 weeks prior to the requested day and up to six months in advance. Note: the White House requires that we include security information with your request so please be ready to provide your full name, including middle initial, social security number, gender, city and state of current residence and birth-date. We encourage you to submit your request as early as possible since a very limited number of tours are available. All White House tours are free of charge. For the most current tour information, please call the 24-hour line at 202-456-7041. Please note that White House tours may be subject to last minute cancellation.
10.04.2013	Frelinghuysen Statement: Government Shutdown Frequently Asked Questions about the Government Shutdown Q: What does a “government shutdown” mean? A Government Shutdown means that there is a lapse in the funds appropriated to keep the federal government running. This occurred on October 1. As a result, portions of the federal government have “shut down.” Q: What services will continue? Services that are deemed essential for the safety of human life and the protection of property will continue. This includes the Armed Forces, border patrol, law enforcement, fire fighting, and federal workers who provide medical care on the job. The Postal Service and the Federal Reserve, which are both self-funded, will also continue to operate. Q: What will be the impact of a shutdown? All national parks and federal wildlife refuges would be closed for the duration of the shutdown, the Interior Department said Friday. About 9 million visitors were turned away from parks, museums and monuments run by the National Park Service in the mid-1990s, the last time the government shut down temporarily. About 40 percent of the nation's 2 million federal workers would be furloughed. Though Congress has approved restoring lost pay retroactively in the past, there's no guarantee lawmakers will do that this time. About 1.4 million active-duty military personnel must remain on the job but won't get paid until a new deal is signed into law. Active National Guard units also must continue to work. Most civilian employees of the Defense Department face furloughs. Some other possibilities: Delays in processing tens of thousands of passport and visa applications, issuing gun permits, continuing U.S. bankruptcy court cases and approving mortgage applications. Q: Will federal employees continue to be paid? In the event of a shutdown, each federal agency is required to determine which employees are “essential” and which are “non-essential.” Essential personnel are required to report for work as usual, while non-essential personnel will be put in “non-pay” status, or “furloughed.” Neither group, however, will receive any pay until at least the shutdown ends and maybe not even then. Neither group is guaranteed back pay when the shutdown ends, although this has occurred in the past. The compromise legislation that ends the shutdown will determine whether federal employees receive back pay. Q: Will air travel be affected? Will air traffic controllers and airport security officers be on duty? Air travel will not be affected. Air traffic controllers and transportation security officers are considered essential personnel. They will be on duty, but will not be paid until the government shutdown ends. Q: Will military personnel be paid? Yes. Congress approved and President Obama signed into law an order that ensures active duty military and select "essential" civilian personnel are paid on-time despite the shutdown. The 1998 guidance on a shutdown directs that "All military personnel shall continue to report for duty." Not all units will continue to operate, however, and military personnel may be assigned to other than their regular duties. Q: Will Social Security checks still go out? Yes, however new Social Security claims may not be processed. Q: Will I still be able to see a doctor if I am covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or another federal health care plan? Yes. Doctors will still see you and the various federal health care systems will continue to reimburse doctors. Q - Will I still receive Medicare and Medicaid benefits? According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), current Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries and providers should not be affected by a government shutdown. Medicare has 30 days to pay providers and payments. For new enrollees, they will likely not be processed or able to enroll in Medicare. Since Medicaid is a state-run program, and the funds are paid in advance to the states by the federal government, new enrollment would likely continue. CRS did detail that the agencies have considerable discretion when it comes to how it will continue to run. Q: How about veterans medical services? The Veterans Adminstration’s medical services, medical facilities, and medical support & compliance accounts will not have a disruption in their services. However, other services including VA call centers and hotlines, decisions on claims appeals or motions by the Board of Veterans Appeals, recruiting and hiring of veteran job applicants and outreach and public awareness activities will be impacted. Q: Will veterans’ benefits continue? VA hospitals will remain open. The VA has excepted VBA claims processors so that it can continue to process claims and beneficiaries will continue to receive their payments. In the event of a prolonged shutdown, VA will continue to review and update its plan in conjunction with the applicable legal requirements and circumstances. Q: Will I get my unemployment check? The federal government provides money to the states to finance unemployment insurance. Depending on the length of the shutdown, the states may run out of money, which would require the state to step in and advance the money to keep their programs running. Otherwise, benefits could be stopped. Q: Will federal retirees continue to receive their pensions? Most federal pension checks are issued electronically on the first of the month. The pension payments for October have already been authorized and will go out as planned. Q: Will I still get my mail? Yes. The U.S. Postal Service isn't funded by taxpayers. Independently financed agencies like the Postal Service won't be affected. Q: I am planning to visit Washington, DC. Will the tourist destinations in Washington, DC be open? Unfortunately, many tourist destinations will be closed. The various monuments and memorials in Washington are outdoors, are not gated, and are open 24 hours a day. This should not change. However, National Park Rangers will not be on duty to give docent talks. The Capitol Visitor Center will be closed and all Capitol tour guides will be furloughed. Tours of the Capitol Building will not be available. However, the House and Senate Galleries will remain publicly accessible whenever the House and Senate are in session. The Library of Congress will be closed; no tours will be available. The Smithsonian Institution will be closed. The Smithsonian includes 19 museums and galleries (most of the major museums in DC), the National Zoo, and several research facilities. As you will recall, the President suspended White House tours earlier this year. Q: Will passports and visas continue to be processed? No. The State Department employees responsible for these activities will be furloughed. Q: Will federal courts continue to operate? It depends on the length of the shutdown. During past government shutdowns, courts continued to operate using funds from court fees and funds leftover from previous years. Some courts declined to start new civil trials during the shutdown. However, if there is a prolonged shutdown, the courts may run out of funds and be forced to close. Q - Will Congressman Frelinghuysen’s offices in New Jersey and Washington be open? While there will be “essential” staff on hand at both offices per guidance by the U.S. House of Representatives, their abilities to assist 11th Congressional District residents with issues relating to the federal government will be significantly limited due to the shutdown. Unfortunately, the few remaining “unfurloughed” personnel on my New Jersey staff will be unable to staff our Walk-In Offices in Wayne and Nutley. However, please feel free to call our office at 973-984-0711 for assistance. Q: Will government websites have current information despite the federal shutdown? Probably not. As federal departments and agencies will be shutdown, information available on their respective websites will not be the most current available. Individuals needing information are encouraged to call 1-800-FED-INFO (1-800-333-4636) where information specialists are available Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. EST to answer questions. This call center will be open despite the shutdown. Q: Has the government been shut down in the past? Yes. The last one lasted 21 days from Dec. 15, 1995, to Jan. 6, 1996, according to a report by the Congressional Research Service. It came soon after a five-day shutdown that lasted from Nov. 13-19, 1995. A disagreement over tax cuts between then-President Bill Clinton and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, (GA), precipitated those shutdowns. Since 1976, there have been 17 shutdowns, though before the 1980s the government continued operating at reduced levels without furloughing workers.
10.04.2013	Americans everywhere are grappling with the effects of the partial shutdown of our federal government, a situation that angers me and that I oppose. I want to be clear: I have voted for multiple measures that fully fund the operations of the federal government in order to avoid the current shutdown. As someone who serves on a committee that is directly responsible for funding the federal government, the House Appropriations Committee, I am deeply disappointed that our historical, bipartisan committee efforts to fund the government on a timely basis, and to rein in Washington spending and overreach, have been circumvented. The American people deserve better. No one, the President, the Senate, nor the House Leadership, can continue to sit on the sidelines as inaction and paralysis stall an economic recovery and throws thousands of federal employees off the job! So how does this shutdown end? First, everyone should stop the ‘finger-pointing’ and the ‘blame-game’ and then sit down for serious discussions to work toward real solutions. It can be done. It must be done. In this context, I have been appointed to a Conference Committee by the House Leadership to work with all parties to resolve this crisis. We stand ready to begin bipartisan negotiations at any time on re-opening the government. We must also focus on the larger issue of America’s debt crisis, reducing Washington spending, pro-growth tax reform and preserving and protecting Social Security and Medicare. Secondly, everyone knows that the House cannot resolve this immediate crisis alone. Yet, the President has said he will not negotiate and the Senate Leadership says they will not talk. The American people expect us to work together. As an ‘eternal optimist,’ I am hopeful that we can see more bipartisanship and compromise. Our nation is counting on it!
09.26.2013	"Keeping an Eye on Morris County's Superfund Sites" By: Cindy Forrest Published in the September 25, 2013 edition of the Neighbor News (Denville Edition) On Oct. 14, 1947, Chuck Yeager wowed the world by breaking the sound barrier. Today, almost 66 years later, New Jersey residents are still paying a part of the price - financially and environmentally - for the events on that momentous occasion. In Rockaway Township, the engine and propellant used by Yeager to achieve Mach 1 speed were produced on a 263-acre property off Lake Denmark Road. From the 1940s up through 1972, activities at the site included the testing and development of rocket engines and propellants, including the ones used by Yeager. Since 1972, operations at that location have included radiation sterilization, production of architectural products, and production of and finishes for hardwood flooring. Given the materials being used at the site, concerns about possible environmental impacts led the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) and the Rockaway Township Health Department to conduct numerous inspections beginning in the early 1980s. The inspections revealed that toxins, including benzene, carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethylene, were improperly stored and disposed of resulting in contamination of soil and surface water And so in 1983 after decades of toxic chemicals and solvents being stored and used on the property, the site was proposed for inclusion on the Superfund and the Environmental Protection Agency's National Priorities List (NPL). It was placed on the list on Sept. 21, 1984. Superfund is the name given to the federal government's environmental program established to address abandoned hazardous waste sites. It is also the name of the fund established by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. This law was enacted in the wake of the discovery of toxic waste dumps such as Love Canal and Times Beach in the 1970s. It allows the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to clean up such sites and to compel responsible parties to perform cleanups or reimburse the government for EPA-led cleanups. The Superfund cleanup process is complex. It involves the steps taken to assess sites, place them on the National Priorities List, and establish and implement appropriate clean-up plans. New Jersey has led the nation in the number of Superfund sites, with more locations than any other state. In the 11th Congressional District, the tracking and mediation status review of the five Superfund sites has been an annual event for the past 25 years. It began when the late Congressman Dean Gallo represented the 11th District and has continued under the leadership of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen. The only year that the annual review had to be cancelled was 2010 when Frelinghuysen was called back to Washington, DC, because the House of Representatives was called into session. "It is important for me to personally visit Superfund sites to assess the progress being made," said Frelinghuysen. "New Jersey has more Superfund sites than any other state in the nation (147) but considerable progress has been made. Since 1980 when the Superfund program began, 33 sites in New Jersey have been removed from the National Priority List." Remediation at the Radiant Technology site has been ongoing since it was placed on the NPL list and continues today. According to EPA Regional Administrator Judith Enck, 75 rusting and leaking drums of toxins were removed from the site between January and March of this year. "No state benefits more from EPA's Superfund program than New Jersey," said Enck, "where the program is protecting people's health by removing the contamination left behind by the state's industrial past." EPA Project Manager Brian Quinn explained that the cost for the clean-up work performed so far has been about $4.3 million. The Radiation Technology site and two others on the tour, a well field on Enterprise Road in Rockaway Township and a well field on Union Street in Rockaway Borough, are connected, according Quinn. The source of the contamination from volatile organic compounds (VOCs) found at these two locations was linked to rocket motors that were built at the Lake Denmark site then loaded with the chemical compounds and tested in the borough. The EPA identified six parties potentially responsible for the contamination and in the end a settlement was reached with Cordant Technologies (formerly know as Thiokol Corporation and now a part of Alliant Techsystems). The two-square-mile well field contamination site on Enterprise Road contains a cluster of three municipal wells within 100 feet of each other. The area is contaminated with various volatile organic chemicals from nearby industrial buildings. An NJDEP clean-up plan called for the treatment of the contaminated ground water and the replacement of the existing air stripper, which forces air through polluted ground water to remove harmful chemicals. The air causes the chemicals to change from a liquid to a gas that is then collected and cleaned. Only one of the three wells is in operation. As recently as 2010, samplings revealed elevated concentrations of VOCs below several buildings on the site indicating the potential for vapor intrusion. Remediation was performed and samplings continue to be taken. The EPA has prepared a five-year review plan to ensure the remedy is effective. The Rockaway Borough well field site includes three municipal water supply wells that supply drinking water to 11,000 people. In 1985, the NJDEP investigated the site and concluded that contamination of the municipal water supply was coming from multiple source areas within the borough. Based on these findings, EPA initiated a follow-up investigation to identify the sources of contamination, determine the extent of it, and evaluate potential clean-up methods. The EPA's investigation revealed that the contaminated area encompassed nearby businesses including dry cleaners, auto body/service repair shops, banks, hardware stores, hairdressers, convenience stores, and food establishments. The borough police and fire departments, Memorial Park, and municipal parking lots were also within the investigation area. The investigation further confirmed the presence of volatile organic compounds, including perchloroethylene. The source of the contamination was a facility belonging to a company, Klockner and Klockner, which was responsible for presence in the soil of tetrachloroethene, a commonly used industrial solvent. Over the years progress has been made.
09.04.2013	Statement of Rep. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Vice-Chair, House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Now that the President has decided to ask Congress for authority to strike Syria, I await the debate. “We’ve seen over one hundred thousand deaths in Syria, millions of Syrian refugees fleeing to neighboring countries and an influx of various terrorist groups, and only now has the President of the United States decided to take military action as the result of the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime. “While I am horrified by the deaths of so many innocent men, women and children, I want to know how the President’s strategic plans will change the course of this civil war! I cannot support any authorization unless and until my questions are answered fully. “Having just returned from the region, I cannot ignore that a clear lack of Presidential leadership has left our Middle East policies in shambles. This Administration has virtually destroyed a 30-year friendship with Egypt, allowed Iran to continue its march to a nuclear weapons capability, threatened the stability of Jordan and left our best ally in the region, Israel, incredibly vulnerable!” “My sole interest is in doing what is best for the United States of America.” -30-
08.08.2013	Frelinghuysen Visits Israel Washington DC- Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) returned today from an official visit to the State of Israel with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). Together they met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Shimon Peres, Knesset Speaker Yuli-Yoel Edelstein, and defense leadership officials. The trip was undertaken to examine the current security relationship between the United States and Israel. As continued threats of violence linger, specific security talks examined the implications for a nuclear Iran, the humanitarian crisis in Syria, political instability in Egypt and the current state of negotiations with the Palestinian Authority. “The State of Israel has long been one of the United States’ closest allies in the Middle East and around the world,” Frelinghuysen said. “It is our responsibility to closely examine threats posed by violent extremists to our mutual interests of freedom, democracy and regional stability.” Rep. Frelinghuysen joined former Chairwoman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and current Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for the trip. Rep. Frelinghuysen is a member of the Appropriations Committee and serves as Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. He also serves as the Defense Appropriations liaison to the House Select Intelligence Committee. -30-
08.06.2013	Rep. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman, Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee The human face of joblessness – blue- and white-collar - is everywhere. So government jobs reports, however optimistic, provide a mixed view of our economic recovery. The official national unemployment rate remains frozen at 7.6 percent, with New Jersey’s rate much higher at 9.7 percent. While some “experts” see progress, there is nothing to celebrate if you are one of the millions of people unemployed or underemployed! Many people who have work are holding several part-time jobs. Older workers cannot retire because they still need income. Recent college graduates are taking any job available and there are not many to match their education. As I travel my Congressional District, talking with people on the street or in their small businesses, I meet people who have been job-hunting for years. Because these individuals are not reflected in the “official” rate, the “real” unemployment rate is probably closer to 15 percent! The annual Energy and Water Appropriations bill passed by the House this week is part of a plan: a “jobs plan.” Among its other important provisions, the bill contains over $46 million to complete the ongoing Port of New York-New Jersey Harbor Deepening Project – a largely unknown ten-year effort designed to keep our Port “open for business” to the largest ocean-going cargo ships. Securing this funding has been a key mission for me each year I have served on the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which I now chair. More than 90 percent of global trade, valued at over $1.7 trillion, moves by ship and the Port of New York and New Jersey is the largest port on the East Coast of North America and the third-largest in our nation, behind only Los Angeles and Long Beach, California. However, it faces competition from ports up and down the coast, including Baltimore, Norfolk and Savannah. But our efforts to complete this harbor deepening project have not always encountered smooth sailing. For many years, it was hard to focus the attention of state and federal leaders on this maritime commercial and national security priority in our backyard! And a few years back, the Obama Administration tried to cut funding from the project from $92 million to $57 million when the Army Corps of Engineers said it could use $107 million to keep the project moving forward! When the President finally signs this year’s legislation into law, the federal government and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will have invested more than $2 billion in creating deeper channels and berths. There has been a remarkable collaboration among the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Coast Guard, Army Corps of Engineers, shippers, terminal operators, unions and environmental organizations. Why is this important? The Port is the economic engine of northern New Jersey, spurring more than $36 billion in economic activity each year. The Port is responsible for 279,000 jobs, representing $12 billion in annual wages. At the same time, the port generates more than $5 billion in annual tax revenues to state and local governments. Tens of thousands of people are directly employed along the piers, docks, warehouses, truck staging areas and rail yards at the Port, with thousands more working in New Jersey companies which depend on this vital asset. The Port is critically important because we must remain competitive with other ports along the East Coast, especially as the Panama Canal is widened to accept the largest container ships on the planet! Our future jobs depend on it! Combined with the state and federal effort to raise the road deck on the Bayonne Bridge, the Harbor Deepening Project will put our region in a good position to benefit for growing global trade. Here at home, these projects affect the cost of goods, retain current jobs, add new ones, and help New Jersey businesses - a true ‘win-win-win’ for our state.
06.27.2013	Frelinghuysen’s Listening Tour Continues Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11th) will hold the next in a series of public town meetings on Saturday, June 29 in Wayne. All area residents and interested citizens in the 11th Congressional District are invited to attend. The details of the meeting: 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Saturday, June 29 Council Chambers Wayne Township Town Hall 475 Valley Road Wayne, New Jersey 07470 Frelinghuysen will provide an update on his work in Congress, including his efforts to promote the creation of jobs and opportunities, cut federal spending, oppose tax hikes, upgrade homeland security, and support America’s military service members and their families. “I hold public town meetings regularly to allow me to hear the voices of local residents,” he said. “The topics are theirs to choose. The opinions are theirs to give.” Seating may be limited. The facility is handicap-accessible. Constituent service staff will be available to address individual concerns. For more information or if you need assistance, please call Rodney’s local office @ 973-984-0711. -30-
06.19.2013	Washington D.C. – Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen today presented the Congressional Award Gold Medal to Robert Harvey of Morristown. Robert received the award in a ceremony in the Cannon Caucus Room at the U.S. Capitol complex. Each winner of the award spends two or more years finishing 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of personal development and physical fitness and a four night expedition. “The Congressional Award program seeks to build character and foster community service, personal development, and citizenship for our nation's youth,” Frelinghuysen said. “Robert’s personal contributions to Grow it Green Morristown and the Community Soup Kitchen clearly show that he fits these criteria. I was pleased to be able to personally congratulate him on his accomplishments. Chartered in 1979, the Congressional Award is the United States Congress' award for young Americans. It is non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive. The program is open to all 14- to 23-year-olds. Participants earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas; Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. -30-
06.14.2013	Rodney this week was bestowed the United States Navy’s highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Public Service Award. Secretary of the Navy, Raymond Mabus, made the presentation in a ceremony in his Washington office on Thursday. “As an Army draftee many years ago, it never crossed my mind that the United States Navy would see fit to honor my service,” Rodney said. “But I am truly honored to receive the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award. Supporting our sailors and Marines —past and present—has been, and will remain, a priority for me.” The citation from Secretary Mabus states: “Congressman Frelinghuysen’s long and selfless service to the Nation’s Sailors and Marines ensured they were provided the resources necessary to support and defend the Nation’s interests around the globe. His courageous leadership...greatly contributed to the quality of the United States’ naval forces, continued support for quality of life for the men and women of the Department of the Navy and made certain the Navy-Marine Corps team was the most lethal in history. Congressman Frelinghuysen’s tireless advocacy for the Navy’s shipbuilding programs ensured the highest levels of readiness for our combat forces. With grateful appreciation for years of service to the Nation...the Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen is awarded the Department of the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award.” The Navy Distinguished Public Service Award, established in 1951, is an award presented by the U.S. Secretary of the Navy to civilians for “specific courageous or heroic acts or exceptionally outstanding service of substantial and long-term benefit to the Navy, Marine Corps, or Department of the Navy as a whole.” Rodney serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Defense and with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He has served on the U.S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors since 2008.
06.07.2013	"I was saddened to learn of the passing of Mary Mulholland. Her unfailing support for our military, specifically her family's contribution to the U.S. Army and Special Forces cannot be overstated. "Her tireless efforts have made our community a better place to work, live and raise a family. As a founder of the Dope Open, supporter of St. Clare's Hospital and numerous other great causes, her selfless demeanor served as an inspiration to all who knew her. She was truly a 'Fighting Mulholland!'"
06.03.2013	“New Jersey lost a tireless advocate today with the passing of our friend, Frank Lautenberg. “For many years, we worked together as New Jersey’s Appropriations team – looking out for our state’s needs on Capitol Hill. I was proud to work with him on issues so important to the citizens of our state – transportation, homeland security and open space. In fact, in his final months, we worked in a bipartisan way to ensure that New Jersey has the resources to recover from an historic storm. We owe much to this dedicated public servant. “The son of Eastern European immigrants, a veteran who served his nation in World War II, Frank Lautenberg worked hard and lived the American Dream. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.”
05.24.2013	“Residents of Morris, Essex, Passaic and Sussex counties will gather in their hometowns this weekend to remember our unbroken line of heroes stretching back to the days when General George Washington encamped at nearby Jockey Hollow. “Since the founding of the Republic, the sons and daughters of New Jersey have always stepped forward to serve. And from the battles of Afghanistan and Iraq, to the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam, to the clashes of the World Wars, to the struggles that made us a nation, their names remind us that ‘freedom is not free’ and liberty is always the achievement of courage. “As we gather on Memorial Day 2013, it bears repeating: we are still a nation at war. Our thoughts rightly turn to the sacrifices of those men and women, and their families, who serve our nation with honor in our Armed Forces. Our prayers are also with those recuperating from wounds of war and veterans suffering the effects of their service. “This weekend, we honor the men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice for their nation and were last seen standing duty. “May God keep us ever grateful and may he bless the United States of America.”
05.21.2013	Statement of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen on Storm Tragedy in Oklahoma “Our hearts go out to people of Oklahoma in the wake of yesterday’s devastating storm. Our thoughts and prayers are with those who lost loved ones and the first responders and volunteers as they continue the hard work of recovery. “I am personally mindful that Rep. Tom Cole (OK), whose hometown was severely damaged Monday afternoon, rose on the House floor in January to support the people of New Jersey who were suffering amidst the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy. Just as he responded in our time of need, I am confident that Congress will act to ensure that the people of Oklahoma have all the assistance they require and deserve.”
04.10.2013	“While 65 days late, the President has finally offered his budget to the American people. Unfortunately, the document is once again filled with excessive spending and takes more taxes from New Jersey families and businesses, slowing economic growth and job creation, my highest priorities in Congress. “With that said, I feel it is important that we work to see if we can come together to produce results for the people who sent us here. In coming weeks, we’ll strive to find common ground. But even if we can’t agree on everything, our constituents want us to protect our national security and make a down payment on our dangerous debt.”
03.22.2013	Congressman Frelinghuysen spoke with students at the following schools in the 11th District: February 20- Joseph Kushner Hebrew Academy, Livingston February 22- West Orange High School, West Orange March 1- Lakeview Elementary School, Denville; Regional Day School, Morristown; Mendham Township Elementary School, Mendham March 11- Passaic Valley High School, Little Falls If you would like to schedule a school tour call Congressman Frelinghuysen Morristown office at 973-984-0711
02.19.2013	Parsippany Patch, February 19, 2013 Frelinghuysen Brings Civics Education to Life for Middle Schoolers The 11th district U.S. representative visited a social studies class at Brooklawn Middle School to share his views on issues of the day. • By Natalie Davis, Parsippany Patch • February 19, 2013 Joshua Weinstein's seventh grade social studies class at Brooklawn Middle School had a special visitor Tuesday: U.S. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-11th) spoke with 30 students to give them a behind the scenes look at what it takes to serve in Congress. The civics lesson opportunity was timely for the children, as they were able to engage with the congressman on a host of issues important to them. According to Weinstein, the students asked questions to Frelinghuysen about health care, marriage equality, college affordability, keeping schools safe, gun control, the nation's debt and the perceived legislative impasse in Congress. "The student questions were excellent and Congressman Frelinghuysen was very candid in his answers," Weinstein told Patch afterward. "The students thoroughly enjoyed meeting him." The teacher said Frelinghuysen also came bearing a gift: The lawmaker presented Brooklawn Middle with an American flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol in September 2012.
02.14.2013	Washington, D.C. --In a continuing effort to protect the drinking water supply for 11 million Americans in the northeast United States, U.S. Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) has introduced legislation to extend the federal Highlands Conservation Act (HCA) – reaffirming the federal commitment toward the preservation of the Highlands as a national priority. Signed into law in 2004, the HCA authorized $10 million a year for 10 years for land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases from willing sellers. Additionally, the law authorized one million dollars annually for the Forest Service to provide continued technical assistance and research in the four-state Highlands region: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut. Frelinghuysen’s bill allows the federal government to match municipal, county and state efforts already in place. To date, $14.25 million has been appropriated for the HCA. The funding has protected over 3,726 acres in the 4-state Highlands Region. Frelinghuysen’s legislation would extend the HCA for another 10 years. The program is currently set to expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2014. “This legislation recognizes that the Highlands are a national treasure that must be preserved. While we have been successful in protecting thousands of acres over the last ten years, our work is not done. It is essential we continue to work in public-private partnerships and with our local and county officials to save open space in the Highlands. While remaining mindful of private property rights, together we must protect this critical watershed region and preserve the area as a habitat for wildlife,” he said. The Highlands Region supplies drinking water for more than 11 million people, provides a habitat for hundreds of plant and animal species and provides recreational opportunities for the millions of people who live within the region. -30-
02.14.2013	“I welcome everyone participating in the OneBillionRising rallies in New Jersey and across the country. Thank you for publicly joining me in the effort to end violence against women. “Since the 1990s, I have supported the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), including its first reauthorization bill, signed into law in 2000. Why? Because I recognize that the programs created under VAWA make a difference in the lives of thousands of women. I have seen firsthand positive results in Morris County where the Jersey Battered Women’s Service continues its critical work. “My support for VAWA is longstanding and well-documented. In fact, just a few years ago, the head of the National Network to End Domestic Violence said my leadership on the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which boosted funding for VAWA programs, “is inspiring and heartening to victims and their advocates and will make a real impact on millions of lives.” I was also pleased to receive a letter from over two dozen victims and women’s organizations, including the National Organization for Women, which read, in part:On behalf of the millions of victims, advocates and professionals that our organizations represent, thank you for your extraordinary work to increase funding for the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)…” “As we are all aware, the authorization for federal appropriations under VAWA expired at the end of 2011. Both houses of Congress worked last year to reauthorize federal grants for shelters, training and law enforcement assistance to victims' services. “Knowing how important VAWA is to the safety of women, I signed a letter this week to Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor urging immediate reauthorization of this important Act. “The fact of the matter is this: I have supported for years each and every version of the VAWA brought before the House and anticipate doing so again in the near future. “Once again, thank you for supporting efforts to end violence against women.” -30-
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – The House today passed an amendment, offered by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), which added $33 billion to the Hurricane Sandy Emergency Relief Appropriations bill. When combined with another $17 billion amendment offered by Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY), the Frelinghuysen amendment brings the Sandy emergency assistance approved to approximately $50 billion. An initial $9.7 billion was approved to re-fund the National Flood Insurance Program more than a week ago. “For reasons beyond our control, the House got a late start on providing assistance to the storm-ravaged states of New Jersey, New York and others in the Northeast. But today’s vote provides a strong step toward getting this vital funding flowing.” In late 2012, the Senate passed its own version of the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Emergency Assistance legislation. However, the legislation lapsed with the end of the 112th Congress in early January. “I urge the Senate to act quickly,” Frelinghuysen said. “78 days after Sandy devastated the Northeast, our people are hurting and further delay will only lead to more misery, more uncertainty, more unemployment and put the region’s long-term recovery at risk.” The vote on the Frelinghuysen amendment was 228-192. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen represents New Jersey’s 11th Congressional District and serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. Further quotes attributable to Rep. Frelinghuysen: Next Steps: “Time is of the essence, we strongly prefer that the Senate take up this legislation quickly, pass it and send it on to the President for his signature. Failing that, the Senate must be mindful that further delay will only lead to more misery, more uncertainty, more unemployment and put the region’s long-term recovery at risk.” Building the coalition to approve $60 billion in assistance to New Jersey and the Northeast: “I am proud of the way our bipartisan New Jersey and New York delegations came together and worked methodically and tirelessly to brief our colleagues on need for the bill and the specific provisions in the measure. Leaving nothing to chance, I personally called and spoke to over one hundred House Members over the last few weeks.” What was your “pitch” to Republican Members? “I reminded my Colleagues of the proud tradition of the Congress: whenever a crisis or natural disaster has hit any part of the nation, the House and the Senate have responded and approved emergency assistance in a timely manner. Elected representatives from regions not affected by the flood or the tornado or the earthquake or the drought or the wildfire have always stepped forward to help their fellow Americans in need. We put together a responsible bill. It’s time for them to step up and support it.” Charges of “pork” in the amendment: “People claiming that this measure is filled with ‘pork’ must be reading from an old script. It is simply not accurate. The Appropriations Committee scrubbed the President’s request and the Senate-passed bill. We removed all Senate ‘earmarks’ and authorizing language. The spending in this legislation is either connected to the Hurricane Sandy recovery or is disaster-related.” Thanks for those who worked for hard for House passage: “Chairman Rogers and the Appropriations Committee deserve our thanks. One of the untold chapters of this post-Sandy story has been the hard-work of the Chairman and his staff in preparing both his amendment and mine.” “My House colleagues from New Jersey and New York showed bipartisan diligence and dedication over the past several weeks and our constituents can be justifiably proud. “We owe a deep debt of gratitude to Governor Christie, my constituent from Morris County, whose tireless work has helped us get to this day and will help us get this bill across the ‘finish line.’” -30-
