02.28.2019	Today, House Democrats passed legislation that would curtail the Second Amendment rights of Americans. Currently, the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) runs a background check on every commercial gun purchase. After three calendar days, if the seller has not received a response from NICS, the seller is allowed, but not required, to sell the gun to the purchaser. The legislation passed by Democrats today would create additional delays for law-abiding Americans to purchase a gun by allowing the initial review to go from three calendar days to 10 business days. Then, if there is no response after 10 days, the purchaser would have to petition the FBI for another review, which could take an additional ten business days. In some cases, the total number of business days would create delays of more than a month. Congressman John Moolenaar voted against the legislation: “Last year, I supported a new law to help fix the national background check system with more funding so states could update the system with timely information and keep guns out of the hands of people who are already prohibited from owning them. I voted against today’s legislation because it would presume all gun owners are guilty and create unfair delays for law-abiding Michigan residents who want to purchase a gun and exercise their Second Amendment rights.” ###
02.28.2019	The office of Congressman John Moolenaar is currently accepting applications for congressional internships in his Washington, D.C. office for Summer 2019. The internship program is open to college students and recent graduates who are interested in learning more about our country’s legislative process and the day-to-day operations of a congressional office. Intern responsibilities include conducting tours of the U.S. Capitol, researching federal legislation and assisting legislative staff. Interns will also have the opportunity to attend legislative briefings and congressional hearings on Capitol Hill. Applicants are asked to provide a cover letter, resume and any specific legislative issues or areas of interest. Applications will be reviewed on a first-come basis. The deadline to submit applications is March 22nd. College credits are available per school requirements. For more information and to apply for an internship, visit: https://moolenaar.house.gov/internships
02.27.2019	Today, the House passed legislation that would restrict Second Amendment rights guaranteed to Americans by the Second Amendment of the Constitution. The legislation would prohibit gun transfers between some family members, including cousins. If an American let their cousin borrow their gun for a hunting trip, the cousin loaning the gun could face one-year in prison and a $100,000 fine. The legislation allows for “temporary” loaning of a gun under certain conditions, but it does not define what “temporary” means. The vaguely defined law creates legal jeopardy for millions of law-abiding Americans. Congressman John Moolenaar voted against the legislation: “I support the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans. Every commercial gun purchase goes through the national background check system. The legislation put forward by the Democrats today would create legal jeopardy for Michigan residents who enjoy our state’s outdoor heritage and hunting with their families.”
02.26.2019	Today, Fiat Chrysler announced that it was adding 6,500 new employees to its workforce in Michigan and investing $4.5 billion at five facilities in the state. Congressman John Moolenaar welcomed the news: “Michigan residents are the best workers in the world and today’s announcement continues our state's leadership as the best place to design and manufacture automobiles. This massive investment will create thousands of jobs and benefit Michiganders across the state.” ###
02.15.2019	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed legislation to avoid a government shutdown and to secure our nation’s borders. President Donald Trump supports the legislation and is expected to sign it tomorrow. The legislation has: $1.37 billion for 55 miles of additional wall or physical barriers on the southern border. $14.9 billion for Customs and Border Patrol, an increase of $950 million over last year. $7.6 billion for ICE, an increase of $500 million over last year. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “It is vital that our nation has secure borders. I voted for tonight’s legislation because it increases funding for border security, which will help prevent the flow of illegal immigration, human trafficking, and deadly drugs, including opioids and fentanyl, at our southern border. President Trump supports this legislation because it is an important step forward in securing our nation’s borders and protecting the American people.” ###
02.15.2019	Today, the White House announced that President Donald Trump will declare a national emergency on the southern border tomorrow. A new media report tonight in Michigan is circulating the already debunked story that funding for the Soo Locks would be at-risk because of the emergency declaration. As this office explained in its press release on January 15, 2019, the funding for the Soo Locks is not at risk. Legislation passed last year says: “the Secretary[of the Army for Civil Works] may not deviate from the new starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.” Funding for the initial design and construction of constructing a second, freighter-sized lock at the Soo Locks was included in the Army Corp’s work plan that was submitted in November, protecting the funding under the definition of a new start. Congressman John Moolenaar was instrumental in securing funding for the Soo Locks and its inclusion in the Army Corps of Engineers work plan. He made the following statement tonight: “The Soo Locks are a vital infrastructure priority for our state and in the past year we have made more progress than others have in the past decade and a half. The funding included in the Army Corps work plan last year is protected and cannot be diverted to a new project. Through my work on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for additional funding in the years ahead because a new lock at the Soo will benefit Michigan’s economy and support jobs.” ###
02.14.2019	This morning, Congressman John Moolenaar attended the funeral for former Michigan Congressman John Dingell at Holy Trinity Church in Washington, D.C. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: “This morning’s funeral for John Dingell was a wonderful celebration of his life of public service to Michigan and the nation. My prayers this week have been with his wife Debbie, the Dingell family, and all of the people who worked with John during his decades in Congress. John will be missed but his legacy will live on.” ###
02.08.2019	Today, the office of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell announced the passing of her husband, the late former Congressman John Dingell. Congressman Dingell served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1955 through the end of 2014. When he retired he was the last member to have served in Congress during the presidential administrations of Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy. Dingell served a number terms as the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, one of Congress’s most powerful committees with broad jurisdiction over many issues facing the country. Congressman John Moolenaar was elected to Congress in 2014, the same year as Congresswoman Dingell. The two members have offices across the hall from one another in the Cannon House Office Building at the Capitol and are close friends. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: “John Dingell was a dedicated public servant who was deeply committed to his principles, his constituents, the House of Representatives, his sports teams, and his beloved Debbie. As the longest serving member of Congress he was a part of historic moments in our country for more than six decades. John and Debbie have been wonderful friends, and while we mourn his passing, we also celebrate his extraordinary American life and his distinguished public service to the people of Michigan and the nation.” ###
02.05.2019	Today, President Donald Trump spoke to a joint session of Congress and presented his State of the Union address. Congressman John Moolenaar attended the speech and made the following statement: "The state of the union is strong. Unemployment is under four percent, millions of jobs have been created, and tax rates are lower. It’s time for both parties to come to the table and work together with the president to build on the success of the past two years. If both parties work together, we can secure our borders to stop illegal drugs and prevent human trafficking, while welcoming people who want to enter the country legally to pursue the American Dream. "We can also provide more funding for roads, bridges, and other infrastructure including the Soo Locks. Finally, we can do more to prevent opioid addiction and find treatments for cancer and Alzheimer’s that will help our loved ones. Americans put different parties in charge and expect us to work together on these important issues facing the country." ###
01.29.2019	Receives New Assignment on the Committee's Agriculture Subcommittee Will Continue Working For Michigan’s Priorities Including the Great Lakes and the Soo Locks Today, Congresswoman Kay Granger of Texas, the top Republican on the House Appropriations Committee, announced that Congressman John Moolenaar will be returning to the committee in the new term. Moolenaar served on the committee last term and successfully advocated on the panel to fund key Michigan priorities, including annual funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The powerful committee is one of the oldest in Congress and it determines specific funding levels for federal departments, agencies, and programs. As part of his responsibilities on the committee, Moolenaar will be a member of two subcommittees. The first subcommittee will have oversight and responsibility for funding the Department of Agriculture, including its Office of Rural Development. The second subcommittee will have oversight and responsibility for funding the Department Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor, and the Department of Education. Congressman Moolenaar served on this subcommittee in the previous term and looks forward to continuing his work there. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today’s news: “Agriculture is vital to our state and funding for the Department of Agriculture helps our farmers and our communities, including rural development grants that meet critical needs for local governments. I am excited to serve on the Agriculture subcommittee and support Michigan farmers as they grow and produce food enjoyed here at home and around the world. “As our state’s senior leader on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to make sure Michigan’s most important priorities are funded in the years ahead. We must keep up the fight against the opioid crisis and give communities the resources they need to win the battle against addiction. We also need more funding to expand broadband access to residents in rural communities. I will also continue the work I have been doing for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and protect the Lakes for future generations. Finally, I will build on the historic success we had last year with the Soo Locks and work to fund design and construction in the years ahead.” ###
01.25.2019	Today, President Trump and bipartisan leaders from the Senate reached an agreement that will end the government shutdown. As part of the agreement, Democrats say they will negotiate solutions on border security over the next three weeks. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: “Thank you to the federal employees who worked hard to keep our country safe during this difficult time. As Americans, we all know with one party in the White House and one party controlling the House, leaders must work together to solve our nation’s most important issues. Democrats need to come to the table and negotiate serious solutions for border security to protect the American people and fix a broken system.”
01.18.2019	Today, students from Valley Lutheran High School in Saginaw visited the office of Congressman John Moolenaar in Washington D.C. The students, parents and teachers are in Washington D.C. to participate in the national march supporting the pro-life movement. They stopped by the office for a tour of the Capitol and discussed their support for the right to life. Congressman Moolenaar was in Flint today for the Flint Registry event, but he made the following statement on the students' visit to his office: "It's wonderful to see young people from Valley Lutheran going to Washington and participating in our country's civic process. The right to life is a bedrock principle of our country and we should do more to protect the unborn, who are the most vulnerable people in our society." Valley Lutheran students, parents and teachers visit Congressman John Moolenaar's office at the U.S. Capitol to show their support for the right to life. ###
01.15.2019	Recent media reports in Michigan have raised questions regarding whether or not funding for the construction of a new, second freighter-sized lock at the Soo Locks, which was authorized and signed into law in October, will be used for border security should the president declare a national emergency on the southern border of the United States. However, those reports, some of which were based on speculation made by political leaders, overlooked recent law that was signed in September that bars the Army Corps from redirecting funding away from newly started Army Corps projects, including the Soo Locks. The relevant section of the legislation signed into law in September is Division A, Title 1 of the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019. A copy of the law is attached with the relevant section highlighted. That law simply and straightforwardly states: “the Secretary[of the Army for Civil Works] may not deviate from the new starts proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.” Congressman John Moolenaar urged the Army Corps to include the Soo Locks project in its work plan for 2019. On November 20, 2018, the Army Corps, did just that when it presented its work plan to Congress with $32 million for the design and construction of a new lock. The new start designation is protected under the law cited above. Moolenaar is a long-time supporter of building a new Soo Lock. He voted for the law that protects Soo Locks funding in September and welcomed the project's inclusion in the Army Corps’ work plan in November. Moolenaar made the following statement today: “It is a false choice to say funding for the Soo Locks is at risk. We can build the Soo Locks and protect our border. In fact, we passed a law last year that I voted for that protects the Soo Locks funding from being redirected. I am working for Michigan's priorities in Congress and I will continue to support the Soo Locks in the years ahead. “Our country needs border security and it needs leaders who will come to the table to negotiate a solution that protects border security and gets the government back to work. Earlier today, some Democrats refused to meet with President Trump about funding border security. With a divided Congress, Democrats must come to the table, meet with President Trump, and negotiate a solution.” ###
01.15.2019	On Tuesday, the House of Representatives passed a resolution rejecting white supremacy. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the resolution and made the following statement: “It is our national creed that every man and woman is created equal with unalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Racism and discrimination has no place in our society and we should strive every day to treat each other as we ourselves would want to be treated.”
01.11.2019	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation fighting anti-Semitism around the world. The legislation elevates the rank of the Special Envoy on Anti-Semitism to the rank of ambassador and requires Senate confirmation for the position. Congressman John Moolenaar is a co-sponsor of the legislation and made the following statement: “Religious freedom is a core principle of our country and it is shared by people around the world. Recent incidents of anti-Semitism at home and abroad show there is still an urgent need to show support for the Jewish people as they face hatred and discrimination. By elevating the role of the special envoy, the United States is sending a clear signal to the rest of the world that our country will be a strong supporter of the Jewish people, as well as Israel and its right to exist.”
01.03.2019	House Democrats voted for more partisan legislation on Thursday. On Thursday night, Democrats voted to take money from Michigan taxpayers and give it to international organizations that support abortion. The vote comes hours after Democrats voted to make it easier to take more money from hardworking Michigan residents. Further, Democrats voted for legislation with no funding for border security, refusing to work with Republicans to protect the country. Congressman John Moolenaar voted against the partisan legislation and made the following statement: "I will always defend the right to life of unborn children in the womb because they are the most vulnerable people in our society and each of their lives is a special gift. It is disappointing that Democrats have made it a top priority in the new year to use taxpayer funding to end the lives of these innocent children. "Our nation faces important issues and I will continue to work for solutions for the American people. I have a record of leading bipartisan efforts with Democrats to fund protection of the Great Lakes and support STEM education. In this new Congress, Democrats should end their push for one-sided legislation and come to the table to support bipartisan ideas that can become law." ###
01.03.2019	Today, Democrats in the House of the Representatives voted to make it easier for themselves to raise taxes on hardworking Michigan residents. With one of their first votes in the new Congress, House Democrats eliminated a House rule that required a 60-percent vote of the House to raise taxes on Americans with middle-class and lower incomes. The rule had been in place for the past 24 years, protecting taxpayers since 1995. By eliminating the rule, House Democrats, who only have 54 percent of the seats in the House, are giving themselves a new power, allowing themselves to raise taxes on Americans with a party-line vote. Congressman John Moolenaar voted to protect taxpayers and he opposed the elimination of the rule. He made the following statement on today's vote: "The economy is strong, with unemployment under four-percent and wages on the rise. We shouldn't jeopardize that success like the Democrats did today when they voted to make it easier for themselves to take more money from the American people. Democrats were sent here to work in a bipartisan manner, but they are already tearing up rules so they don't have to work with Republicans. I will fight against efforts to raise taxes on hardworking Michigan residents, because it's always a good thing when Michiganders can keep more of their own money." ###
12.20.2018	Today, President Donald Trump signed the 2018 Farm Bill into law. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation when it was in the House last week and made the following statement on today’s news: “The Farm Bill is now law and it will help Michigan farmers as they grow the food all of us are thankful for and enjoy each day. With more certainty, Michigan farmers will know they have support even if the weather hurts their crops. “The Farm Bill will help small towns in Michigan and across the country with grants from the Department of Agriculture that will go toward improving water infrastructure, expanding rural broadband Internet access, and fighting the opioid crisis. “The Farm Bill is a win for Michigan and it will help our farmers and communities for years to come.” ###
12.12.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill, the Agriculture Improvement Act, which will support Michigan farmers for the next five years. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “Michigan farmers work tirelessly to feed our communities and people around the world. This legislation will help the 15,000 farmers in my district plan for the future, especially when they face natural disasters. Michigan family farmers are the best in the world and this legislation will help them compete for years to come." “The legislation will benefit more than farmers though. It authorizes federal funding to improve rural infrastructure and broadband access, so small communities can address vital needs. It also helps fight the opioid epidemic with a 33-percent increase for grants expanding telehealth services, so doctors can connect with patients and monitor their progress more efficiently." Additional Details Congress passes a Farm Bill every five years to help American farmers with certainty as they plan their operations for the years ahead. Today’s bill also provides significant support to America’s rural communities to meet the unique challenges they face. Opioid Crisis: The legislation empowers the Secretary of Agriculture to prioritize rural community development projects that will spur access to telehealth services and build medical facilities. One example is the USDA grant made to Sheridan Community Hospital in October. Rural Broadband: The legislation benefits rural communities with infrastructure initiatives and authorizes millions in yearly funding to improve rural Internet access. Infrastructure: The legislation authorizes billions in funding for rural infrastructure projects and also increases access to credit for rural communities to finance additional projects. Food Stamp Reform: The legislation increases the enforcement of existing work requirements to reduce fraud and waste in the system. New Farmers: The bill includes several provisions that will help new farmers begin operations. This will help recruit new farmers and allow them to establish themselves in an industry with prohibitive costs to entry. Crop Insurance: The legislation reauthorizes the crop insurance program helping mid and northern Michigan farmers plan for unforeseeable weather than can ruin a whole season of crops. Further details on the legislation can be found at https://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill/. ###
12.07.2018	On this day seventy-seven years ago, more than 2,000 Americans lost their lives in the attack on Pearl Harbor that drew U.S. forces into World War II. Earlier that same year, Alfred Asch, then a recent graduate of Beaverton High School, had joined the Army Air Corps, ready to serve his nation, and realize his childhood dream of becoming a pilot. He flew two tours with the 93rd Bomb Group (28 missions) and 455th Bomb Group (47 missions) during World War II. After the war was over, Colonel Asch continued to serve, as the Army Air Corps became the Air Force. He served through 1968 and earned numerous decorations, including the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with the Oak Leaf Cluster, and the Purple Heart. After he retired, Colonel Asch became a systems engineer with the Mitre Corporation where he spent 16 years developing automation for the air traffic control system of the Federal Aviation Administration. In 2013, he published his memoir, The Whole Nine Yards, and donated proceeds to the Beaverton Activities Center. It is because of Asch’s legacy of service to his country and his community that Congressman John Moolenaar introduced legislation to honor Asch and rename the post office in Beaverton. Last night, the White House announced that President Donald Trump had signed the legislation into law. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the news: “Congratulations to the Asch family on this tremendous honor for Colonel Asch. He was a patriot who never forgot where he was from and he continued to support Beaverton and Gladwin County throughout his life. This special honor will help his legacy be remembered for generations to come.” David and Peter Asch, Colonel Asch’s sons, also made a statement on the legislation being signed into law: “This is an exciting day for our family and we are thankful that President Trump has signed into law this special honor for our father. Congressman Moolenaar’s leadership made this possible and we are grateful for the work he has done to recognize our father’s decades of service to our nation.” The official renaming should take place in early 2019 and additional updates will be made available in the months ahead. ###
12.05.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar, along with his wife Amy, attended the state funeral for former President George H.W. Bush at the National Cathedral in Washington D.C. The service featured tributes from author Jon Meacham, former Prime Minister of Canada Brian Mulroney, former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson, and former President George W. Bush, the oldest son of the late president. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on attending the service: “It was a privilege to represent the residents of the Fourth District at the National Cathedral on this national day of mourning and to pay tribute to President Bush for his lifetime of service to our country. Today’s ceremony was a beautiful celebration of the gracious and generous man who led our nation through a challenging period in world history. All of the speakers made wonderful remarks and the president’s son gave a moving speech that undoubtedly made his father very proud. George H.W. Bush was a courageous patriot and history will remember him well.” A ticket and the cover of the funeral program for the funeral service of President George H.W. Bush. ###
12.01.2018	Last night, George Herbert Walker Bush, the 41st President of the United States, passed away in Houston, Texas. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on the passing of the former president: "President Bush began his service to the American people on his 18th birthday when he joined the military and heroically served as a naval aviator during World War II. In government, he represented our nation at the U.N., directed the CIA, and served as vice president. His own presidency was one of incredible achievement, and his leadership during the end of the Cold War brought millions of people out from under the Iron Curtain and into the free world. After leaving office, he demonstrated the grace and civility that always guided him, and worked closely with former president Bill Clinton to bring disaster relief to those most in need. "President Bush was a patriot. He was the right man at the right moment in history and we give thanks for his steadfast service to our nation. We raise the Bush family up in our prayers and we are comforted knowing that he is in a better place, reunited with his daughter Robin and his wife Barbara." ###
11.20.2018	The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has submitted its 2019 work plan to Congress. The plan includes $32 million as an initial outlay for the design and construction of a new, second freighter-sized lock at the Soo Locks. The work plan is prepared by the Corps as an outline of how it will allocate funding for its work in the year ahead. Congressman John Moolenaar, a long-time supporter of building a new lock at the Soo Locks, wrote a letter to the Corps in October requesting that it include funding in the work plan released today. The bipartisan letter was signed by 27 other members of Congress from Great Lakes states. He made the following statement on today's news: "My colleagues and I called for the Army Corps to include this crucial funding for new Soo Locks construction in the 2019 work plan. Today's announcement is real progress and it means design work will begin on a new, second Lock. We only have one lock right now and it's 50 years old, so starting this process sooner is vital to ensuring we have a second lock to support the millions of American jobs that depend on the iron ore that goes through the Soo each year. "Working with Congressmen Jack Bergman and Paul Mitchell, our colleagues in the House, and by gaining President Trump's support in April, we are now closer to making this project a reality for the first time in decades. I also want to commend the leadership at the Army Corps for including this funding in the work plan and I look forward to working with them as the project moves forward in the years ahead." ###
11.16.2018	The U.S. Senate has passed Congressman John Moolenaar's legislation renaming the Beaverton post office after the late Colonel Alfred Asch, a World War II veteran and native son of Beaverton. This legislation, authored by Congressman John Moolenaar, passed the House of Representatives in September and Senators Stabenow and Peters led the effort to pass it in the Senate. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. “Colonel Asch was an American hero and it has been wonderful to lead this special effort honoring him as a proud son of Beaverton,” said Congressman Moolenaar. “He bravely flew missions during World War II, helped develop post-war civilian flight practices, and never forgot where he was from, funding a scholarship at CMU for Gladwin County residents. I am grateful to Senator Stabenow and Senator Peters for their support of this legislation honoring Colonel Asch.” “We are so grateful for Colonel Asch, who helped defend our country during World War II and then continued to serve for many years in our military,” said Senator Stabenow. “I was glad to partner with Senator Peters and Congressman Moolenaar to pass this bill that honors Colonel Asch for his service.” “Throughout his distinguished military career, Colonel Asch displayed time and again the courage and conviction that was forged in Beaverton,” said Senator Peters. “Designating Beaverton’s USPS Facility as the Colonel Alfred Asch Post Office is a fitting tribute to his years of exemplary service, and I am pleased to see this legislation move forward.” Colonel Alfred “Al” Asch, who was born and raised on a farm in Beaverton, flew many successful combat missions during World War II and was awarded 13 medals including the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with the Oak Leaf Clusters, and the Purple Heart. He passed away on December 8, 2013 at the age of 93. ###
11.07.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar announced Lindsay Ryan to be his new chief of staff in Washington, D.C., starting on December 3. Ryan (née Schachtner), is a native of Midland and a graduate of Midland High School. She has a master's degree in public administration from The George Washington University and a bachelor's degree from Grand Valley State University. She previously worked for Moolenaar as a legislative assistant and also worked for former Congressman Dave Camp. Ryan will lead Moolenaar's office in Washington, D.C., where she was instrumental in the creation of the bipartisan Congressional Chemistry Caucus. "As a Michigan native, Lindsay understands the needs of the Fourth District and she knows how to get things done in Washington. She is a terrific leader who will help spearhead the work I am doing to protect the Great Lakes, support Michigan agriculture, and create good-paying job opportunities in mid and northern Michigan," said Moolenaar. Outgoing chief of staff Mike Telliga is leaving the office to work in the private sector. He started working for Moolenaar in the Michigan Senate and joined him when he was elected to Congress. "Mike was my chief of staff in Lansing and Washington. He led our legislative efforts with invaluable advice and a commitment to public service for the people of our state. His expertise and hard work have made a positive difference for Michigan and I know he will do a tremendous job as he begins a new chapter of his career," said Moolenaar. ###
11.07.2018	The office of Congressman John Moolenaar is currently accepting applications for congressional internships in his Washington, D.C. office for Winter and Spring of 2019. The internship program is open to college students and recent graduates who are interested in learning more about our country’s legislative process and the day-to-day operations of a congressional office. Intern responsibilities include conducting tours of the U.S. Capitol, researching federal legislation and assisting legislative staff. Interns will also have the opportunity to attend legislative briefings and congressional hearings on Capitol Hill. Applicants are asked to provide a cover letter, resume and any specific legislative issues or areas of interest. Applications will reviewed on a first-come basis. College credits are available per school requirements. For more information and to apply for an internship, visit: https://moolenaar.house.gov/internships
10.31.2018	Today, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced a new rural development grant that will help in the fight against the opioid epidemic. The department awarded a grant of $284,105 to the Sheridan Community Hospital to “develop a telemedicine system to address opioid misuse.” The grant will allow health care professionals to deliver primary care remotely to four locations across Montcalm County. Additional information is available in the attached release from USDA. Congressman John Moolenaar has worked on securing funding for increased rural broadband access and for the fight against the opioid crisis in Michigan. He made the following statement on today’s news: “Today's grant will help health care professionals on the front lines of the opioid epidemic. Doctors will be able to provide care remotely, while helping patients stay closer to home. Telemedicine offers new ways for patients and doctors to connect, and I will be working to expand rural broadband access so this technology can potentially be used in more communities across mid and northern Michigan.” ###
10.31.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar has co-sponsored the Great Lakes Restoration Semipostal Stamp Act of 2018, which would create a special stamp for five years honoring the Great Lakes, and using the proceeds to provide additional funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The funding would be used in addition to annual funding appropriated by Congress. Congressman Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and he has worked to secure funding for GLRI. He made the following statement after co-sponsoring the legislation: “This new stamp would let Michiganders show their support for the Great Lakes and help protect them for future generations. This is an outstanding way to provide additional funding for the GLRI and the vital conservation work it does with groups like Ducks Unlimited and public universities, including CMU.” ###
10.24.2018	Today, President Donald Trump signed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a historic new law combating the opioid crisis across the country. The legislation is a major bipartisan agreement borne out of the House’s work in June and the Senate’s work in September. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the SUPPORT Act when it passed in the House earlier this year. He made the following statement on today's bill signing: “President Trump has made stopping the opioid crisis a top priority since he took office. Today's new law will help prevent opioid abuse and provide more treatment for those in need. Through my conversations with families, health care professionals, and local leaders, I know there is an urgent need for assistance in our region. By empowering new research into pain relief and supporting efforts to stop fentanyl in our communities, this comprehensive new law takes on many of the problems associated with the epidemic and it will help save lives." More on the Legislation A 26-page summary of the legislation is available here. Major parts of the legislation include: New Research: The legislation provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. Jessie’s Law: The legislation will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. Safe Disposal of Unused Medications: The legislation will help reduce the number of unused controlled substances at risk of diversion or misuse by allowing hospice employees to safely dispose of these medications on site after the death of a patient. Stopping Fentanyl: The legislation authorizes grants to state and local agencies to improve coordination between public health laboratories and laboratories operated by law enforcement to improve detection of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. ###
10.23.2018	Today, President Donald Trump signed the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, legislation authorizing water infrastructure projects across the country. This includes a $922 million authorization for the construction of a second 1,200-foot lock for the passage of freighters at the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie. Congressman John Moolenaar has been a long-time supporter of the Soo Locks, and he worked with Congressman Jack Bergman and Congressman Paul Mitchell to bring the issue to the attention of President Trump during the president's visit to Michigan in April. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today’s news: “Today’s signature from President Trump continues the momentum behind building a new lock at the Soo. He has been behind it ever since my colleagues and I told him about it in April, and now we’ve made more progress than has been seen in over a decade. "To keep the momentum going, I have asked the Army Corps to include the design and groundbreaking of a new lock in its work plan for next year, which will be a sign of good faith from the Army Corps that it is planning to move forward on this crucial infrastructure for our country. It will also allow the process to begin one shipping season sooner and potentially save taxpayers up to $30 million. Today is an important step forward for the Soo Locks and it brings a new lock closer to reality.” On October 12, Congressman Moolenaar led a bipartisan letter with 27 members of Congress asking the Army Corps to include the design and construction of a new lock in its work plan for 2019. ###
10.19.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar - joined by Congressman Jack Bergman, Congressman Paul Mitchell, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur of Ohio, and 24 other members of the House of Representatives - has sent a bipartisan letter to the leadership of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers requesting the Corps include $74 million for the design and construction of a second freighter-sized lock at the Soo Locks in its work plan for 2019. The letter is signed by 28 members of the House from Great Lakes states, including the entire Michigan delegation. A copy of the letter is attached. In the letter, the members write: "We urge you to include $74 million in the FY2019 work plan for the construction of a second Poe-sized lock...this will allow design efforts to resume and construction to begin one shipping season earlier with a cost savings of approximately $30 million." The 2019 Army Corps work plan is put together by the Corps and lists its priorities for the coming year. The work plan must be submitted to Congress by November 20th. Construction of a second freighter-sized lock was authorized by Congress in recently passed legislation and inclusion of the funding request in the 2019 work plan would be a first step in making sure the project is funded in the years ahead.
10.19.2018	The office of Congressman John Moolenaar is accepting applications from high school seniors for nominations to the U.S. military service academies. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY. Details about the application process are online at https://moolenaar.house.gov/. Applications should be submitted to Congressman Moolenaar's office by postal mail: Congressman John Moolenaar 200 East Main Street Suite 230 Midland, MI 48640 The deadline for applications is November 9. Questions can be directed to the office in Midland at 989-631-2552. ###
10.16.2018	Today, Northwood University announced that President Keith Pretty will retire on June 30, 2019. Pretty has been president of the university for twelve years and has overseen unprecedented growth at Northwood. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on the news: "Keith Pretty has done a tremendous job as president of Northwood. His leadership has grown the university's reputation as an excellent place to learn about business, helping prepare students for good-paying jobs and fulfilling careers in the 21st century. Keith's work has made our community better and I wish him all the best in retirement." ###
10.10.2018	Today, the U.S. Senate passed the bipartisan water infrastructure legislation that passed the House on September 13. The legislation now goes to President Trump. For Michigan, the legislation includes the announced authorization of a new, second lock at the Soo Locks that can handle Great Lakes freighters. The legislation authorizes funding the Army Corps of Engineers estimate of $922 million for the construction of a new lock. Congressman John Moolenaar is a longtime supporter of building a new, second Lock. In April, Congressman Moolenaar, Congressman Jack Bergman and Congressman Paul Mitchell highlighted how vital the Soo Locks are for Michigan and the nation during a conversation with President Donald Trump. Shortly after the conversation, President Trump pledged his support for a new lock, and since then the Army Corps has taken a greater interest in the lock project. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation in the House last month. He made the following statement about today's vote in the Senate: "Today's vote shows there is strong bipartisan support for the Soo Locks. After more than a decade of inaction in Washington, the Soo Locks are receiving the attention they deserve and progress is being made. I will continue to work on this vital priority for Michigan as it takes the next steps." ###
10.10.2018	Today, The White House announced that President Donald Trump has signed into law the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, giving America’s veterans a cost of living increase. The increase would apply to wartime disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, clothing allowance, dependent and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses, and dependency compensation to children. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation in the House in May and made the following statement today: “This increase will help Michigan veterans who are disabled from a wartime injury and it’s just a small part of how we can thank them for their selfless service to our nation.”
10.05.2018	Today, the Department of Labor announced that the nationwide unemployment rate fell to 3.7 percent, the lowest rate since December of 1969. The department's September jobs report also showed continued strength in the growing U.S. economy as more than 134,000 new jobs were added during the month. Finally, the report concluded that wages have increased 2.8 percent over last year. Congressman John Moolenaar has voted for pro-growth policies in the House of Representatives, including an across-the-board tax cut that lowered tax rates for all Americans. That tax cut let Michigan workers keep more of their own money when it took effect earlier this year. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today's job report: "The economy is strong, with more jobs and higher wages. I have seen firsthand as local businesses are building new facilities and putting out 'Help Wanted' signs to hire more workers for good-paying jobs. I voted to let Michigan families and small businesses keep more of their own money and we are seeing good economic signs in mid and northern Michigan." ###
09.28.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act completing a week of action funding the fight against the opioid crisis and updating laws to empower those working to stop the epidemic. The legislation is a major bipartisan agreement borne out of the House’s work in June and the Senate’s work in September to pass a vital response to the crisis. Congressman John Moolenaar has met with families affected by the epidemic and held roundtables with community leaders in health care, law enforcement and local government to hear directly from them. Most recently, he visited the Lion’s Den in Roscommon and learned more about the work done there to help people recover from substance abuse and addiction. On Wednesday, Congressman Moolenaar voted for legislation funding the Department of Health and Human Services, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control with the resources they need to help lead federal efforts against opioid abuse. That legislation was signed into law by President Trump this afternoon. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act today and made the following statement: “I am working with families and community leaders to stop the opioid crisis. Today's legislation is a strong follow-up to my work on the Appropriations Committee to fund research of pain relief alternatives and provide grants to Michigan communities. Today's urgently needed reforms in the SUPPORT Act will empower people on the frontlines of the epidemic with more resources to prevent opioid abuse, treat those in need of help, stop dangerous drugs like fentanyl, and save lives." More on the Legislation A 26-page summary of the legislation is available here. Major changes in the legislation include: New Research: The legislation provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. Jessie’s Law: The legislation will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. Safe Disposal of Unused Medications: The legislation will help reduce the number of unused controlled substances at risk of diversion or misuse by allowing hospice employees to safely dispose of these medications on site after the death of a patient. Stopping Fentanyl: The legislation authorizes grants to state and local agencies to improve coordination between public health laboratories and laboratories operated by law enforcement to improve detection of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. ###
09.28.2018	This afternoon, Congressman Mike Bishop, who represents Ingham County, and Congressman John Moolenaar, who represents Clinton and Shiawassee counties, confirmed that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has extended direct flight service between Capital Region International Airport (LAN) and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) through October of 2023. This route has been serviced by American Airlines for the last two years, following Sun Country Airlines’ withdraw from this route in 2015. Reacting to this news, Congressman Bishop said: “After Sun Country announced they were cancelling service between our state and our nation’s capital, I worked diligently with the FAA and the Department of Transportation to ensure this service would continue. We had an outpouring of support from the community, with more than 1,200 people signing a petition to keep this direct flight service. I’m happy to see American’s commitment to our region and I’m very excited that the FAA has guaranteed this service for the next 5 years.” Congressman Moolenaar said: "Direct flights to Lansing support jobs and the economy here in mid Michigan, with millions of dollars in economic activity. There was terrific support in the community for extending this service and this new extension from the FAA will give residents more flexibility if they want to visit our nation's capital." ###
09.27.2018	Today, the House passed legislation funding LIHEAP. The legislation includes funding of the department’s general operations and $3.69 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) that helps thousands of low-income residents afford energy for their homes. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “LIHEAP is a historically successful program that helps Michigan residents in need of assistance with their energy bills. Today’s legislation ensures LIHEAP will be funded to help residents heat their homes, cook their food, and have warm water this winter.” ###
09.26.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation funding the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Disease Control, and the National Institutes of Health for next year. The legislation will boost public health and commit more funding to researching cures for some of the critical diseases that are hurting Americans. The legislation has more than $39 billion for the National Institutes of Health, including more than $2 billion for Alzheimer’s research. It also includes more than $6 billion for federal opioid abuse prevention efforts with $1.5 billion marked for grants that will go to states. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Human Services, Education and Labor where the legislation originated. He voted for the bill and made the following statement on today’s legislation: “Last week, I met with constituents across the district who are on the front lines of the opioid crisis. This legislation is crucial to supporting efforts in mid and northern Michigan that will fight the epidemic. It will enable first responders, health care professionals and treatment experts to do more to help men and women avoid substance abuse and overcome addiction. “Today’s legislation will also help our country find cures for cancer and Alzheimer’s. These diseases rob us of our loved ones and we must continue research that will bring us closer to finding life-saving treatments.”
09.26.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation funding the military for next year. The legislation includes the largest pay raise in nine years for America’s men and women in uniform and it builds off of the increase passed last year. The bill will also provide the military with the resources it needs to support America’s allies and to defeat enemies on the battlefield. It includes funding for new ships, submarines, aircraft, and tanks. The legislation originated in the House Appropriations Committee and more information on the legislation is available here. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. He voted for the bill and made the following statement: “I voted to give our brave men and women in uniform the largest pay raise in nine years because they put their lives on the line to keep our country safe. It is a strong follow-up to the legislation that was signed into law earlier this month to provide for our veterans with record-funding at the VA and more support for VA Choice. Our servicemembers and veterans deserve our support for the sacrifices they make and this legislation will help them and their families while keeping our country safe.” ###
09.26.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar honored Jan Lampman, executive director of the Arc of Midland as this year’s recipient of the Angels in Adoption Award for the Fourth District. This year marks the 20th year the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute has presented the award as a way to honor Americans from each congressional district who have done outstanding work helping children and adoptive parents. As executive director of the Arc of Midland, Lampman has worked with the court system in Midland County to assist children under the care of the court, especially those who have been removed from homes where they were neglected or abused. "Jan has done terrific work on behalf of children, both at home, and through her efforts at the Arc. Under her leadership, the Arc is a safe and loving place that meets the needs of the community and helps some of the most vulnerable residents. In her own life, Jan took on the challenge of personally becoming the guardian for an individual with an impairment and in need of extra care as he became a young adult. Her work has made our region a better place,” said Congressman Moolenaar. “I am deeply honored to receive this award and I am thankful for the great work of my team at the Arc. It is a joy for all of us there to help those in our community who just need a little extra support to flourish and grow into amazing people. I have enjoyed my experience in Washington D.C. and I thank Congressman Moolenaar for his support of pro-adoption policies that help families,” said Lampman. Congressman John Moolenaar meets with Jan Lampman, executive director of the Arc of Midland, at his office in Washington D.C. on September 26. Lampman was honored by Moolenaar as this year's Angel in Adoption for the Fourth Congressional District. ###
09.19.2018	The office of Congressman John Moolenaar is accepting applications from high school seniors for nominations to the U.S. military service academies. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY. Details about the application process are online at https://moolenaar.house.gov/. Applications should be submitted to Congressman Moolenaar's office by postal mail: Congressman John Moolenaar 200 East Main Street Suite 230 Midland, MI 48640 The deadline for applications is November 9. Questions can be directed to the office in Midland at 989-631-2552. ###
09.14.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar invites students in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District to enter the 2018 Congressional App Challenge. The contest is open to all K-12 students who can compete individually or in teams of up to four people. The winning individual or team from the Fourth District will have their app displayed in the U.S. Capitol. They will also have the option to attend an event in Washington D.C. where they will showcase their app alongside other winning students from across the United States. Entries must be submitted on the Congressional App Challenge website. Rules and a checklist for submissions are online at www.congressionalappchallenge.us. The deadline for entry is Noon on October 15. In 2016, the App Challenge was won by Joshua Jackson of Cadillac, and in 2017, it was won by a team comprised of Gerard Bringard, Emma Jamrog, Preston Millward and Gwynne Ozkan, all of Midland. Additional questions about the App Challenge can be directed to Congressman Moolenaar’s Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-3561. The Fourth Congressional District is made up of 15 counties: Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, as well as parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties. ###
09.13.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation sponsored by Congressman John Moolenaar renaming the post office in Beaverton after hometown hero, the late Colonel Alfred Asch. The legislation passed unanimously. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: "I am grateful for the support of the House of Representatives in honoring the late Colonel Alfred Asch for his contributions to our country and the Beaverton community. He realized his childhood dream of flying, and during World War II he bravely flew missions to liberate Europe, earning numerous decorations. As service to his country took him away from home, he never forgot where he was from. He created a scholarship for Gladwin County students at CMU, and wrote memoirs about his life in northern Michigan, the proceeds of which were donated to the Beaverton Activity Center. Colonel Asch is a hero and I am glad we're one step closer to honoring his life of service." For more background on the late Colonel Asch, and to read a statement on the legislation from his sons, please see "Colonel Alfred Asch Honored With Legislation Renaming the Beaverton Post Office
09.13.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan agreement that was introduced on Monday providing funding for America's water infrastructure. The legislation now goes to the Senate. For Michigan, the legislation includes the announced authorization of a new, second lock at the Soo Locks that can handle Great Lakes freighters. The legislation authorizes funding the Army Corps of Engineers estimate of $922 million for the construction of a new lock. Congressman John Moolenaar is a longtime supporter of building a new, second Lock. In April, he highlighted how vital it is for Michigan and the nation during a conversation with President Donald Trump, and Congressman Jack Bergman and Congressman Paul Mitchell. Shortly after the conversation, President Trump pledged his support for a new lock, and since then the Army Corps has taken a greater interest in the lock project. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Today's legislation makes it crystal clear: President Trump, Republicans, and Democrats support a new lock in the Soo. After 50 years of harsh winters and extraordinary maintenance, we need to build a second lock to be ready in case the one lock we have fails. We cannot afford a disruption of the Great Lakes shipping that is crucial to American manufacturing jobs and the products enjoyed by millions of Americans. I will be working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to fund this vital construction for Michigan and the country." ###
09.13.2018	Today, major bipartisan agreement broke out in Washington as Republicans and Democrats approved legislation agreed to by leaders in the House and Senate providing annual funding for the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The vote was 377-20. The legislation provides these departments with funding for the federal budget year that begins on October 1 and runs through September 30, 2019. The Senate passed the legislation last night on a 92-5 vote. With House passage today, it now goes to the president and The White House has already signaled its support for the legislation. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which wrote the legislation. He supported this legislation through his work on the committee and he voted for it again today. He made the following statement: "I have worked to make sure Michigan's priorities for our veterans and the Great Lakes receive the federal funding they need. This legislation includes more support for veterans in rural communities and helps all veterans who might be at risk from the opioid crisis. Recent reforms at the VA have led to increased accountability and the funding passed today will do more to help our veterans receive the care they deserve for serving our country. "Today's legislation also has vital funding for harbor maintenance and a stronger focus on the urgent need to stop Asian carp. This will help protect the Great Lakes so Michigan residents can enjoy boating, fishing and recreation for years to come. " Included in the Legislation Support for Veterans The legislation has more than $72 billion for medical care at the VA, including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $206 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $400 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives. Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund The legislation also approves $1.6 billion from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to be used by the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge harbors and maintain breakwalls in Michigan and across the country. Stopping Invasive Species It also instructs the Army Corps of Engineers to present quarterly briefings to Congress on efforts to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam near Chicago. Department of Energy Research at Michigan State The legislation includes $75 million in federal funding for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University. ###
09.11.2018	Yesterday, leaders in the House and Senate released the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, a bipartisan bill that will fund America’s water resources and infrastructure. The legislation authorizes the construction of a second 1,200-foot lock at the Soo Locks, a key priority for Michigan. Inclusion of the funding authorization follows an Army Corps report in June that urged the building of a second lock because of the Soo Locks' strategic value and vital importance to America’s economy and national security. The authorized funding of a new Soo Lock has the support of President Donald Trump, who backed the project during a visit to Michigan in April, after meeting with Michigan congressmen Jack Bergman, Paul Mitchell and John Moolenaar during a visit to Michigan in April. Congressman Bergman, whose district includes the Soo Locks, welcomed the legislation: “Each additional year we depend on the 50-year old Poe Lock, we risk detrimental effects to our economy. Since taking office I've worked with my colleagues in the House, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) leadership, and the Trump Administration to highlight the dangers to our economy and national security that an unexpected closure would have on our nation. The authorization included in this water infrastructure package is another major step forward in our goal to build a new Lock. As the process continues, I will work with my colleagues to ensure this project remains a priority and receives the necessary funding.” Congressman Mitchell, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, worked to include the project in the water resources legislation and made the following statement: “The authorization for the construction of a second 1,200 foot lock at the Soo Locks is a huge step forward on a critical project. I’m proud that through teamwork and persistence, we are finally seeing movement forward on this essential project to upgrade the locks. Any failure at the Soo Locks would have a devastating ripple effect on our nation’s economy and national security. I will continue to do anything and everything possible working with my colleagues, the administration, and the Army Corps of Engineers to move this project towards groundbreaking and completion to protect our economy and our nation.” Congressman Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has successfully advanced Michigan's priorities on the committee. He is a long-time advocate of building a second Soo Lock and he will work to fund its construction through his work on the committee. He made the following statement: "This authorization is a huge step forward for building a new Soo Lock and many of us have been working together in Congress to make this happen. Through my meetings with Army Corps officials, I know they are ready to start on this important infrastructure project. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will be working to advance this vital priority for our state and fighting to ensure it receives the funding it needs to move forward."
09.10.2018	Today, the United States Department of Agriculture's Office of Rural Development announced a $150,000 grant to Missaukee County to improve the county's 9-1-1 dispatch system. In its release, the USDA noted Missaukee County "participates in the Traverse Narcotics Team, a multi-jurisdictional drug task force consisting of law enforcement agencies from six other counties. The new dispatch system will improve communications to help combat the opioid crisis in the region." Congressman John Moolenaar welcomed the news and made the following statement: "This grant will go directly to the first responders on the front lines of the opioid crisis in northern Michigan. In an emergency, every second is valuable, and this improvement in 9-1-1 services will help save lives."
09.06.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on the passing of Michigan business leader and philanthropist Richard DeVos: “Richard DeVos lived the American Dream. He built a business with his best friend and made products enjoyed by millions of people around the world. Driven by his strong faith in God, Richard used his success to make his community a better place, supporting education, medicine and the arts. He leaves behind an incredible legacy and he will be missed.”
08.26.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: "John McCain was an American hero. As a nation, we can never repay him for the sacrifices he made as a prisoner of war. He was a dedicated public servant and in the Senate he was a champion for the brave men and women of our military. He was also a fierce defender of our country's indispensable role in the world and he worked tirelessly to advance human rights and liberty for all people. He served our country with honor and distinction. My prayers are with his friends and family as the nation joins them in mourning the loss of a patriot." ###
08.15.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar invites students in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District to enter the 2018 Congressional App Challenge. The contest is open to all K-12 students who can compete individually or in teams of up to four people. The winning individual or team from the Fourth District will have their app displayed in the U.S. Capitol. They will also have the option to attend an event in Washington D.C. where they will showcase their app alongside other winning students from across the United States. Entries must be submitted on the Congressional App Challenge website. Rules and a checklist for submissions are online at www.congressionalappchallenge.us. The deadline for entry is Noon on October 15. In 2016, the App Challenge was won by Joshua Jackson of Cadillac, and in 2017, it was won by a team comprised of Gerard Bringard, Emma Jamrog, Preston Millward and Gwynne Ozkan, all of Midland. Additional questions about the App Challenge can be directed to Congressman Moolenaar’s Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-3561. The Fourth Congressional District is made up of 15 counties: Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, as well as parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties. ###
08.09.2018	Today, Dairy Farmers of America, Glanbia PLC, and Select Milk announced plans to invest $510 million to build a new 146-acre dairy processing facility in St. Johns. The new facility is expected to create 259 new jobs. Congressman John Moolenaar is a supporter of Michigan agriculture and represents St. Johns in Congress. He made the following statement on today’s news: “The new facility in St. Johns is contributing to a growing economy and it will bring good-paying jobs right here to mid-Michigan. It will also benefit the hardworking milk producers in our state who get up early every morning to do their work and feed millions of people. This is an outstanding decision by the Dairy Farmers of America." ###
08.03.2018	Today, Central Michigan University named Dr. Robert Davies as its 15th president, succeeding the recently retired George Ross. Congressman John Moolenaar's district includes CMU and he has worked with the university on key issues including funding for Great Lakes research and helping secure federal support for the new MIDocs program that CMU is spearheading to bring more doctors to underserved rural communities. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: "Congratulations to Dr. Davies. I have partnered with CMU on vital efforts to protect the Great Lakes and to bring doctors to underserved rural communities. I look forward to working with Dr. Davies on those initiatives and more so CMU will continue to do vital research while teaching a new generation of students the knowledge they need for the future."
07.31.2018	Today, President Donald Trump signed into law The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The new law supports career and technical education opportunities by giving states and local communities more flexibility in designing their career education programs. This allows them to more closely align the goals of their programs with the job demands of the local economy. The legislation also allows states to designate 15 percent of their funds for rural communities. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation in the House of Representatives and made the following statement: “The new law signed by President Trump today will help states and local communities prepare students for good-paying jobs that are available right now, especially in the skilled trades. With the strong national economy, there are more job openings than people looking to fill them. I have met with students at community colleges and career centers in mid and northern Michigan and I know they are working hard to fill those jobs and earn higher wages. Their teachers are also doing tremendous work and this legislation will give them more flexibility to use the funding they receive to meet the needs of our communities.”
07.25.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar offered an amendment expressing concern about the detention of Chaldean Christians by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Congressman Moolenaar spoke on his amendment and it was approved by the House Appropriations Committee during today's debate on legislation funding the Department of Homeland Security. The amendment reads as follows: "The Committee notes with concern the detention of members of religious minorities from Iraq, particularly the Iraqi Chaldean Christian community, by Immigration and Customs Enforcement for possible deportation. Congress and the Department of State have recognized that a genocide has been committed against Chaldeans and other religious minorities in Iraq. The Committee recommends that ICE refrain from prioritizing the deportation of people who will be subject to violent persecution and death in their countries of origin." Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on his amendment: "The State Department has concluded that religious minorities in Iraq, including Chaldean Christians, face a genocide in that country. We have a terrific Chaldean community in Michigan. I hope ICE will not deport Chaldeans in the United States to a country where they will face violent persecution for their faith." ###
07.25.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar spoke in support of an amendment on H2-B Visas during the House Appropriations Committee's debate on legislation funding the Department of Homeland Security. With Congressman Moolenaar's support, the bipartisan amendment offered by Congressmen Andy Harris of Maryland and Henry Cuellar of Texas, was passed by the Committee and added to the bill. The amendment allows workers who have used H2-B visas in the past two years to do so again next year without counting against the national cap on H2-B visas. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the amendment: "Millions of people come to Michigan each summer to enjoy boating, fishing, and tourism. To meet the spike in demand some businesses need seasonal workers. In fact, some businesses have delayed expansion and only opened partially because they are unable to hire the workers they need. The amendment I supported helps businesses hire more workers to meet the demands of their customers." ###
07.24.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Native American Health Savings Improvement Act (H.R. 1476) introduced by Congressman John Moolenaar. The legislation improves access to federal Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) for Native Americans who receive services at Indian Health Service (IHS) facilities. Right now, Native Americans must wait three months after receiving care at an Indian Health Service facility before they can make a contribution to their HSAs again. The Native American Health Savings Improvement Act eliminates that restriction and allows Native Americans to make contributions to their HSAs whenever they want. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the passage of his legislation: "Health Savings Accounts help millions of Americans save money to pay for their health care, but an unfair law blocks Native Americans from paying into their HSAs for three months after they receive care from the Indian Health Service. My bill ends this unfairness, helping Native Americans, including the Saginaw Chippewas in my district. They will no longer have to wait three months to save money for their health care. I thank my colleagues for their support of this legislation and I hope the Senate will take it up soon." ###
07.19.2018	Today, the House of Representatives, with the strong support of Congressman John Moolenaar, passed funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Congressman Moolenaar advocated for the funding with his work on the House Appropriations Committee and it was included in the legislation that passed the Committee last month. The GLRI has worked in partnership with conservation efforts including groups like Ducks Unlimited. It also funds researchers at Central Michigan University who have done critical work assessing the health of 10,000 miles of wetlands that support the Great Lakes ecosystem. The university has been doing research funded by GLRI since 2010. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the passage of today's legislation: "Protection for the Great Lakes is a top priority for Michigan residents and as our state's only member of the House Appropriations Committee I successfully worked to make sure it was included in today's legislation. The GLRI benefits our state and does vital work to help ensure Michigan families will be able to enjoy the Great Lakes this summer and for years to come."
07.18.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed a resolution affirming its support for the men and women who work at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In recent weeks, the agency and its employees have faced increased protests and threats for their work enforcing the country’s laws. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the resolution and made the following statement: “ICE has done important work on the opioid crisis, seizing thousands of pounds of fentanyl and heroin. It has arrested nearly 2,000 human traffickers, stopping those who victimize women and children in modern-day slavery. ICE agents have also arrested thousands of offenders who have committed murder and sexual assault. I am proud to support the men and women of ICE as they face danger to stop criminals and keep our country safe.” Additional statistics on ICE are below. In 2017, ICE arrested more than 127,000 aliens with criminal convictions or charges (76,000 dangerous drug offenses, 48,000 assault offenses, 11,000 weapons offenses, 5,000 sexual assault offenses, 2,000 kidnapping offenses, and 1,800 homicide offenses) It made 4,818 gang-related arrests It seized more than 980,000 pounds of narcotics It seized 2,370 pounds of fentanyl and 6,967 pounds of heroin In 2016, ICE arrested nearly 2,000 human traffickers. ###
07.18.2018	The House of Representatives has passed a bipartisan amendment by Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and John Moolenaar (MI-4) that supports the Great Lakes Science Center as a part of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Fisheries Program. The amendment was added to a federal government funding bill for the Department of the Interior. “The Great Lakes are a vital part of Michigan’s outdoor heritage and this funding will support smart conservation of our fisheries so Michiganders can enjoy fishing on the Great Lakes for years to come,” said Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “We need more research to protect important ecosystems, like the Great Lakes, from invasive species and better understand how to conserve and protect important fishery resources,” said Dingell. “It is critical we maintain funding to continue USGS research and to enhance exploration in cutting-edge technologies to support fisheries management, native preyfish restoration, and invasive species control, as is being done at the Great Lakes Science Center.” Today, the whole House is continuing work on additional amendments to the Department of Interior funding bill. This legislation was previously passed by the House Appropriations Committee on June 6 and it includes full funding - $300 million - for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The final version of the bill will be voted on later this week. ###
07.17.2018	Today, the legislation renaming the Beaverton Post Office in honor Colonel Alfred Asch moved one step closer to the finish line today. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed legislation introduced by Congressman John Moolenaar that will rename the local post office after the hometown hero. The next step is passage by the entire House of Representatives on a date that is to be determined. For more information on Colonel Asch and this legislation please see the previous press release, below, from June 26 when the legislation was first introduced. Colonel Alfred Asch Honored With Legislation Renaming the Beaverton Post Office Congressman John Moolenaar has introduced legislation to rename the United States Post Office in Beaverton, Michigan after the late Colonel Alfred Asch. Asch grew up in Beaverton and served in the U.S. Army in World War II. He joined the Army Air Corps in 1941, flying two tours with the 93rd Bomb Group (28 missions) and 455th Bomb Group (47 missions) during World War II. Colonel Asch served through 1968, earning numerous decorations, including the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with the Oak Leaf Cluster, the Purple Heart and two unit citations for the 93rd presented by King George II. After retiring, Colonel Asch became a systems engineer with the Mitre Corporation where he spent 16 years developing automation for the air traffic control system of the Federal Aviation Administration. In 2013, he published his memoir, The Whole Nine Yards, donating proceeds to the Beaverton Activities Center in his hometown. Previous publications included "The Story of the 455th" and the book of remembrance for the B-24 Monument dedication at the United States Air Force Academy. Congressman Moolenaar, when he was a state senator, paid tribute to the late colonel in 2014 at the opening of the new Beaverton Activities Center, where a plaque honoring Asch is on display. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the legislation: “Colonel Alfred Asch was a patriot who dedicated his life to serving the United States and defending the American people. Through his love of flying he helped liberate Europe and he contributed to civilian aviation at home. He is a proud son of Beaverton and an example of service to us all. “When Colonel Asch served our country during World War II his letters home to his wife Naomi were a cherished lifeline for the couple, so it is my privilege to introduce legislation to honor his legacy and put his name on his hometown post office.” David and Peter Asch, Colonel Asch’s sons, also made a statement supporting the legislation: "Dad truly loved his hometown of Beaverton, Michigan and its people. It is where he laid his life's foundation. Growing up in Beaverton he faced life's early challenges, overcame them and went on to take on the world. On his behalf and on behalf of the Asch family and citizens of Beaverton, we are thankful and proud to receive this high honor."
07.17.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar testified to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) about the damaging effects of federal tariffs on newsprint that is imported from Canada. The ITC is an independent federal agency that looks into foreign imports and their impact on domestic industries in the United States. The tariffs were levied earlier this year by the Commerce Department, affecting hundreds of Michigan companies and more than 24,000 residents. Congressman Moolenaar has heard from publishers in his district about the negative effects tariffs will have on their businesses, including higher costs, fewer jobs, and fewer pages in their local newspapers. Today, he made sure these concerns were heard in Washington and urged the ITC to end the tariffs on newsprint. Congressman Moolenaar's testimony to the ITC is below. Testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commissionby Congressman John MoolenaarJuly 17, 2018Washington D.C.As Prepared for Delivery Good morning Mr. Chairman, commissioners, Thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to speak about the impact of federal tariffs on uncoated groundwood paper, commonly known as newsprint, that is imported from Canada. My district covers 15 counties in mid and northern Michigan and for many residents the daily or weekly paper is a source of important news and information. The papers employ journalists, editors and staff who work hard to present information relevant to their communities. In many cases, like Greenville, Owosso, Houghton Lake, and Gratiot County, these newspapers and their publishers are part of the American Dream, passed down from generation-to-generation. In these communities, there are no big city papers to bring residents their community news. There is no alternative for coverage of high school sports, the township council meeting, or the special tributes for graduations and anniversaries. These tariffs, if they continue, will do lasting damage to these important community institutions. In Greenville, they estimate that the annual costs of the tariffs will be more than $250,000, simply too much for a community publisher to absorb. In my hometown of Midland, the editor is worried about what the tariffs will mean for seniors in the community. He wrote to my office: “Most print product readers tend to be loyal, aging customers who have nowhere else to turn for their connection to the community. We know this because our readers tell us this — especially on days when their home delivery is inadvertently missed.” In Owosso, the Argus Press also prints the newspapers of 70 high schools. If these tariffs go into effect, the costs will be too great for some high school papers to continue. Students will lose chances to learn about writing, journalism, and the First Amendment. We should be creating more opportunities for these important civic lessons and all we have to do is end this unnecessary and burdensome government regulation. These tariffs are affecting all Americans. They are hurting business owners, journalists, the young, and the old. The publishers I have heard from say they are already reducing the number of pages they print in each edition. That means less space for the local news that highlights the people and events in their communities. After that, the publishers say they will have to reduce staff – maybe 5 or 10 percent – depending on the number of workers they have. Jobs will be lost because of these tariffs while only one company in the entire country will gain. These tariffs will do tremendous damage to community newspapers in the small towns in the heartland of our country. They will create job losses, reduce the amount of news covered in our communities, and hurt local hardworking businesses that have been passed down for generations as part of the American Dream. Finally, I want to close by mentioning that earlier this month, the Commerce Department lost its case when trying to defend its duties on imports of glossy paper. It was a long, two-year legal fight that began during the Obama Administration and we should not repeat the failed mistakes of the past. Whether it is a glossy magazine or the local paper, there is special importance to seeing something in print. I urge you to end the unfair and harsh burden of the tariffs on newsprint so local publishers and hardworking journalists can continue to do business and cover our communities. Thank you. ###
07.12.2018	Last night, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health for the 2019 federal budget year that begins on October 1. The legislation increases funding for the fight against cancer, Alzheimer’s and the opioid crisis. Specifically, it provides $38.3 billion in funding for NIH, an increase of $1.25 billion over last year. This includes $2.25 billion for Alzheimer’s research and $400 million for cancer moonshot research. The legislation also expands NIH research related to opioids and pain management in order to promote the development of treatments that do not cause addiction. The legislation includes $1 billion for state opioid response grants from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Earlier this year, SAMHSA granted $16 million to the State of Michigan through this program. Congressman John Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “I voted for this legislation because the funding will go to those on the frontlines of the opioid epidemic and provide help to those who need it most. I also strongly support pioneering research to develop new treatments that will help patients recover without opioids.” “This legislation also commits more funding for Alzheimer’s research and the efforts to cure cancer. These goals may seem difficult now but the research being funded today will bring us closer to finding a cure that will save millions of lives.” Additional Appropriations Information The House Appropriations Committee has now passed eleven of the twelve bills it works on annually to fund the departments and agencies of the federal government in each federal budget year. Three of those bills have been passed by the whole House. Congressman Moolenaar has successfully worked to ensure Michigan's priorities are funded in legislation passed by the committee. This includes: $75 million for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam Research at Michigan State University. $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. $447 million for opioid overdose reversal drugs and prescription drug monitoring. $620 million in loans and grants for expanding rural broadband access. $1 billion for state opioid response grants from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. $1.6 billion for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. $2 billion for rural development grants, including those focused on rural water and waste program loans. $3.1 billion for agriculture research that helps stop crop diseases including funding for the sugar beet and bean research facility at MSU. $6.9 billion in loans for rural electric service and telephone lines. $38.3 billion in funding for NIH, including $2.25 billion for Alzheimer’s research, $400 million for cancer moonshot research, and $130 million for a universal flu vaccine. $46 billion for the Highway Trust Fund. $71 billion for VA medical care including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $196 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $387 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives. ###
07.09.2018	Today, President Donald Trump announced the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement: “Judge Brett Kavanaugh has a long record of serving our judicial system. The Senate should review his qualifications and determine if he will uphold the Constitution and be a rule of law justice who is right for this seat on the Supreme Court. It is the Senate's responsibility to advice and consent on this nomination. It should do its duty and also consider the more than 500 bills passed by the House that still await a Senate vote." ###
06.29.2018	Today, the Army Corps of Engineers sent to Congress its Soo Lock Economic Validation Report on the necessity of building a second freighter-sized lock to serve the Great Lakes alongside the 49-year old Poe Lock in Sault Ste. Marie. The conclusions in the report are similar to a 2015 report by the Department of Homeland Security that urged the building of a second lock because of the Soo Locks' strategic value and vital importance to America’s economy and national security. Before today, the Army Corps’ most recent report on the Soo Locks was done in 2005. That report failed to account for the costly alternatives that would need to be used if the Locks had an unexpected shutdown. That report also did not account for the added value of the commodities that move through the Locks to the supply chains of the American economy. The Army Corps was instructed to account for the added value of commodities after Congressman John Moolenaar included it in legislation passed last year. In 2005, the Army Corps’ report found that the benefit-to-cost ratio of building a new Lock was 0.73. In today’s report, the Army Corps concludes that the benefit-to-cost ratio is 2.42. A ratio over 1.00 is needed to make a project a priority for the Army Corps. Additionally, the Army Corps estimates the cost of the building the new Lock at $922 million over ten years. This is an increase over previous estimates done in 1986 and 2005. Congressman Moolenaar, a long-time advocate of building a new second freighter-sized lock, along with Congressmen Jack Bergman and Paul Mitchell, advocated for the construction when they met with President Trump in Michigan on April 28. Following the discussion, the president publicly supported the Soo Locks project. Congressman Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which funds Army Corps projects. He welcomed the new report and made the following statement: "Today's report from the Army Corps shows how vital the Soo Locks are to our country's economy and national security. Everyone in Michigan, along with President Trump, knows we need a new, second lock to support the current lock so freighters will always be able to transit the Great Lakes and I will be working in Congress to secure funding for this project. After years of studies and reports, today's report is a greenlight for the Army Corps. It's time to get this done and improve our country's aging infrastructure." ###
06.29.2018	The office of Congressman John Moolenaar is currently accepting applications for congressional internships in his Washington, D.C. office for Fall 2018. The internship program is open to college students and recent graduates who are interested in learning more about our country’s legislative process and the day-to-day operations of a congressional office. Intern responsibilities include conducting tours of the U.S. Capitol, researching federal legislation and assisting legislative staff. Interns will also have the opportunity to attend legislative briefings and congressional hearings on Capitol Hill. Applicants are asked to provide a cover letter, resume and any specific legislative issues or areas of interest. Applications should be submitted by the close of business on Friday, July 20. College credits are available per school requirements. For more information and to apply for an internship, visit: https://moolenaar.house.gov/internships ###
06.28.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which funds the Department of Defense for the 2019 fiscal year that begins on October 1, 2018. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Today's legislation gives our men and women in uniform a well-deserved pay raise, provides for their families, and gives them the resources they need to keep our country safe. Over the last few years, the military has had to overcome funding disruptions and training accidents that have hurt its ability to defend our country. This legislation puts our troops first, with funding to upgrade equipment and improve readiness, so they can prepare more safely and win on the battlefield." Additional Details Additional details on the legislation from the House Appropriations Committee are below. Military Personnel and Pay – The legislation includes $144 billion to provide for 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops. The bill fully funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for the military. Operation and Maintenance – Included in the legislation is $245.9 billion for operation and maintenance. This funding supports key readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, including flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations. This funding will help rebuild our forces to ensure our troops have the training and equipment they need. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains a total of $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. Specifically, the bill provides $364 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. ###
06.28.2018	In the past week, the House of Representatives considered two different immigration reform bills that would secure America's borders and improve the American immigration system. Congressman Moolenaar voted for both bills. He made the following statement on today's legislative action: "This month in Washington we have been working on legislation to improve and fix our broken immigration system including legislation that secures our borders and keeps families together. We need to help those who come to our country legally and those who have come through no fault of their own. We should also increase penalties for those who repeatedly enter the country illegally and that is why I have supported past efforts to pass Kate’s Law. Finally, we need to make vital reforms that will help Michigan farmers hire the workers they need to have a successful year. We were not able to pass legislation today but I will continue to work for a solution that upholds our American values, enforces our laws, and fixes problems with the immigration system." Additional details on the immigration legislation considered this month is available at the links below:The Securing America's Future ActThe Border Security and Immigration Reform Act ###
06.27.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar welcomes Congressional Art Competition Winner, Genesia Thompson (center), and her father Cornelius Thompson (left), to the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. This picture is on the Speaker's Balcony on the West Front of the Capitol, facing the National Mall and the Washington Monument. Today, Congressman John Moolenaar welcomed Genesia Thompson, the Congressional Art Competition Winner for Michigan's Fourth Congressional District to the Capitol. Genesia is a student at H.H. Dow High School and she was accompanied by her father, Cornelius Thompson. Genesia won the Congressional Art Competition for the Fourth District with her winning watercolor painting, "October," named after Genesia's grandmother's month of birth. The painting features marigolds, the birth flower of October, and a bee. The painting will be on display in the Capitol for a year. Congressman John Moolenaar congratulates Genesia Thompson on winning the Congressional Art Competition for Michigan's Fourth Congressional District during a presentation at the Midland Center for the Arts on May 2, 2017. Thompson's winning piece, "October," is in the center. It features marigolds and a bee. ###
06.26.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar has introduced legislation to rename the United States Post Office in Beaverton, Michigan after the late Colonel Alfred Asch. Asch grew up in Beaverton and served in the U.S. Army in World War II. He joined the Army Air Corps in 1941, flying two tours with the 93rd Bomb Group (28 missions) and 455th Bomb Group (47 missions) during World War II. Colonel Asch served through 1968, earning numerous decorations, including the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with the Oak Leaf Cluster, the Purple Heart and two unit citations for the 93rd presented by King George II. After retiring, Colonel Asch became a systems engineer with the Mitre Corporation where he spent 16 years developing automation for the air traffic control system of the Federal Aviation Administration. In 2013, he published his memoir, The Whole Nine Yards, donating proceeds to the Beaverton Activities Center in his hometown. Previous publications included "The Story of the 455th" and the book of remembrance for the B-24 Monument dedication at the United States Air Force Academy. Congressman Moolenaar, when he was a state senator, paid tribute to the late colonel in 2014 at the opening of the new Beaverton Activities Center, where a plaque honoring Asch is on display. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the legislation: “Colonel Alfred Asch was a patriot who dedicated his life to serving the United States and defending the American people. Through his love of flying he helped liberate Europe and he contributed to civilian aviation at home. He is a proud son of Beaverton and an example of service to us all. “When Colonel Asch served our country during World War II his letters home to his wife Naomi were a cherished lifeline for the couple, so it is my privilege to introduce legislation to honor his legacy and put his name on his hometown post office.” David and Peter Asch, Colonel Asch’s sons, also made a statement supporting the legislation: "Dad truly loved his hometown of Beaverton, Michigan and its people. It is where he laid his life's foundation. Growing up in Beaverton he faced life's early challenges, overcame them and went on to take on the world. On his behalf and on behalf of the Asch family and citizens of Beaverton, we are thankful and proud to receive this high honor." ###
06.22.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act of 2018 to help fight the country's opioid crisis. The vote was 396-14. It requires state Medicaid programs to have safety procedures in place for opioid refills and the monitoring of opioid prescriptions and other drugs. It also spurs the development of nonopioid drugs that will help patients treat pain and requires a review of opioid prescriptions for those who become new patients under Medicare. Finally, the legislation authorizes grants to state and local agencies so they can establish labs to detect fentanyl and synthetic opioids. The legislation is part of the House's work in June passing more than 30 bills to fight the opioid epidemic. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for today's legislation and made the following statement: "In the past two weeks, the House has passed vital legislation to fight the opioid crisis in our country. From my meetings with patients, families, health care professionals, and community leaders I know they want this legislation and funding to help them recover from addiction and combat the epidemic in their towns. I urge the Senate to swiftly take up this legislation and help Michigan families who have been hurt by opioid addiction." ###
06.21.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the 2018 Farm Bill. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the Farm Bill and made the following statement on the legislation: “This Farm Bill is crucial for the 15,000 farmers in my district who grow the food Michiganders enjoy every day. It helps them plan for the future and do the incredibly difficult work of tilling the land and raising livestock. Agriculture is one of our state’s key industries and this legislation will help ensure that for years to come. “The legislation will also help residents in our communities by providing federal funding and grants for rural infrastructure and expanding rural broadband access. Our country has many economic needs and the Farm Bill will make sure rural communities receive infrastructure aid just like the suburbs and major cities. “Finally, I support the new work requirement for food stamps. With the economy doing well and unemployment under four percent, there are currently more job openings than there are job seekers. It’s never been a better time to find a job or to enroll in training to learn the skills needed for a good-paying job.” Additional Details Congress passes a Farm Bill every five years to help American farmers with certainty as they plan their operations for the years ahead. Today’s bill also provides significant support to America’s rural communities to meet the unique challenges they face. Beginning Farmers: The bill includes several provisions that will help new farmers begin operations. This will help recruit new farmers and allow them to establish themselves in an industry with prohibitive costs to entry. Crop Insurance: The legislation reauthorizes the crop insurance program helping mid and northern Michigan farmers plan for unforeseeable weather than can ruin a whole season of crops. Food Stamp Reform: The legislation makes reforms to the Department of Agriculture’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as food stamps. The legislation adds a work requirement for able-bodied adults between ages 18-59 to either hold a job for 20 hours a week or enroll in job training. Senior citizens, persons with disabilities and adults caring for children are exempt from the work requirement. A work requirement for food stamps enjoys broad support in the Fourth District. Infrastructure: The legislation authorizes billions in funding for rural infrastructure projects and also increases access to credit for rural communities to finance additional projects. This also includes $100 million to rebuild dams and flood protection infrastructure. Opioid Crisis: The legislation empowers the Secretary of Agriculture to prioritize rural community development projects that will spur access to telehealth services and build medical facilities. Rural Broadband: The legislation benefits rural communities with infrastructure initiatives and more than $582 million in yearly funding to improve rural Internet access. Further details on the legislation can be found at https://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill/. ###
06.15.2018	This week, the House of Representatives passed important legislation co-sponsored by Congressman John Moolenaar that will address America's opioid crisis. The legislation advanced as part of the House’s work this week passing more than 30 bills to respond to the epidemic. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the legislation he supported this week: “The opioid crisis has affected people across mid and northern Michigan. That’s why I supported legislation this week that advances medical research that will help patients recover without the addictive power of opioids. The legislation will also empower health professionals with the abilities they need to safely dispose of opioids and help at-risk patients. These solutions are patient-focused and will prevent opioid abuse in our communities.” Congressman Moolenaar is a co-sponsor of the following bills that passed this week. H.R. 5002 - The ACE Research Act: This legislation provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. The legislation passed unanimously on June 17. H.R. 5009 - Jessie’s Law: This legislation will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. The legislation passed unanimously on June 12. H.R. 5041 - Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act: This legislation will help reduce the number of unused controlled substances at risk of diversion or misuse by allowing hospice employees to safely dispose of these medications on site after the death of a patient. The legislation passed unanimously on June 12. Additionally, Congressman Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and this week the committee introduced legislation will fund efforts at the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health in the 2019 federal budget. The legislation will be considered by the committee next week. More information on this funding legislation is available here. ###
06.08.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation funding the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Energy and the Army Corps of Engineers for the federal budget in 2019. The legislation, previously passed by the House Appropriations Committee that Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of, has more than $71 billion for medical care at the VA, including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $196 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $387 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives. The legislation also approves $1.6 billion from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to be used by the Army Corps to dredge harbors and maintain breakwalls in Michigan and across the country. It also instructs the Army Corps to present quarterly briefings to Congress on efforts to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam near Chicago. Finally, the legislation includes funding for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University, meeting MSU’s request for $75 million in 2019. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “Michigan families love the Great Lakes. They want to preserve and protect them for future generations. This legislation will hold the Army Corps accountable in the fight against invasive species, help develop Michigan harbors, and allow Michigan residents to enjoy our rivers and lakes. “Our veterans will also benefit from this bill. Some veterans face challenges when they return to civilian life including mental health and the opioid crisis. This bill gives the VA more resources to help them receive the care they earned defending our county. “This legislation also helps bring jobs to mid-Michigan with funding for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University. FRIB is bringing talented workers and good-paying jobs to our region and its pioneering research will benefit all of us.” Additional Appropriations Information The House Appropriations Committee has now passed seven of the twelve bills it works on annually to fund the departments and agencies of the federal government in each federal budget year. Three of those bills have now been passed by the full House of Representatives and sent to the Senate. Congressman Moolenaar has successfully worked to ensure Michigan's priorities are funded in legislation passed by the committee. This includes: $75 million for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam Research at Michigan State University. $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. $447 million for opioid overdose reversal drugs and prescription drug monitoring. $620 million in loans and grants for expanding rural broadband access. $1.6 billion for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. $2 billion for rural development grants, including those focused on rural water and waste program loans. $3.1 billion for agriculture research that helps stop crop diseases including funding for the sugar beet and bean research facility at MSU. $6.9 billion in loans for rural electric service and telephone lines. $46 billion for the Highway Trust Fund. $71 billion for VA medical care including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $196 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $387 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives. ###
06.06.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for the 2019 federal budget year. The legislation fully funds the GLRI with $300 million. The funding is included in the overall bill, which also funds the Department of Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and a longtime supporter of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. He voted for the legislation today and made the following statement: "Summer has begun and millions of Michiganders are enjoying boating and fishing on the Great Lakes, so it is crucial to preserve and protect them for future generations. Funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative supports that goal and helps protect the Lakes from pollution and invasive species. I will continue to advocate for this funding and help it move forward in Congress." Additional Appropriations Information The House Appropriations Committee has now passed seven of the twelve bills it works on annually to fund the departments and agencies of the federal government in each federal budget year. Congressman Moolenaar has successfully worked to ensure Michigan's priorities are funded in legislation passed by the committee. This includes: $75 million for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam Research at Michigan State University. $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. $447 million for opioid overdose reversal drugs and prescription drug monitoring. $620 million in loans and grants for expanding rural broadband access. $1.6 billion for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. $2 billion for rural development grants, including those focused on rural water and waste program loans. $3.1 billion for agriculture research that helps stop crop diseases including funding for the sugar beet and bean research facility at MSU. $6.9 billion in loans for rural electric service and telephone lines. $46 billion for the Highway Trust Fund. $71 billion for VA medical care including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $196 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $387 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives.
06.05.2018	Today, the federal Department of Transportation announced $3.5 million in funding for MBS International Airport to rehabilitate the runway and reconstruct runway lighting. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on today's news: "MBS International Airport is vital to the Great Lakes Bay Region. This important funding will help the airport maintain its facilities and provide service for everyone in our region."
05.23.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the Department of Transportation and increasing funding for the Highway Trust Fund by a billion dollars to $46 billion. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Today's legislation bolsters the Highway Trust Fund with more money for federal roads and I will continue to advocate for additional funding to fix our country's most important infrastructure needs." Additional Appropriations Information The House Appropriations Committee has now passed six of the twelve bills it works on annually to fund the departments and agencies of the federal government in each federal budget year. During this process, Congressman Moolenaar has successfully worked to ensure Michigan's priorities are a part of the legislation passed by the committee. This includes: $75 million for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam Research at Michigan State University. $447 million for opioid overdose reversal drugs and prescription drug monitoring. $620 million in loans and grants for expanding rural broadband access. $1.6 billion for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. $2 billion for rural development grants, including those focused on rural water and waste program loans. $3.1 billion for agriculture research that helps stop crop diseases including funding for the sugar beet and bean research facility at MSU. $6.9 billion in loans for rural electric service and telephone lines. $46 billion for the Highway Trust Fund. $71 billion for VA medical care including $8.6 billion in mental health care services; $196 million in suicide prevention outreach activities; $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $387 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $270 million in rural health initiatives.
05.23.2018	Today, the United States Department of Agriculture's Office of Rural Development announced a $307,000 grant and $376,000 loan for the Village of Farwell. A copy of the USDA press release is attached. The funding will go toward helping Farwell maintain its municipal water infrastructure including the refurbishment of wellhouses and the iron removal plant, and help extend the watermain along Main Street. Congressman John Moolenaar has voted for legislation funding the Department of Agriculture and programs that support rural economic development. He made the following statement on today's announcement by USDA: "Congratulations to Farwell on receiving this funding to maintain and improve its water infrastructure. Rural development grants like this one meet crucial needs and benefit our communities in mid and northern Michigan."
05.21.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Veterans Opioid Abuse Prevention Act. The bipartisan legislation requires the VA to enter into an agreement with the national network of state-based monitoring programs to support the safe and effective prescription of controlled drugs to patients. This will help prevent the overprescription of medication to veterans. You can read more about the legislation here. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation and made the following statement: “The opioid crisis has impacted people from all walks of life, including our veterans as they seek treatment at the VA. Prescription drug monitoring at the VA will help prevent addiction and protect our veterans from opioid abuse.”
05.21.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, giving America’s veterans a cost of living increase. The increase would apply to wartime disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, clothing allowance, dependent and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses, and dependency compensation to children. The increase would go into effect on December 1, 2018. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation and made the following statement: “Our veterans served our country and made sacrifices to keep America safe and free and we can never do enough to repay them for all they have done. This increase will help veterans and their families and it is only a small part of how we can thank them for their service to our country.”
05.17.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the Department of Justice and the Drug Enforcement Agency for the 2019 federal budget year. The legislation enhances federal efforts against the opioid crisis. The legislation includes $447 million dollars for overdose reversal drugs and prescription drug monitoring. It also increases funding for the DEA and prioritizes opioid enforcement efforts with additional agents and equipment. Congressman John Moolenaar has met with victims of addiction, law enforcement officials, health care professionals, local elected leaders, and volunteers on the frontlines of the opioid crisis. He has also hosted opioid roundtables this year in Midland and Harrison. He is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and he made the following statement on today’s legislation: “The fight against the opioid crisis takes many forms and I am working on all fronts to make sure our communities have the resources they need for prevention, treatment and law enforcement. This funding for law enforcement will increase monitoring of prescription drugs and boost efforts to stop the illicit trafficking of opioids.” Additional Appropriations Information The House Appropriations Committee has now passed five of the twelve bills it works on annually to fund the departments and agencies of the federal government in each federal budget year. Additional funding for the fight against the opioid crisis is expected in a separate Appropriations bill that funds the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health.
05.16.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the United States Department of Agriculture for the 2019 federal budget year. The legislation includes funding for important Michigan priorities including: $620 million in loans and grants for expanding rural broadband access. $998 million dollars the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service which controls and eradicates plant and animal diseases. $1 billion for food safety and inspection programs at 6,400 facilities across the country. More than $2 billion for infrastructure, focused on rural water and waste program loans. $3.1 billion for agriculture research that helps stop crop diseases including funding for the sugar beet and bean research facility at Michigan State University. $6.9 billion in loans for rural electric service and telephone lines. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the Appropriations Committee and he made the following statement on today’s legislation: “This funding supports the men and women in Michigan agriculture who put food on tables here at home and around the world. It supports important research at Michigan State and it will help address some of the most important concerns Michiganders have, including improving rural water infrastructure and broadband Internet access. I will work with my colleagues to help pass this important legislation when the House votes on it.”
05.16.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee advanced legislation funding programs at the Department of Energy for the 2019 federal budget year. The legislation includes federal funding for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University. The legislation meets MSU’s request for $75 million in funding in 2019. Congressman John Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee has toured FRIB, and he worked with Congressman Mike Bishop, who represents MSU in Congress, to advocate for the funding. Congressman Moolenaar released the following statement: “This funding supports world-class research at Michigan State and it is already bringing talent, jobs, and millions of dollars to mid-Michigan. I look forward to seeing FRIB construction continue at MSU and I appreciate Congressman Bishop's help in making this funding possible.” Congressman Bishop led a letter to the Appropriations Committee and advocated for the project with his colleagues. He made the following statement: “The House Appropriations Committee’s action today is a positive step towards securing America’s role as a global leader in nuclear and medical research, and it’s happening right here in Michigan’s Eighth District. I applaud Congressman Moolenaar and my colleagues on the committee for continuing the full funding of the Facility for Rate Isotope Beams (FRIB) at Michigan State University. Once finished, FRIB is anticipated to serve more than 1,400 highly-skilled researchers–creating major economic growth for our community and state. I will continue working with Congress and the administration to ensure FRIB remains funded and on schedule for completion.”
05.16.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved legislation funding the Army Corps of Engineers for the 2019 federal budget year. The legislation authorizes the Army Corps to use $1.6 billion from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to dredge harbors and maintain breakwalls. The legislation also instructs the Army Corps to present quarterly briefings to Congress on efforts to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam near Chicago. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. He supported the legislation and made the following statement: “Funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will help keep our harbors open for business and support jobs in mid and northern Michigan, especially in tourism, boating and fishing. “We also need to make sure the Army Corps finishes its study on preventing Asian carp from entering Lake Michigan. Keeping invasive species out of the Great Lakes will help protect Michigan’s economy and our way of life. Michiganders have made their views known to the Army Corps through the public comment process. The Corps should strongly consider those views and finish its recommendations for protecting the Great Lakes."
05.14.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee introduced legislation that will fund the Department of Interior and the EPA for the 2019 federal budget. The legislation is one of 12 bills that the Committee works on to fund federal departments and agencies. The legislation includes full funding, $300 million, for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) as requested by Congressman John Moolenaar, Michigan’s only member of the House Appropriations Committee. The full Appropriations Committee will consider the legislation in the weeks ahead. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today’s legislation: “The Great Lakes are a priority for all Michigan residents. They are crucial to our economy and our way of life. I am thankful to my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for joining me in support of the GLRI and the important work it does to protect the Great Lakes. I will continue to fight for this funding as it moves forward in the House.”
05.08.2018	Today, President Donald Trump announced he would withdraw the United States from the Obama Administration's nuclear deal with Iran. In 2015, the Obama Administration agreed to the deal even though it was opposed by majorities in Congress. In September of that year, the House rejected a measure approving of the deal, 162-269. In the Senate, Democrats filibustered and blocked consideration of a resolution on the deal. Congressman John Moolenaar voted against the deal in 2015 and made the following statement on today's decision: "The nuclear deal gave Iran, the leading state-sponsor of terrorism, billions of dollars and it used that money to continue terrorizing people around the world. Iran's aggression and hostility towards America and Israel is why I rejected this bad deal when President Obama proposed it three years ago. President Trump and Ambassador Haley have used strong sanctions to bring North Korea to the negotiating table. Now sanctions can be used again to get a better deal with Iran and stop it from obtaining a nuclear weapon."
04.19.2018	Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced new grant funding for states to combat the opioid crisis that is a part of the 21st Century Cures Act passed in 2016. The new funding includes $16,372,680 for the state of the Michigan. As mentioned in the HHS press release, "The Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants, which were created by the 21st Century Cures Act, are administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration within HHS." Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee that oversees funding for HHS. He made the following statement on today's new grants for fighting the opioid crisis: "The opioid crisis has affected all of our communities. This new funding will help state and local governments in Michigan work together to win the fight against addiction and treat those who are most in need." Additional InformationNational Prescription Drug Takeback Day is April 28. Michigan residents are encouraged to drop-off extra, unused prescription drugs for safe disposal. A list of drop-off locations is available at: https://takebackday.dea.gov/.
04.18.2018	"Barbara Bush was an amazing woman. She was fiercely loyal, funny, witty, and plain-spoken. She was married to the love of her life for 73 years, and together they served our country with grace and class as President and First Lady. She raised an incredible family, including another president, and lived her life with humor, generosity and compassion for all she met each day. Amy and I join our nation in praying for President Bush and the entire Bush family as they mourn the loss of a wonderful woman."
04.14.2018	This weekend, the United States, France, and the United Kingdom launched strikes on chemical weapons facilities run by the regime of dictator Bashar al-Asaad in Syria. The strikes were launched in response to the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime on innocent civilians, including children. More information on the military action and the facilities that were hit is available from the Department of Defense. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on the allied military action this weekend: "After multiple diplomatic efforts to end Bashar al-Assad's heinous use of chemical weapons, the United States, France and the United Kingdom successfully used limited military action to cripple three chemical weapons facilities inside Syria. This weekend's international action sends a strong message to Syria, Iran and Russia that their use and support of chemical weapons will not be tolerated."
04.12.2018	Today, House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway introduced the 2018 Farm Bill. Congress works on a Farm Bill every five years to support rural communities and the men and women who grow America's food. Complete information about the Farm Bill is available at: https://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill/ Congressman John Moolenaar welcomed the introduction of the Farm Bill and made the following statement: "This year, I have been meeting with farmers to hear about the challenges they are facing. The Farm Bill provides critical support for the farmers in our district and it will support new farmers as they start out in agriculture. It will also benefit our rural communities with infrastructure initiatives and more than $582 million in yearly funding to improve rural Internet access. "I want to thank Chairman Conaway and the Agriculture Committee for their work introducing this legislation. I will continue to follow developments as it moves through Congress and I hope farmers will continue to contact me with their concerns regarding this legislation."
04.12.2018	Today, the House of Representatives came up short in an attempt to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment as the 28th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The Amendment needed two-thirds support in the House. More than 220 Republicans voted for it, but it ultimately fell short of passage with more than 170 Democrats voting against it. The Balanced Budget Amendment would require the annual federal budget to be balanced five years after it is ratified by three-fourths of the states. It would also be possible to waive the Amendment in the event of war. The text of the Balanced Budget Amendment is available here. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the Balanced Budget Amendment and made the following statement today: "Right now, 49 states, including Michigan, have balanced budget laws. Michigan families also work hard to pay their bills and balance their own budgets. The federal government should do the same. I support the Balanced Budget Amendment because its addition to the U.S. Constitution is good government and common sense."
04.11.2018	Today, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan of Wisconsin announced that he will retire from the House of Representatives at the end of the current term. Ryan was first elected to the House in 1998. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement: "Speaker Ryan has been an outstanding leader for our country in Congress. In 2015, he answered the call of service to take on the incredibly difficult job of Speaker. Since then, he has increased funding for our veterans and our military, and led the fight for historic tax reform with lower rates and a $2,000 child tax credit that helps hardworking Michigan families. I wish Speaker Ryan and his family all the best."
03.22.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that funds federal government operations through the end of the 2018 federal fiscal year that ends on September 30, 2018. The legislation funds important Michigan priorities including Great Lakes protection, national security, rural broadband, and the fight against the opioid epidemic. The legislation includes the following: $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative $685 million for the expansion of rural broadband, tele-health and distance learning opportunities. $4 billion across federal departments to support states and local communities in the fight against the opioid epidemic. $14 billion, a $1.8 billion increase for Customs and Border Protection. $37 billion, a $3 billion increase for research to find cures for cancer, Alzheimer's and other diseases. $81.5 billion, a record amount for the Department of Veterans Affairs to care for our nation's veterans. $86.2 billion for transportation infrastructure, including a $3.5 billion increase for roads and bridges. $659 billion for national security and a 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Today’s bipartisan legislation delivers for Michigan with funding to protect the Great Lakes, increased funding for national security, support for those on the frontlines against the opioid crisis, and opportunities for Michigan communities to apply for rural broadband funding. It also has funding to care for our veterans and to find cures in the fight against cancer and Alzehmier's. Finally, this legislation increases funding for roads and bridges and does more to secure our country's borders."
03.21.2018	Today, new legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives that will fully fund the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for the rest of the fiscal year. The provision is part of legislation that will fund operations of the federal government through the end of September 30, 2018. In total, the GLRI will be funded for $300 million. Congressman John Moolenaar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and he successfully worked to make sure this critical priority for Michigan is included in the new legislation. He made the following statement on today's bill: "Through my work on the Appropriations Committee, I have been working hard to make sure today’s legislation benefits the priorities of Michigan residents. Today’s bipartisan agreement delivers for our state with vital funding to protect the Great Lakes so they can be enjoyed for generations to come.”
03.16.2018	Today, more than 60 bipartisan members of the House of Representatives wrote to the House Appropriations Committee urging the committee to support the Great lakes Restoration Initiative. The letter calls for the Appropriations Committee to pass legislation funding the GLRI at $300 million dollars in the fiscal year 2019 budget that begins on October 1, 2018 and runs through September 30, 2019. The requested amount is the same level of funding that has been approved by Congress in previous years. You can read the members’ letter here. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the Appropriations Committee and he welcomed his colleagues' support for the GLRI as he works on the committee to fund it. He made the following statement on today's letter: “Funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative supports vital work to protect the Great Lakes and the rivers, lakes and wetlands that flow into them. I welcome the bipartisan support of my colleagues for this critical funding and I will be working to fund this Michigan priority in the 2019 budget.”
03.14.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Students, Teachers and Officers Preventing School Violence Act of 2018 (The STOP School Violence Act). The bipartisan legislation provides resources for schools to improve school security and prevent violence. More information on the legislation is available here. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Today's legislation gives states and local school districts the resources and flexibility to implement measures they believe will work best to create a safe learning environment for students and teachers."
03.14.2018	Today, the House of the Representatives passed the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act. The legislation makes it a federal crime, punishable by fine and up to five years in prison, to defraud veterans of their VA benefits. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation and made the following statement: "It's truly shameful that there are people who would target veterans and steal their VA benefits. This legislation will ensure that those who steal from our veterans will face justice for their actions."
03.07.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar met with Lieutenant Colonel Dennis Sugrue of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. They discussed ongoing projects in Congressman Moolenaar's district and the Corps' work on the Soo Locks. The Army Corps study regarding a new lake carrier-sized lock is expected, after multiple delays, to be completed and released to the public on June 29. Congressman Moolenaar made the following comment on today's meeting: "I strongly encourage the Army Corps to complete its report on the Soo Locks as soon as possible. This report is already behind schedule and it should be completed before June 29. Each day of inaction on this project raises the price of building a new Soo lock, costing the taxpayers more money. It's time for the Army Corps to get its work done." Congressman Moolenaar discusses the Soo Locks with Lieutenant Colonel Dennis Sugrue of the United States Corps of Engineers. ###
03.06.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar questioned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin about the Treasury Department's efforts to implement tax reform. Congressman Moolenaar highlighted the positive developments tax reform has meant for constituents in the Fourth District including lower tax rates, higher wages, bonuses, and growing small businesses. He told Secretary Mnuchin about his State of the Union guest, Greg Rynearson, and how Cops and Doughnuts recently announced plans to open a new store. He also mentioned last month's news from Quad Graphics. The national printing company, with facilities in Midland and Greenville, is contributing bonuses to its employees' retirement plans. The recently passed tax reform is the largest overhaul of the federal tax code in 30 years so Congressman Moolenaar asked Secretary Mnuchin about the department's efforts to implement the new law. Secretary Mnuchin pledged that there would be a strong focus on customer service at the IRS, including modernizing the phone system so taxpayers in need of assistance will be able to call someone for help during tax time. The new tax reform law does not apply to returns filed for 2017, but the department is preparing ahead of next year's filing season. Finally, Congressman Moolenaar questioned Secretary Mnuchin on the department's work to impose sanctions on Iran, North Korea and Russia. Secretary Mnuchin announced at the hearing that his department is reallocating resources to focus on sanctions against Russia. While the secretary declined to specifically name countries involved in cyberattacks against the American financial system he did ask for more funding to combat these threats in the future. Video of Congressman Moolenaar questioning Secretary Mnuchin can be seen here. Congressman Moolenaar made the following comment on today's hearing: "Tax reform continues to be a success for hardworking Michigan residents. They are keeping more of their hard earned money in each paycheck and that is always a good thing. However, the tax code can be tough to navigate so I strongly urge Secretary Mnuchin and the Treasury Department to modernize the IRS and make sure taxpayers are receiving support with their returns this year. Taxpayers can also call my office in Midland for help if they are having a problem with the IRS." ###
03.05.2018	Congressman John Moolenaar invites all high school students from Michigan's Fourth Congressional District to enter their art in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The winning student from the Fourth District will have his or her art displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year and receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C for an annual event with Congressional Art Competition winners from around the country. Regional winners from the Fourth District will have the opportunity for their art to appear in Congressman Moolenaar's Midland and Cadillac offices. The entry deadline for this year’s contest is April 6 and entries should be delivered to Congressman Moolenaar’s Midland office at 200 East Main Street, Suite 230, Midland, MI 48640. More information on the rules and how to enter the Art Competition is online at https://moolenaar.house.gov/artcompetition. Interested students who need assistance transporting their art to Midland or who have additional questions on the competition should contact Congressman Moolenaar's Midland office at 989-631-2552. Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District is made up of Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, and parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties. ###
03.02.2018	Today, there was a fatal shooting on the campus of Central Michigan University. Two people were killed and the alleged suspect remains at large. Congressman John Moolenaar's district includes Central Michigan University. He made the following statement on the incident: "Today's tragedy breaks the hearts of everyone who is a part of the CMU community. I know the university works hard to ensure a safe learning environment for all of its students, faculty and staff. State, local and tribal law enforcement is doing everything it can to apprehend the suspect and protect the community."
02.13.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Department of Energy Research Infrastructure Act. The legislation includes authorization for the Department of Energy to continue construction of the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at Michigan State University. Congressman Moolenaar has been a long-time supporter of the FRIB project and he toured the facility last September. He supported the legislation passed by the House today and made the following statement: "FRIB is a long-term investment that will help solve some of the biggest issues in medicine and scientific research. It will create good-paying jobs in mid Michigan and today's legislation will ensure that construction continues on this vital project." ###
02.12.2018	Today, the Trump Administration released its budget proposal for fiscal year 2019, which begins on October 1, 2018. The administration also unveiled an infrastructure plan that addresses critical priorities for the nation's roads, bridges, and waterways. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which will decide funding levels for federal departments and programs. He made the following statements on today's White House proposals. On the proposal to cut funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: "I have always worked with my colleagues to fully fund and support our Great Lakes. In years past, we successfully defended the Great Lakes from the cuts proposed by Presidents Trump and Obama and we will fight to do so again this year." On the proposal to support rural infrastructure and broadband: "Too often infrastructure proposals bypass our rural communities. The president's proposal today makes agriculture a priority and helps fund critical needs including rural broadband." On the $17 billion proposal for fighting the opioid crisis: "Last month, I hosted a roundtable of local leaders to talk about the toll of the opioid crisis on our communities. The new funding in the Administration's proposal today is another step in making sure those who need treatment receive the help they need." Previously:Moolenaar Questions Budget Director on Great Lakes Funding CutHouse Passes Funding for Protecting the Great LakesProtecting the Great LakesMoolenaar Questions OMB Director About Great LakesHouse Passes Great Lakes FundingMoolenaar Speaks at CMU Symposium on Great Lakes Research ###
02.06.2018	Today, former U.S. Congressman Joe Knollenberg passed away at age 84 due to complications from Alzheimer’s. Knollenberg represented southeast Michigan in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1993 to 2009. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on today’s news: “Joe Knollenberg honorably served our country in the Army and he was an invaluable public servant in Congress. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee he worked hard to deliver for the people of Michigan. He will be missed and my prayers are with the entire Knollenberg family today.”
01.30.2018	Tonight, Greg “Ryno” Rynearson attended the State of the Union as a guest of Congressman John Moolenaar. Rynearson, a former Clare police officer, is co-founder and co-owner of the Cops & Doughnuts Clare City Bakery. Moolenaar invited Rynearson because Cops and Doughnuts has been part of the Clare comeback. Where there were once empty storefronts, there are now small businesses. Moolenaar made the following statement on Rynearson’s visit: “It was outstanding to have Ryno attend as my guest for the State of the Union and to honor the great work that is being done in Clare to help the community.” Rynearson made the following statement on attending tonight’s speech: “You know, no matter who is president, it is an honor to go to the State of the Union. It was special to see our nation’s leaders including the Cabinet and the Supreme Court, and to see other special guests including folks from law enforcement and small business. It was truly something special that I will never forget.” ###
01.29.2018	This month the country has watched as brave young women have stood up in a Michigan courtroom and courageously spoken out about the crimes of Larry Nassar, an athletic doctor for Michigan State University and USA Gymnastics. The case stems from a 2016 report in the Indianapolis Star that reported that USA Gymnastics had failed to report many allegations of sexual abuse to law enforcement. Today, the House passed the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act which will require amateur athletic organizations to immediately report suspected cases of abuse to law enforcement. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the law and made the following statement: "Too many adults failed the victims at Michigan State and USA Gymnastics. Young women turned to administrators for help and they were let down. It is simply unacceptable that suspected cases of abuse were not reported to law enforcement. Now, this failure will not only be unacceptable, it will also be a crime." ###
01.23.2018	Central Michigan University President George Ross has announced that he will step down as leader of the university on July 31, 2018. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on President Ross's retirement: "I spoke with President Ross and congratulated him on his incredible leadership at CMU. He has strengthened the university's commitment to STEM education, made it a leader in Great Lakes research, opened the College of Medicine and seen the first medical students graduate. His work has made our region and our state a better place and the next president will have a tremendous legacy to build upon. I have enjoyed working with George and I wish him and Elizabeth all the best in retirement." ###
01.22.2018	Today, Senate Democrats ended their filibuster of legislation that will re-open the federal government. The legislation was then passed by the Senate and then by the House of Representatives. The legislation also authorizes the Children's Health Insurance Program for the next six years, the longest extension in the program's history. Congressman Moolenaar supported the legislation and made the following statement: "This was an unnecessary shutdown by Senate Democrats to negotiate an issue completely unrelated to keeping the government open. Today's legislation is responsible and it funds priorities for our state including children's health insurance, Great Lakes protection, and national security. Our country faces important issues including immigration and a long-term budget solution and I look forward to working on them."
01.19.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will protect children who are born during an abortion. Across the country, there have been many instances where a child has been born after an abortion procedure has failed. The legislation passed today requires doctors and medical personnel to "exercise the same degree of care to preserve the life and health of the child as any health care practitioner would provide to a child born alive at the same gestational age." The bill also requires the born infant be transported to a hospital immediately following the administration of emergency care. Congressman John Moolenaar has a 100 percent pro-life record and voted for today's legislation. He made the following statement in support of it: "All children are a blessing and this legislation will ensure that children born during a failed abortion will receive immediate medical support and have their inalienable right to life recognized." ###
01.19.2018	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar honored Corunna High School student Xavier Staubs with a tribute in the Congressional Record. Staubs, a swimmer for the Corunna swim team, saved the life of Kamrin Samson, a swimmer on the Owosso High School swim team. The tribute honoring Xavier's heroism will go into the Congressional Record and it will be kept on record forever in the Library of Congress. A copy of the Congressional Record is below. Congressional Record PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATE OF THE 115TH CONGRESS, 2nd SESSION House of Representatives Tribute to Xavier Staubs Extension of Remarks – Friday, January 18, 2018 Congressman John Moolenaar Mr. Speaker: I rise today to pay tribute to Xavier Staubs, a freshman at Corunna High School, for his heroic actions in saving a rival swimmer from drowning during a swim meet. Xavier showed bravery and courage in helping to save the life of another. Xavier is a freshman at Corunna High School and on Thursday, January 4, his quick and decisive action saved the life of a competing student. After completing the last leg of the 200-yard medley relay against rival Owosso High School he noticed panicked spectators pointing to Kamrin Samson, a junior at Owosso High School, who was sinking to the bottom of the pool. Xavier jumped back into the pool, swam down, and brought Kamrin back to the surface to receive the medical attention he needed. Once Kamrin was out of the water, medical personnel and coaching staff from both high schools performed the necessary treatment to resuscitate him. For such a young individual, Xavier did not waver in a crucial moment. He was fearless and courageous at a time of life or death for a fellow swimmer. To Xavier, all that mattered was doing the right thing. Actions such as these should serve as a guideline for how we should live our own lives: selflessness in service to others. Xavier’s heroic actions on January 4 will be remembered by those in attendance for years to come, and they are a defining moment in his young life. On behalf of the Fourth Congressional District of Michigan, I am honored today to recognize Xavier Staubs for his heroic and selfless actions.
01.18.2018	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed legislation extending the Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years. The extension passed in today’s legislation is the longest extension in the history of the CHIP program. The legislation passed today also keeps the government open through February 16 and allows for leaders to negotiate solutions on some of the larger issues facing the country. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “Extending the Children’s Health Insurance Program means more than 100,000 Michigan children will have health insurance. This is an important program and it’s one that Republicans and Democrats have both supported in years past. “This legislation keeps the government open, funds our national security, and pays our troops. It’s responsible and Democrats should support it.” ###
01.11.2018	Today, the Treasury Department announced new withholding tables for payroll taxes following the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act becoming law last year. The new withholding tables mean that taxpayers will see immediate tax relief starting next month. According to the Treasury Department, employers should comply with the new rules by February 15. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and made the following statement on today's news: "Many Michigan residents are living paycheck to paycheck and next month those paychecks are going to be bigger. They will have extra money in each paycheck to spend here in our communities and to provide for their families." To see the full announcement from the Treasury Department, click here. To see the announcement from the IRS, click here. To see the new withholding tables, click here.
12.20.2017	Today, AT&T announced that it is rewarding 200,000 U.S. employees - all union-represented, non-management and front-line managers - with $1,000 bonuses because of the tax reform legislation that was passed by Congress this week. In a press release from the company, AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said "this tax reform will drive economic growth and create good-paying jobs. In fact, we will increase our U.S. investment and pay a special bonus to our U.S. employees.” According to the company, AT&T has about 5,000 employees in Michigan who will receive bonuses because of today's announcement. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on today's news: "Tax reform is already benefiting hardworking Michigan residents. Companies like AT&T are using the money they save to invest in their employees and our country. With the lower rates, higher standard deductions, and a $2,000 child tax credit, Michigan residents will have higher wages and pay less in taxes, keeping more of their own money."
12.19.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R.1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a historic overhaul of the federal tax code and the first major reform since 1986. The legislation doubles the standard deduction for individuals and married couples to $12,000 and $24,000, respectively. It also doubles the child tax credit to $2,000 per child, which will benefit families in the Fourth District. There have been 43,832 families in the Fourth District claimed the child tax credit. The legislation includes deductions for medical expenses, charitable contributions, mortgage interest, adoption expenses, and state and local taxes. There is a continuation of the $250 deduction for teachers buying school supplies, and the deduction for student loan interest. The tax-free treatment of tuition waivers for graduate students also continues. Additional background on the legislation is available here. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "This is historic tax relief for hardworking, middle-class Michigan residents, especially those living paycheck to paycheck. Parents have told me how much the $2,000 child tax credit will help them raise their families. They're going to keep more of their own money to provide for their kids. "Small business owners who see their profits come in as personal income are going to get a tax cut and many of them in our community have said this tax relief will help them grow their businesses here in our community, expanding facilities, hiring more people and paying higher wages. "Simply put, this tax relief legislation means Michigan families will keep more of their own money and that is always a good thing." Tax Reform By The Numbers $2,000: The new child tax credit, increased from $1,000. 43,832: The number of taxpayers in Congressman Moolenaar's district who claim the child tax credit. $12,000: The new standard deduction for individual filers, increased from $6,000. $24,000: The new standard deduction for married filers, increased from $12,000.
12.06.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act. The legislation allows individuals with concealed carry permits to carry across the state lines. The legislation also updates the National Instant Criminal Background Check System and increases assistance to states so they can increase the number of records submitted into the system. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “As always, I strongly support the Second Amendment rights of all Americans. Just as a driver’s license is valid across state lines, this legislation will allow those who have valid permits to carry across state lines. The bill also improves the background check system so states will submit more records and help stop those who are already legally prohibited from buying a gun.”
12.06.2017	Today, President Donald Trump announced his administration’s decision to direct the State Department to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. The embassy is currently located in Tel Aviv. On June 5, 2017, the U.S. Senate reaffirmed support for moving the embassy to Jerusalem. The vote was 90-0. Congressman John Moolenaar supports today's decision and made the following statement: “There is strong bipartisan support for moving our country’s embassy to Jerusalem. Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East and Jerusalem is its capital city. By moving the American embassy to Jerusalem, the United States reaffirms its historic alliance with Israel.” ###
11.16.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar voted for historic tax reform legislation. The bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, is the first major overhaul of the tax code since 1986 and it was passed by the House of Representatives on Thursday afternoon. The legislation doubles the standard deduction for Michigan residents. It goes from $6,000 to $12,000 for individuals and from $12,000 to $24,000 for joint filers. The legislation increases the child tax credit for Michigan families from $1,000 to $1,600 dollars. A Michigan family of four making the national median income of $59,000 would see a tax cut of over $1,000 when it pays its 2018 taxes in April 2019. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today's vote. "This is tax relief for middle class families and Main Street. It will mean bigger paychecks, more jobs and a simpler, fairer system that closes loopholes. It will be a tax cut for Michigan families and keep more money here at home in our local communities." Tax Reform By The Numbers $1,600: The new child tax credit, increased from $1,000. 43,832: The number of taxpayers in Congressman Moolenaar's district who claim the child tax credit, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation. $12,000: The new standard deduction for individual filers, increased from $6,000. $24,000: The new standard deduction for married filers, increased from $12,000.
11.02.2017	Today, leaders in the House of Representatives introduced The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, major legislation which would simplify and reform the federal tax code. The legislation doubles the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for couples. It increases the child tax credit to $1,600 and retains the savings options for retirement plans using 401Ks and IRAs. If the legislation becomes law, it would be the first major overhaul of the federal tax code since 1986. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on the legislation: “I have heard from constituents I represent about how they are struggling with higher costs for everyday expenses. The tax reform introduced today will help Michigan families by giving them a tax cut. For a family of four making median income, the cut would be more than $1,100, letting Michigan families keep more of their own money so they can meet their needs and provide for their children.”
10.03.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar voted for Micah’s Law, to prohibit the abortion of children after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The legislation is named after five-year old Micah Pickering of Iowa City, Iowa who was born when his mother was 20 weeks pregnant. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on today’s legislation: “All children have an inalienable right to life. Today’s legislation will protect the unborn, our society’s most vulnerable people, from the pain of abortion.”
09.28.2017	This morning, Congressman Steve Scalise of Louisiana returned to the House of Representatives and addressed his colleagues for the first time since he was injured in the attack on the Republican baseball practice on June 14. Congressman John Moolenaar welcomed his friend back to the House: “It was a powerful moment this morning when Steve addressed the House. He is an outstanding friend and beloved by so many of his colleagues. Millions of Americans have prayed for him and today’s return is a testament of God’s grace and the spirit that drives Steve every day. I wish him all the best as he continues his recovery and I hope we can be together on a ball field next year.”
09.14.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in next year’s federal budget. The legislation fully funds the GLRI with $300 million for protection of the Great Lakes. The legislation also includes funding for agriculture research, food safety programs, and improvements to infrastructure including rural broadband. Congressman John Moolenaar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, where the legislation originated and which passed the bill earlier this year. Moolenaar voted for the legislation today and made the following statement: “Today’s legislation is a victory for important priorities in Michigan. Funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will protect the Lakes against invasive species and environmental damage. The funding for agricultural research and food safety will benefit Michigan farmers and Michigan families with better crops and safer food on their tables. The legislation will also make money available for rural broadband to improve online access in our communities."
09.06.2017	Today, the House of Representatives approved more than $7 billion dollars for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund. FEMA uses the Disaster Relief Fund to respond to all emergencies under its jurisdiction including its efforts in response to Hurricane Harvey and its work in mid Michigan to assist residents affected by this summer’s flooding. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement on today's legislation: “Americans have been inspired by the selfless generosity of Texans coming together to help one another in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. As the cleanup continues, the funding approved by the House today will help FEMA assist residents in the affected areas rebuild. "As well as its work in the South, FEMA is using the Disaster Relief Fund here in mid Michigan to help residents recover from this summer's flooding. More than 2,000 households have been approved for funding totaling nearly $4 million dollars. I hope the Senate will act quickly to approve this legislation."
07.28.2017	Late this evening, the Army Corps of Engineers Rock Island District announced it will release the Brandon Road report draft on stopping invasive species from entering the Great Lakes through waterways south of Chicago. The report draft will be released on August 7 and the Army Corps will accept public comments on the report draft through September 21. The public will be able to submit comments on https://glmris.anl.gov. The Army Corps' announcement comes one day after the House of Representatives passed legislation calling for the report to be released. See yesterday's press release on that legislation here. As a member of the committee that worked on the legislation passed by the House yesterday, Congressman John Moolenaar advocated for it to include language calling on the Corps to release the report draft. He made the following statement tonight: "The Army Corps' Brandon Road report draft is long overdue. The taxpayers paid for this report and it will help us understand the best way to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes. This is a critical step in protecting the thousands of Michigan jobs supported by tourism, boating and fishing, and in preserving the Great Lakes for future generations."
07.27.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Make America Secure Appropriations Act to fund the Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration and the Army Corps of Engineers for next year. The legislation advances many of the Michigan priorities Congressman John Moolenaar outlined in a recent op-ed sent to district newspapers. The legislation increases defense spending by $68 billion over last year. It also includes a 2.4 percent raise in pay for American troops and increases funding for military family health care. At the Veterans Administration, the legislation provides record funding for the department to care for the nation’s veterans and expedites processing of the unacceptable nationwide backlog of veterans’ disability claims. For the Army Corps of Engineers, the legislation advances Congressman Moolenaar’s efforts to get the Corps to release the Brandon Road Lock report to stop Asian carp. It also instructs the Corps to conduct a modern study of the Soo Locks which fully reflects the true value of the goods that pass through the waterway. Finally, the legislation includes $97.2 million in funding for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam research at Michigan State University. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “I am proud to support the legislation passed by the House today. It supports critical priorities for our state including a pay raise for our troops, funding for our veterans, modernizing the Soo Locks and important scientific research at Michigan State that will bring more than one thousand good-paying jobs to mid Michigan. “For our Great Lakes, the legislation holds the Army Corps of Engineers accountable and calls for the Corps to release the Brandon Road report on Asian carp that Michigan taxpayers have already paid for. I hope the Senate will pass this legislation so the Corps will release the report if it does not choose to do so before then.”
07.21.2017	Today, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder announced that he is asking the federal government for a major disaster declaration for the state following the severe flooding in mid Michigan last month. Congressman John Moolenaar previously called for this decision and made the following statement today: “I welcome the state's decision to ask for federal assistance to help rebuild following the severe flooding in mid Michigan last month. I have been in contact with FEMA since the flooding occurred and the agency has been very responsive, including its preliminary assessment. I hope federal, state and local officials will continue the exemplary work they have done in response to the flooding.”
07.12.2017	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed the Energy and Water appropriations bill funding the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers and related agencies. The legislation calls for the Army Corps of Engineers to release the Brandon Road Lock and Dam report on Asian carp in the Great Lakes Basin. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation today. He made the following statement on the Brandon Road study: “With Asian carp recently found less than 10 miles from Lake Michigan, the Army Corps should release the Brandon Road report promptly. The Great Lakes support billions of dollars in tourism, fishing and boating and they are integral to our way of life in Michigan. It’s time for the Army Corps to release the report and take actions to safeguard the Great Lakes ecosystem.” Today’s legislation also calls for the Army Corps of Engineers to complete its study on the feasibility of replacing deep water locks and take into account the value added importance of goods that pass through the Soo Locks. Congressman Moolenaar made the statement on the Army Corps part of the legislation: “The Army Corps of Engineers must account for the true value of the iron ore passing through the Soo Locks. It is more than a commodity. It is vital to agriculture, infrastructure and good-paying American manufacturing jobs like automobiles and appliances. Once the Army Corps accounts for this significant impact on the economy and national security it will understand the need to build a new modern Lock in Sault Ste. Marie.”
07.12.2017	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation funding the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the 2018 federal fiscal year which begins on October 1, 2017. The legislation includes funding for critical USDA programs including food safety and rural infrastructure. Congressman Moolenaar supported the legislation and released the following statement: “This legislation supports Michigan agriculture with important funding for agricultural research and food inspection. It also supports good-paying jobs, spurring investment in rural water and utility infrastructure. Michigan is a leader in agriculture and today’s legislation will help our state’s farmers continue to put food on the tables of families in Michigan and around the world.” The following details about the legislation are from the Appropriations Committee: Agricultural Research – The bill provides $2.8 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. This funding will support research at all ARS facilities to help mitigate and stop devastating crop diseases, improve food safety and water quality, increase production and combat antimicrobial resistance. This funding also includes important research investments in U.S. land-grant colleges and universities and for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s premier competitive research program. Animal and Plant Health – The legislation includes $906 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. This funding will support programs to help control or eradicate plant and animal pests and diseases that can be crippling to U.S. producers. Food Safety and Inspection Service – The legislation includes $1.038 billion for food safety and inspection programs. These mandatory inspection activities help ensure the safety and productivity of the country’s meat and poultry industry and keeps safe, healthy food on American tables. The funding provided will maintain more than 8,000 frontline inspection personnel for meat, poultry and egg products at more than 6,400 facilities across the country. Rural Infrastructure – The legislation includes responsible investments in infrastructure to help rural areas of the country access basic utilities. This includes $1.25 billion for rural water and waste program loans, and $473 million for grants and related costs. In addition, $6.94 billion is provided for rural electric and telephone infrastructure loans.
06.29.2017	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed the Defense Appropriations bill to fund the Department of Defense for the 2018 fiscal year. The legislation increases defense spending by $68 billion over last year's enacted budget. It includes a 2.4 percent raise in pay for American troops and increases funding for military family health care. Congressman John Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “This legislation addresses the vital needs of our military men and women around the world as they work to keep our country safe. It funds the equipment and resources they need to defeat our enemies and pays for research that will keep our country ahead of the terrorists and rogue states like Iran and North Korea. Finally, today’s legislation gives our troops a well-earned raise and improves health care for their families so they know their families are safe while they serve and protect ours.”
06.29.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed Kate’s Law to increase penalties for deported illegal immigrants who re-enter the United States. The law is named after Kate Steinle who was killed in 2015 by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times and convicted of multiple felonies. Kate’s Law keeps dangerous criminals behind bars by increasing the maximum number of years of imprisonment for deported felons who reenter the United States. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and released the following statement: “What happened to Kate Steinle in San Francisco was a tragedy. As a public servant, keeping Americans safe is my top priority. I support Kate’s Law because it will keep dangerous criminals behind bars and the increased penalties will help secure the border by serving as a deterrent to those who want to reenter the country illegally. ”
06.23.2017	Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The legislation overwhelmingly passed the House last week and unanimously passed the Senate earlier this month. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “In a time when so much news coverage focuses on division in Washington, as Americans there is still more that unites us than divides us. Republicans, Democrats and President Trump all agree that our veterans deserve the best care. The new law the president signed today will promote accountability in government and help the VA provide our veterans with the care they have earned in service to our country.” Background on the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection of 2017 The legislation will hold officials at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) accountable and make it easier to fire those who fail our veterans. It will also protect whistleblowers who expose scandals at the department. The VA needs this authority so it is easier to fire employees like this one. The protections for whistleblowers come after a whistleblower at the VA’s Phoenix facility was harassed for exposing a secret waitlist while hundreds of veterans died waiting for care. The legislation is endorsed by numerous veterans organizations.
06.23.2017	Today, the Illinois Department of Natural Resources and the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee announced that Asian carp had been found less than ten miles from Lake Michigan. The complete press release from the ACRCC is available here. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement on today's news: “The finding of Asian carp less than ten miles from Lake Michigan is another alarm bell for action to protect the Great Lakes ecosystem from this invasive species. There is an urgent need for the Army Corps of Engineers to release the Brandon Road Lock and Dam report so further steps can be taken to stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes.”
06.23.2017	This week, the Environmental Protection Agency announced $9.7 million in funding will be used to begin the next phase in the clean-up of the Velsicol Superfund site in St. Louis. Congressman John Moolenaar previously led a bipartisan letter to the EPA about this issue and released the following statement: “This funding is a positive step in the long overdue clean-up process. I will keep the pressure on the EPA to see this clean-up through to the end and restore the Pine River for future generations.”
06.22.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The legislation extends the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act which has provided grants to educational institutions serving students in the Fourth District including Delta College, Ferris State University, Mid Michigan Community College and Montcalm Community College. Additionally, communities in all 15 counties of Michigan's Fourth Congressional District have career centers and high schools that are part of the Michigan Center for Career and Technical Education. A complete list of participants is here: https://ctenavigator.org/schools Congressman John Moolenaar supports the legislation and released the following statement: “Today’s legislation helps students in mid and northern Michigan pursue good-paying jobs in the skilled trades. Making sure students are learning these critical skills is vital to maintaining Michigan’s talented workforce and world-leading manufacturing base.”
06.22.2017	This week, Congressman John Moolenaar co-sponsored bipartisan legislation that will force the Army Corps of Engineers to release a report about the Brandon Road Lock and Dam’s role in stopping Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes. The legislation has 31 bipartisan co-sponsors in the House and seven in the Senate. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement about the legislation: “The Army Corps of Engineers needs to release the Brandon Road Lock report promptly. Asian carp is an invasive species that jeopardizes the Great Lakes ecosystem and our state’s economy. By continuing to block the release of this report, the Army Corps delays solutions that will help stop Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes.” Background on the Brandon Road Lock and Dam report is here.
06.21.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar questioned Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney. Congressman Moolenaar raised concerns about the administration’s proposal to cut the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. In his support for the GLRI, Congressman Moolenaar emphasized that the Great Lakes are an international border and contain 20 percent of the world’s freshwater, supplying drinking water to millions of Americans. Director Mulvaney thanked Moolenaar for the question and responded: “There is an international component that may make [GLRI] more federal than I had thought it was before we chatted.” After the hearing, Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement: “I am glad Director Mulvaney recognizes the importance of the Great Lakes as an international border and I hope he is open to supporting the GLRI. The GLRI has been authorized by Congress for the next five years and I will be working with my colleagues to fund it in the final budget.”
06.13.2017	Today, in an overwhelming bipartisan vote, the House of Representatives passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The legislation will hold officials at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) accountable and make it easier to fire those who fail our veterans. It will also protect whistleblowers who expose scandals at the department. The VA needs this authority so it is easier to fire employees like this one. The protections for whistleblowers come after a whistleblower at the VA’s Phoenix facility was harassed for exposing a secret waitlist while hundreds of veterans died waiting for care. The legislation is endorsed by numerous veterans organizations and it unanimously passed the Senate last week. It now goes to the president for his signature. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and released the following statement: "This legislation is an important part of holding the VA accountable for the care of our veterans. While the majority of VA employees are hardworking, it is vital that we streamline the process for removing those who have failed our veterans. This legislation will help ensure the VA has the best people providing our veterans with the care they earned for serving our country."
06.08.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Financial CHOICE Act. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation and released the following statement: “The Financial Choice Act benefits everyday Americans by reining in Washington bureaucrats and freeing up money to invest in hometown projects. Wall Street banks that benefited during the Obama Administration oppose today’s bill because they enjoy advantages the status quo provides them over Michigan community banks and credit unions.”
06.07.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar co-sponsored legislation introduced in House of Representatives by Congressman Jack Bergman to authorize construction of a new lock at the Soo Locks. Congressman Moolenaar and Congressman Bergman are working on the issue and they recently wrote an op-ed calling for Congress to fund construction of a new lock. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement on the introduction of today's legislation: “The Soo Locks are vital to our country. We need to improve the 50-year old infrastructure and build a new lock to grow the economy and protect good-paying jobs for hardworking Michigan residents.”
06.07.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will make it easier for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) to hire veterans and law enforcement officers to work as CBP officers and Border Patrol agents. The legislation addresses a staffing shortfall with 1,000 fewer CBP officers and 1,800 fewer Border Patrol agents working than is currently mandated by Congress. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and released the following statement: "This legislation will make it easier for our veterans and law enforcement officers to pursue job opportunities and continue to serve our country. As a public servant, ensuring our national security is my top priority. Customs and Border Patrol needs to hire more agents to keep our country safe and this legislation will help do that."
05.25.2017	This week, the House of Representatives passed multiple pieces of legislation to protect America’s children. The legislation gives youth service organizations access to federal background check data, allows the public to know where sex offenders live, gives prosecutors the tools they need to prosecute criminals, strengthens the penalties for those who exploit children, and protects the victims of child pornography and sexual assault. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation and released the following statement: “The legislation passed this week will protect Michigan children and their families. It gives more resources to parents and law enforcement and it strengthens penalties against criminals.”
05.23.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to help our nation’s more than 21 million veterans. The legislation passed by the House today helps veterans with mental health and home care. It also provides a COLA increase for veterans disability and expedites the appeals process for more than 500,000 veterans with appeals at the VA. Congressman John Moolenaar supported the legislation and made the following statement: “Today's legislation is one way our country can repay our veterans for their service and sacrifice. By expediting appeals at the VA and making it easier to receive care at home, today’s legislation will help meet the needs of Michigan veterans and their families."
05.08.2017	Today, President Donald Trump announced the nomination of Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen to serve on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Larsen previously served as a law clerk for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and worked at the University of Michigan Law School. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement on Larsen's nomination: "Joan Larsen is an outstanding choice for the Sixth Circuit. She will serve as a rule of law judge and her decisions will be guided by the Constitution. I hope the Senate will confirm her nomination promptly."
05.04.2017	Today, the House of Representatives voted to sanction the government of North Korea and its nuclear weapons program. North Korea has repeatedly tested ballistic missiles that threaten the security of the American people. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the sanctions on North Korea and released the following statement: “The government of North Korea is trying to develop weapons that can be used to threaten the United States and its allies. Today’s sanctions will protect the American people and support efforts to stop North Korea.”
05.04.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act. Congressman Moolenaar voted for today’s legislation and kept the promise he made to constituents since 2014 to repeal and replace the 2010 health care law. Congressman Moolenaar released the following statement: “Today, I voted to keep the promise I made to the voters of my district to rescue Americans from the collapsing health care law that has raised premiums and deductibles and replace it with a better health care system. “The American Health Care Act is a patient-centered solution that will give Michigan residents more health care choices that are best for them and their family. It includes protections and $138 billion in support for Americans who have preexisting conditions and it allows young adults under age 26 to remain on their parents’ health care. “It also reforms Medicaid so states have resources to continue caring for individuals the program was meant to protect – children, seniors, and the disabled – for decades to come, and it gives states the flexibility to focus on how to best meet the needs of their own residents. “This new patient-centered legislation will offer hardworking Michigan residents more health care choices and a stronger safety net that is an improvement over the failed health care law that has limited choices and sent premiums and deductibles soaring across the country.”
04.25.2017	Today, President Donald Trump signed an executive order creating an executive branch task force to study the burdens the federal government imposes on farmers. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement: “Farmers are our best conservationists and they work hard to put food on the tables of families in our state and around the world. Overregulation has burdened agriculture and more can be done to help hardworking Michigan farmers like those in the milk and sugar industries who have been hurt by unfair trade practices. I hope this task force will find common-sense solutions to reform government and help a vital part of our state’s economy.”
04.24.2017	Today, the United States Senate confirmed Sonny Perdue to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement: "It is good to see the Senate confirm Sonny Perdue to lead the Department of Agriculture. Agriculture is vital to Michigan and I look forward to working with the new secretary on the issues facing farmers and rural communities throughout our state.”
04.07.2017	Moolenaar Statement on Syria Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement regarding last night's U.S. military strike on the Shayrat Airfield in Syria: "Earlier this week Bashar al-Assad's horrific use of chemical weapons slaughtered innocent children in Syria. Last night's U.S. military strike on Assad's airfield carried out by our brave men and women damages his ability to perpetrate future atrocities and is a strong signal that the United States will not accept his brutal use of chemical weapons."
04.06.2017	This morning, Congressman John Moolenaar spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the "overwhelming and generous" efforts of the Michigan farming community to help farmers in America's heartland who have been affected by wildfires. The transcript of Congressman Moolenaar's remarks is below and a video is here. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Honoring the Michigan Farmers Helping Those Affected by the Wildfires in the American Heartland Mr. Speaker, Today, another farm convoy left Michigan and headed south to help those suffering in America’s heartland, where wildfires have burned more than a million acres in four states. This convoy, and those like it in days gone by and the days to come, is the work of the amazing farming community in my district and across the state of Michigan. They have donated trucks, trailers and time to drive supplies to the affected areas. They have donated food and fencing to help farmers recover and rebuild. They have donated care packages with candy and cards to care for the hurting souls. Many volunteers are staying and helping in the devastated communities. In fact, tomorrow, two young men from Ogemaw County, Brady and Keaton, are scheduled to travel with 4-H kids from Michigan's Thumb area, to volunteer their skills and help build fencing in Kansas. The overwhelming and generous efforts of the Michigan farming community in response to this tragedy represent the best of America. I pray for God's blessing on all involved as they help with this crisis.
03.31.2017	This week, Congressman John Moolenaar honored Jack Telfer, the retiring editor of the Midland Daily News, with a tribute in the Congressional Record. Telfer has worked at the Daily News since 1991 and in 2016 he led the publication to the Michigan Press Association Newspaper of the Year award for its circulation category. The text of the tribute Congressman Moolenaar entered into the Congressional Record is below. Congressional Record PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATE OF THE 115TH CONGRESS, 1st SESSION House of Representatives Tribute to the Editor of Midland Daily News, John H. “Jack” Telfer II Extension of Remarks – Wednesday, March 29, 2017 Mr. Speaker: I rise today to pay tribute to Jack Telfer, the Editor of the Midland Daily News, upon his retirement. Jack was born and raised in Port Huron where he attended St. Clair County Community College and earned his Associates degree. He went on to attend Central Michigan University and graduated with a Bachelors in Journalism in 1978. After finishing school, Jack began his career in journalism as a court and police beat reporter for the Daily Tribune. Jack went on to become the editor of the Huron Daily Tribune in 1983. His leadership was exceptional and he earned the Hearst Eagle Award, which is the company’s highest award for excellence. In 1991, he moved to Midland to become the editor of the Midland Daily News, another Hearst Publication. In his 25 years at the Midland Daily News, he has been a cornerstone of the paper’s success and helped lead it to the 2016 Michigan Press Association Newspaper of the Year award. Outside of work, Jack’s wife Jeanne, daughter Renee and son John Telfer III along with their spouses and his grandchildren have been the biggest part of his life. Jack looks forward to spending more time with them and further imparting his legacy of faith and love of hockey. Jack has been especially helpful in giving back to Michigan’s Fourth District. He has had strong involvement with the United Way of Midland, volunteering and serving on the board. His strategic thinking has helped the organization and our community. On behalf of the Fourth Congressional District of Michigan, I am honored today to recognize Jack Telfer for his lifetime of work in media and for his commitment to the Midland community.
03.29.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will require the EPA to base any new rules it writes on scientific research that is available to the public. Currently, the EPA can write and implement rules based on scientific research that is hidden from the public. Today’s legislation would end that practice. Congressman Moolenaar voted for today’s legislation and released the following statement: “Transparency at the EPA is vital to ensuring that Americans continue to breathe clean air and drink clean water. Today’s legislation will ensure that the EPA uses publicly available sound science when it writes regulations to protect clean air and water for all Americans.”
03.17.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1367, empowering the VA to focus on recruiting, hiring and retaining the best employees. The legislation comes after the House passed the VA Accountability First Act on Thursday that would shorten the time it takes for poorly performing employees at the VA to be removed from their jobs. A recent report from the Government Accountability Office found that it can take six months to an entire year to remove a bad VA employee. Legislation similar to the VA Accountability First Act was passed by the House in the last Congress, but it languished in the Senate. Congressman Moolenaar voted for both pieces of legislation this week and released the following statement: “Our veterans deserve the best care and these bills will make it easier for the VA to retain and promote excellent employees, and to remove poorly performing ones who are failing our heroes. The VA received a budget increase this year and these reforms will make sure the VA has the best employees to carry out its critical mission.” ###
03.16.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that ensures veterans will not have their Second Amendment rights taken away by bureaucrats. Current practice at the VA takes away a veteran’s Second Amendment rights if they appoint a fiduciary to handle their financial affairs because the VA reports the veteran as being “mentally incompetent” to the FBI’s National Criminal Background Check System. That designation could result in veterans being blocked from legally purchasing a firearm. A veteran may apply for relief through the VA, putting a bureaucrat at the department in charge of a veteran’s Second Amendment rights. Today’s legislation would end the practice of the VA reporting the name of a veteran as being “mentally incompetent” unless a determination has been made by a judge that such an individual is a danger to themselves or others. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation today and made the following statement: “Americans’ treasure their constitutional rights and the Second Amendment is no exception. There is already a legal process through the courts to prohibit the mentally ill from buying firearms. That decision belongs in the judicial branch, and not in the hands of bureaucrats at the VA, a department that has mistreated so many of our nation’s heroes.” ###
03.13.2017	Congressman John Moolenaar invites all high school students from Michigan's Fourth Congressional District to enter their art in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The winning student from the Fourth District will have his or her art displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year and receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C for an annual event with Congressional Art Competition winners from around the country. Regional winners from the Fourth District will have the opportunity for their art to appear in Congressman Moolenaar's Midland and Cadillac offices. The entry deadline for this year’s contest is April 17 and entries should be delivered to Congressman Moolenaar’s Midland office at 200 East Main Street, Suite 230, Midland, MI 48640. More information on the rules and how to enter the Art Competition is online at https://moolenaar.house.gov/artcompetition. Further questions can also be directed to the Midland office at 989-631-2552. Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District is made up of Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, and parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties.
03.08.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation funding military operations for the rest of the federal government's fiscal year which ends on September 30, 2017. The cost of the legislation is $583.7 billion and it includes full funding for a 2.1 percent pay increase for U.S. troops. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "Our men and women in uniform confront threats abroad so we don't have to face them here at home. This legislation provides them with the equipment they need to win on the battlefield and gives them and their families a well-deserved pay raise."
03.07.2017	The House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee have introduced health care legislation reforming the country's health care system. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement: "I have pledged to support efforts to repeal President Obama's unaffordable health care law and replace it with a new patient-centered system. As I do with all legislation, I will review the bills to see if they meet the priorities of the hardworking residents of my district."
03.06.2017	Today, the Trump Administration announced a new executive order intended to block terrorists from entering the United States. Congressman John Moolenaar made the following statement on today's executive order: "The revised executive order makes important clarifications. These clarifications ensure the executive order does not apply to green card holders, visa holders or anyone already here legally. The order is also temporary and allows for a 120-day review of the vetting process for refugees. This review will strengthen the screening process used to identify and prohibit terrorists from entering our country and allow peaceful refugees to come and seek a better life in America."
03.02.2017	Today, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced he would recuse himself from any current and future investigations into foreign interference in the 2016 election. Congressman John Moolenaar, who called earlier today for Sessions to recuse himself, released the following statement: “Attorney General Sessions’ decision to recuse himself from any current or future investigations into the 2016 presidential election is an important step toward ensuring that the FBI’s investigation is independent and has the trust of the American people.”
03.02.2017	The Justice Department has disclosed that Attorney General Jeff Sessions had contact last year with Russian officials as part of his official duties as a then-member of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement: "The attorney general should have disclosed his contact with Russian officials at his nomination hearing, even though the contact came as part of his work on the Senate Armed Services Committee. He should clarify the comment he made during his hearing and he should recuse himself from oversight of the FBI's investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 election. The FBI has so far led a tremendous investigation and it should continue independently of the attorney general."
02.28.2017	Today, the Trump Administration announced it would begin the process of eliminating the Waters of the U.S. rule that was finalized by the EPA in 2015. The rule has always been strongly opposed by farmers, including those in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. Congressman John Moolenaar has fought against the law in Congress and voted to overturn it in 2015. He released the following statement. “I promised to fight this EPA regulation when I first ran to serve the people of mid and northern Michigan, and today’s decision is a victory for individual property rights and the 15,000 farmers of my district. It is encouraging to see the Trump Administration side with the hardworking farmers on this issue. The final rule from bureaucrats at the EPA went too far, and it could have resulted in agents coming to farmers’ fields to regulate mud puddles and ditches. Farmers are our country’s best conservationists because their well-being depends on the land for a bountiful harvest. “By withdrawing this regulation, the EPA will be better able to focus on its core mission of ensuring clean water and protecting the Great Lakes from invasive species.”
02.07.2017	Today, the United State Senate confirmed Michigan’s own Betsy DeVos to be Secretary of Education. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) welcomed the news and released the following statement: “I am glad a fellow Michigander will serve in the Cabinet. Betsy DeVos is a champion for parents and students, and I congratulate her on her new role as Secretary of Education.”
02.02.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to overturn a rule proposed by the Social Security Administration during the Obama Administration that would deny due process rights and Second Amendment rights to law-abiding citizens. The legislation now goes to the Senate. If it passes the Senate and is signed by the president, the rule proposed by the Social Security Administration will not take effect. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the legislation in the House today and released the following statement: "No hardworking Michigan resident should have their Second Amendment rights and due process rights taken away by unaccountable bureaucrats. Those rights are enshrined in our Constitution and I will always fight to defend them."
01.30.2017	On Friday, the Trump Administration announced an executive order intended to block terrorists from entering the United States. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) issued the following statement: “It is important that our country have screening processes that identify and prohibit terrorists from entering our country. The House passed bipartisan legislation in November of 2015 to put such processes into law. It is important that we secure our border while allowing for an orderly process for law abiding refugees to come to America, the shining city on a hill and a beacon of hope for people around the world. “Additionally, those who have followed the law to earn visas or green cards, especially those who have worked with our military in defense of our nation should not be blocked from entering the country. Defending the American people from threats abroad is the federal government’s primary responsibility and one I take very seriously in my role as a public servant. I hope clarifications will be made to ensure our country is protecting the American people and upholding the values we cherish.”
01.24.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar voted to end taxpayer funding of abortion. H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017, passed the House of Representatives today, 238 to 183, including support from twenty-one women and three Democrats. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement about the legislation while speaking on the House floor: "A child in a mother’s womb is a blessing and Americans expect their tax dollars will never be used to pay to end the life of an innocent child. Today’s legislation will protect taxpayers and, most importantly, our society’s most vulnerable, the unborn." Here is a link to the video of Congressman Moolenaar's remarks.
01.24.2017	Today, President Donald Trump signed an executive order advancing the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congressman John Moolenaar voted for the Keystone XL Pipeline in 2015, along with a bipartisan majority of his colleagues, including 28 Democrats. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement regarding today's news: "I support today's decision. Building Keystone will create good-paying jobs and provide hardworking Americans with a more stable source of energy."
01.13.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed a procedural vote that will allow Congress to proceed with repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, an unaffordable health care law that has created fewer health insurance choices and higher costs for Americans. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in favor of today's legislation and made the following statement: “Today’s vote is a first step toward creating a health care system that puts patients first.”
01.11.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) was named to subcommittees of the House Appropriations Committee. The twelve Appropriations subcommittees are each responsible for writing the funding bills for the departments and agencies that fall under their jurisdiction. Congressman Moolenaar was assigned to the following subcommittees: Labor, Health and Human Services and Education, Financial Services and General Government, and Legislative Branch. "As a member of these subcommittees, I will have oversight of some of most important departments and agencies in the federal government, including the IRS. I will fight to hold them accountable to ensure that every taxpayer dollar is used effectively and that all citizens are treated with respect," said Moolenaar. The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee has oversight of the Department of Education, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Labor. The Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee has oversight of the Treasury Department, the Small Business Administration, and the National Archives. The Legislative Branch Subcommittee has oversight of U.S. Capitol operations including the United States Capitol Police and the Library of Congress. Moolenaar is the first member from Michigan to serve on the House Appropriations Committee since 2011 and the first Michigan Republican to serve on the committee since 2009. ###
01.04.2017	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) was named to the House Appropriations Committee. He is the first member from Michigan to be a member of the committee since 2011 and the first Michigan Republican to serve on the committee since 2009. The Appropriations Committee and its twelve subcommittees are responsible for writing the twelve funding bills that formally set the spending levels for every department, agency and program in the federal budget. "Oversight of government spending is an important responsibility and one that I take very seriously. I will fight to make sure government uses taxpayer dollars wisely, stays within its means, and is accountable to the needs of Michigan’s hardworking families. I look forward to working with the members of the committee on addressing the priorities of our country," said Moolenaar. “We have a historic opportunity to change the size and scope of our government and I look forward to working with Congressman Moolenaar on rigorous oversight that will make every dollar count,” said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen. Moolenaar previously served as the vice-chair of the Appropriations Committee in the Michigan Senate, where he was chairman of the Subcommittee on Community Health. He was also chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on K-12 appropriations in the Michigan House.
12.08.2016	John Glenn, the former astronaut and U.S. senator from Ohio, passed away today. Congressman John Moolenaar, a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, released the following statement: “John Glenn was an American pioneer and a committed public servant. He first served our country in the Navy, then NASA, then the U.S. Senate, and he even went back to space at the incredible age of 77. John Glenn was the first American into space and our efforts to learn more about the solar system will stand on his shoulders forever.”
12.08.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution funding the government through April 28, 2017. The legislation funds the government at current levels and ensures that payments to American troops and seniors will not be interrupted. By extending funding until April 28, the legislation allows the next president and the new Congress to begin working on a federal budget in 2017. The legislation also includes $170 million in funding for Flint water infrastructure that was initially proposed by Congressman John Moolenaar and Congressman Dan Kildee in September. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation today and released the following statement: "I supported this critical legislation to keep the government open and to provide certainty to our troops and our seniors. I am glad this legislation included much needed federal aid to Flint to rebuild its water infrastructure. There was a failure in Flint by all levels of government and today the federal government does its part to assist in the city's recovery."
12.02.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. This important legislation sets defense policy for the year and includes a pay raise for U.S. soldiers. The pay raise of 2.1 percent is the largest pay increase in six years. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “Our troops make sacrifices every day to keep us safe. They have earned a pay raise and this legislation is a small part of thanking them and their families for their service to our nation.”
11.30.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation – commonly known as the 21st Century Cures Act – that will accelerate research for some of the most important cures and treatments the American people will need for years to come. The 21st Century Cures Act removes federal red tape that has hampered innovation in medicine. It includes $4.8 billion for the National Institutes of Health, $1.8 billion for Vice President Joe Biden’s cancer research initiative and $1.6 billion for brain disease research including Alzheimer’s. The legislation enjoyed broad bipartisan support in today’s vote. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) is a co-sponsor of the 21st Century Cures Act and voted for it today. He released the following statement: "I want to thank Chairman Fred Upton for his leadership on this important legislation. Nearly all Americans know a friend or loved one who has battled cancer or chronic illness. The 21st Century Cures Act increases funding for research, eliminates red tape and empowers the smartest medical minds to bring the best treatments and cures to patients as soon as possible.”
11.16.2016	This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to crack down on texting scams. Laws that prohibit scam artists from spoofing telephone numbers on telephone calls are already on the books. The legislation passed this week makes it a crime to spoof telephone numbers on text messages. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation. "It is important to update our laws as technology changes. This modernized law will ensure that criminals who use text messages to steal from the vulnerable will be fully prosecuted under the law," said Moolenaar. The legislation passed the House on an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote and it now goes to the Senate.
09.28.2016	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act with overwhelming support. The legislation included a bipartisan amendment proposed by Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) and Congressman Dan Kildee (D-Flint Township). The amendment makes Flint eligible for $170 million in funding to rebuild its water infrastructure. The amendment passed the House on a 284-141 vote. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement after the House passed the legislation: "This is a step forward for Flint and the rebuilding of its water infrastructure. This legislation will help Flint heal and I want to thank the entire Michigan delegation and House leadership for their support of this legislation." Speaker of the House Paul Ryan offered praise for Congressman Moolenaar's leadership: "John has always used his leadership to fight for Michigan residents. His dedication and efforts to work across the aisle helped secure a responsible solution to help the citizens of Flint." The legislation co-sponsored by Congressmen Moolenaar and Kildee was passed as part of a larger agreement that is on track to avoid a government shutdown that would have occurred at 12:00 AM on October 1st. Later tonight, the House is expected to pass bipartisan legislation that will avoid a shutdown and fund the federal government through December 9, 2016.
09.13.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The legislation extends the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act. The Act first became law in 2006 and today's legislation extends the Act through 2022. Today's bill also reforms the Act and one of the new reforms will allow states to set aside up to 15 percent of funding to assist students in rural communities. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) supported the legislation and released the following statement: “Today’s legislation supports students in mid and northern Michigan who want to learn the skills that are essential for good-paying jobs. Our region has great high school and community college programs that support skilled trades and this legislation will help them train students for the opportunities of the future.” Delta College, Ferris State University, Mid Michigan Community College, and Montcalm Community College have all received grants through the Perkins Act. Additionally, communities in all 15 counties of Michigan's Fourth Congressional District have career centers and high schools that are part of the Michigan Center for Career and Technical Education. A complete list of participants is here: https://ctenavigator.org/schools
09.13.2016	Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement on the passing of State Representative Peter Pettalia: "I am saddened by the passing of State Representative Peter Pettalia. He was a great friend and colleague in the state legislature and I enjoyed working with him to serve our mutual constituents on the Sunrise Side. I will miss his engaging sense of humor and generous spirit. Michigan is better because of his commitment to public service. My prayers are for his wife Karen, his family and friends during this tragic time."
09.06.2016	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act of 2016. The legislation ensures that sexual assault survivors in federal criminal cases have the right to a sexual assault evidence kit. It also allows victims to request that their kit be preserved so charges can be brought in the future. Congressman Moolenaar voted for the legislation and made the following statement: "The Survivors' Bill of Rights Act is a commonsense reform that aids victims of sexual assault nationwide. This legislation will help victims see justice done and I urge the Senate to pass it."
08.10.2016	Today, the Food and Nutrition Service at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that it has approved the Michigan Department of Education’s request for additional funding so that more fresh fruits and vegetables can be purchased by Flint schools. An additional $158,750 in funding has been approved for Flint Schools. Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland) is a member of the U.S. House Agriculture Committee and met with USDA officials earlier this year about nutrition issues in Flint. He released the following statement: “I welcome the Agriculture Department’s decision to approve additional funding for Flint schools. The funds will put more fresh fruits and vegetables on the plates of Flint’s schoolchildren and help alleviate the effects of lead exposure. This is a step forward for Flint and its future.”
07.27.2016	Today in Midland, Congressman John Moolenaar presented Ronald Hnizda of Roscommon with service medals he earned for his Army service in Vietnam. Hnizda received The Bronze Star Medal, The National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with Two Bronze Service Stars, the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device, the Marksman Badge with the Rifle Bar, and the Vietnam War 50th Anniversary Commemorative Pin. Hnizda was drafted into the Army in February of 1970 and he served through December of 1971, having achieved the rank of sergeant. Hnizda received the Bronze Star Medal for his work in Vietnam designing a computer system that assigned pilots to the cities where their skills were needed the most. He used skills that he learned studying computer science at Ferris State University, which he graduated from in 1969. The certificate accompanying the Bronze Star Medal commends Hnizda for his "exemplary performance of duty against hostile force" and says that he represented "the finest traditions of military service." Veterans who have not received awards they earned for their service to our country are encouraged to contact Congressman Moolenaar's office for assistance at (989) 631-2552. (Congressman Moolenaar presents military service medals to Vietnam veteran Ronald Hnizda of Roscommon. Pictured from left to right are Cheryl Hnizda, who is Ronald's wife, Ronald Hnizda, and Congressman Moolenaar.) (Vietnam veteran Ronald Hnizda with wife and grandkids, and Congressman John Moolenaar.) (The certificate accompanying the Bronze Star Medal.)
07.14.2016	Today, The Moving Wall, a half-size replica of the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington D.C., begins a visit to Sanford that ends on Monday, July 18. Congressman John Moolenaar released the following statement welcoming the wall to Sanford: “It is an honor to have The Moving Wall in our community and it serves as a powerful reminder about the price that has been paid to defend freedom. Our veterans know more than anyone about the ultimate sacrifice that was made by the men and women listed on The Moving Wall. We thank them and their families for all they have done for our country.”
07.11.2016	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman John Moolenaar's legislation reauthorizing the National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST was founded in 1901. It is a vital partner for America’s technology-advanced industries and is widely recognized as an authority of measurements and standards around the world. Congressman Moolenaar's legislation, the NIST Improvement Act of 2016, requires independent reviews of NIST laboratory programs, makes changes to its educational and outreach efforts, and improves its Industrial Technical Services. Congressman Moolenaar released the following statement: "This legislation reauthorizes NIST so it can continue to provide small manufacturers like those here in Michigan with the expertise and advice they need when investing in new technologies crucial to the competitiveness of Michigan companies and their workers. NIST maintains measures and standards for American commerce and it conducts research that enhances our nation’s technology, our economic security and our quality of life."
06.22.2016	Today, President Barack Obama signed into law the first overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act in 40 years. The legislation passed the House of Representatives on May 24 on a 403-12 vote and it was approved by the Senate on June 7 by voice vote. Congressmen John Moolenaar (R-MI) and Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), the co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Chemistry Caucus, supported the legislation in the House and released the following statement praising the new law: “With President Obama's signature today, America’s Toxic Substances Control Act is updated for the first time in 40 years. This is a tremendous bipartisan accomplishment and it represents what can be done when leaders in Washington work together. This new law strengthens environmental protections for all Americans, recognizes the value of more than 800,000 people employed in the chemical industry and keeps America as the world leader in research and innovation.” ###
06.21.2016	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation introduced by Congressman John Moolenaar (R-Midland). The Native Americans Health Savings Improvement Act (H.R. 5452) improves access to federal Health Savings Accounts for Native Americans who receive services at Indian Health Service (IHS) facilities. Under current law, Native Americans are not able to contribute to their own Health Savings Accounts for three months after receiving care at an Indian Health Service facility. The waiting period is eliminated by Congressman Moolenaar’s legislation. Congressman Moolenaar released the following statement: “This meaningful legislation will eliminate a burdensome regulation that prevents Native Americans from saving their money for their own health care choices and it will benefit Native Americans in Michigan's Fourth Congressional District. "No one likes to endure a long wait at the doctor's office and no one should to have wait three months before being allowed to contribute to their own HSA. “Eliminating this unnecessary government burden promotes health savings and patient-centered care for all Native Americans.” Here is a link to video of Congressman Moolenaar's remarks on the House floor about his legislation: https://youtu.be/Ma_83QPZ4Kw ###
05.26.2016	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar led a bipartisan letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack regarding the U.S. Department of Agriculture's proposed rule regarding practices for organic poultry and livestock. The "National Organic Program; Organic Livestock and Poultry Practices" was printed in the Federal Register on April 13. On behalf of their constituents, the members ask the department to extend its comment period on the rule and to provide a more comprehensive economic assessment of its impact. The comment period is currently scheduled to end on June 13. The letter to Secretary Vilsack is signed by 24 other Members of Congress. In addition to Congressman Moolenaar, the following members signed the letter: Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA) Congressman Justin Amash (R-MI) Congressman Dan Benishek (R-MI) Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (D-GA) Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) Congressman Mike Bost (R-IL) Congressman Ken Buck (R-CO) Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) Congressman Chris Collins (R-NY) Congressman Jeff Denham (R-CA) Congressman Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Congressman Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Congressman Mike Kelly (R-PA) Congressman Steve King (R-IA) Congresswoman Mia Love (R-UT) Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK) Congresswoman Candice Miller (R-MI) Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Congressman Glenn 'GT' Thompson (R-PA) Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) Congressman Tim Walberg (R-MI) Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Congressman Kevin Yoder (R-KS) A copy of the letter is below: The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack Secretary of Agriculture U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack, As Members of the House of Representatives, we have heard from numerous constituents raising concerns regarding the short time frame for public comment, as well as the substance of the recently-announced U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) proposed rule titled “National Organic Program; Organic Livestock and Poultry Practices.” First, we ask that you extend the public comment period for this recently announced rule. Second, given animal health, food safety and economic concerns associated with this proposed rule, we have several questions that we expect to be fully addressed by the agency prior to concluding any public comment period on the rule as proposed. Despite claims by the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), it is clear that the economic impact of this proposed rule would be significant. Egg farmers have invested significant capital (in some cases, tens of millions of dollars per farm) to meet the current organic requirement. Nevertheless, AMS is advocating a rule that many of these businesses could not comply with. AMS even acknowledges this in the summary of the proposed rule wherein the agency reports that outdoor access measures would lead to a reduction of 43 percent of current organic layers – and says that “up to 90 percent of organic aviaries could exit to the cage-free market.” If this is the intention of the National Organic Program, then there must be an acknowledgement that this is in fact a major rule. USDA based its economic assumptions on old, and in some cases, incomplete data. USDA acknowledges in its assessment that available data used to develop this rule is incomplete. To provide a more comprehensive and accurate assessment of the economic impact of this rule, we expect answers to the following questions be made available and open to public comment as part of the proposed rule. Specifically: What is the current (calendar year 2016) estimate of total organic production of organic eggs and broilers? In instances where state government data is not available, can an estimate be prepared using available academic or industry resources? What is the potential impact of this rule on markets for: 1) organic corn, 2) organic soybeans, 3) organic wheat and 4) organic dry beans? What percentage of current U.S. organic egg production would not qualify under the National Organic Program if this rule is implemented? Would there be a shortfall of organic egg production for the current retail organic egg market? If so, please provide an analysis of the scope of that shortfall over the next 10 years, as well as an estimate of price impacts. In addition to the economic and supply chain concerns outlined above, we recognize that States have taken extraordinary measures to ensure avian animal health and prevent recurrences of avian diseases (in the case of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza) or the introduction of new avian diseases in the United States. Please answer the following questions related to food safety and animal health: Studies undertaken by North Carolina State University found the mortality rate for free-range egg laying hens ranged from 13.5 to 30.7 percent. The new rule appears to require layers to spend time in a free-range environment, yet USDA estimates that layer mortality would increase to only 8 percent under the new rule. What data did USDA use to produce this estimate? Please explain the discrepancy between USDA’s mortality rate findings and those of North Carolina State University. Did USDA consult with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to ensure that this rule will not interfere with producers’ ability to comply with FDA’s Egg Safety Rule and the biosecurity provisions mandated within to control Salmonella? What, if any regulatory certainty will be offered to organic egg producers regarding compliance with this rule? Did FDA, USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), and AMS conduct research on the potential for higher rates of egg adulteration due to toxins commonly found in an outdoor environment? If so, what were their findings? Given the high stakes for U.S. egg and poultry producers of preventing another disease outbreak similar to the HPAI epidemic, sufficient time must be taken to fully consider the animal health impacts of the proposed rule. We greatly appreciate your attention to this important matter.
05.23.2016	Congressman John Moolenaar (R-MI) and Congressman Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), co-chairs of the newly-formed Congressional Chemistry Caucus, announced their support for the TSCA legislation that is expected to be on the House floor this week. “As the co-chairs of the House Chemistry Caucus, we have been strong proponents of Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) reform throughout the legislative process and are excited that the House-Senate agreement improves the current TSCA law. We are pleased to support this reform legislation and encourage others to do so. The agreement is supported by the chemical industry and environmental organizations, because all sides have come together to find common ground and compromise in this legislation. “TSCA is a vital law that will ensure that the new chemicals and materials developed every day will not have a toxic effect on human health. We are pleased that the new agreement will bring stricter scrutiny for new chemicals and a reasonable balance for states in the review process. Chemistry is vital for our quality of life and economic growth, and reforming TSCA is essential to guaranteeing that the chemical and materials industry in the U.S. will continue to grow in a manner consistent with our human health and environment.” The bipartisan Congressional Chemistry Caucus has 25 members.
05.05.2016	Congressman John Moolenaar is the author of the Safe Water and Nutrition Access Act, which was introduced last month. The legislation makes Flint eligible for federal aid for water infrastructure and nutrition. President Obama specifically mentioned the need for more supermarkets in underserved areas of Flint during his remarks at Northwestern High School yesterday. "Here in Flint there are whole neighborhoods that do not have a supermarket. We will have to figure out how to get supermarkets in those communities," said Obama. Congressman Moolenaar made the following statement regarding President Obama's remarks: “In his remarks, President Obama highlighted the need for greater nutrition access in Flint. I heard about this issue in my meetings with city residents and I have introduced legislation to address the problem. This legislation makes financing available to bring greater nutrition access to Flint. I hope more members of Congress will support the legislation and help address this important public health concern." Nutrition Access in the Safe Water and Nutrition Access Act Under the Safe Water and Nutrition Access Act, Flint qualifies for $5 million in financing that can be used to bring outlets for nutritious food to underserved parts of the city. Flint would also have access to $5 million in loans that can be used to distribute locally or regionally produced food.
05.03.2016	Natalie Laurin, a student at Herbert Henry Dow High School, is the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Michigan's Fourth Congressional District. Congressman John Moolenaar made the announcement on Monday at the Midland Center for the Arts. Laurin's piece, "Caleb," is an acrylic painting. The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Laurin will be invited to attend a reception with her fellow winners from around the country on June 23rd in Washington, D.C. "We had impressive participation from many talented artists for this year's competition. I look forward to seeing Natalie's work at the Capitol," said Moolenaar. "I am very happy to have won and am honored that my art will be displayed at the Capitol," said Natalie Laurin. Three regional winners have the opportunity to have their art displayed in Congressman Moolenaar's district offices in Midland and Cadillac. The three regional winners are Jessica Brooks from Herbert Henry Dow High School, Hailie Peitsch from Freeland High School and Shelby Stoneman from Ithaca High School.
04.27.2016	Today, Congressman John Moolenaar (R-MI) and Congressman Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) announced the formation of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus. The Congressional Chemistry Caucus will serve as an informal group of Members dedicated to issues related to the transformative science of chemistry. The mission of the bipartisan caucus is to educate Members of Congress and the public about the benefits of chemistry in today’s society and the importance of sound science in public policy. The Caucus will also strive to promote and advance policies aimed at encouraging today’s students to become the chemists of tomorrow. Congressman Moolenaar and Congressman Lipinski issued the following statement: “Every day, Americans use products that have been created and improved by the science of chemistry. Chemistry has made America a world leader in research and innovation and it employs more than 800,000 Americans with good-paying jobs. As co-chairs of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus, we are honored that 12 colleagues have joined us in a bipartisan effort to form the nucleus of this caucus. “It is our hope that this caucus will be a good resource for getting the word out about different aspects of chemistry and the chemical industry, while also increasing the public’s understanding of chemistry and promoting the importance of STEM education.” Co-Chair Backgrounds Moolenaar has a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Hope College in Holland, Michigan. He is a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee and has supported STEM education initiatives as a member of Congress and previously in the Michigan legislature. Lipinski is also a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. As a former teacher, he has pushed for improvements in STEM education throughout his career. Members of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus The other members of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus are Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Congressman Mo Brooks (R-AL), Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA), Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), Congressman Jeff Denham (R-CA), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Bill Foster (D-IL), Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY), Congressman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Congressman Mark Takano (D-CA), Congressman Tim Walberg (R-MI), and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (R-IN).
04.22.2016	Congressman John Moolenaar has introduced the Safe Water and Nutrition Access Act (H.R. 5013), to provide Flint and communities across the country with water infrastructure and nutrition assistance. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Moolenaar is working to find ways to help Flint and communities across the country. The legislation is co-sponsored by the following members of the Michigan delegation: Congressman Dan Benishek, Congressman Mike Bishop, Congressman Bill Huizenga, Congresswoman Candice Miller, Congressman David Trott, Congressman Fred Upton and Congressman Tim Walberg. Descriptions of the programs in the legislation and a statement from Congressman Moolenaar are below. Flint Emergency and Imminent Community Water Assistance Grants: The legislation makes Flint eligible for $20 million in emergency water infrastructure grants. These grants are awarded to communities for assistance with the construction of new water sources, treatment facilities and waterline extensions. Healthy Food Financing Initiative: The legislation makes Flint eligible for $5 million in financing that can be used to bring outlets for nutritious food to underserved parts of the city. Locally or Regionally Produced Agricultural Food Products: The legislation makes Flint eligible for $5 million in loans that can be used to distribute locally or regionally produced food. Rural Communities Emergency and Imminent Community Water Assistance Grants: The bill provides $30 million for grants to rural communities for assistance with the construction of new water sources, treatment facilities and waterline extensions. Water and Waste Disposal Technical Assistance and Training Grants: The legislation provides $5 million in grants to improve the treatment of water in rural communities. Rural Water and Wastewater Circuit Rider Program: The legislation provides $5 million in funding to help rural wastewater utilities with operational improvement and leak detection. Statement from Congressman Moolenaar "As a Mid Michigan resident it is important to me to find ways to help rural communities in Michigan along with our neighbors in Flint. "I have visited Flint and met with families, elected officials, and researchers in the community. I have listened to them about the issues they are facing and as a member of the Agriculture Committee, I worked on nutrition. It's hard to raise a family without safe drinking water and harder still when you have to travel a long distance to get healthy food for your kids. This legislation makes Flint eligible for $10 million in financing that will help with food access in underserved areas of the community. "Rural communities in my district and across Michigan also have water safety concerns and this legislation eliminates barriers to federal grants for water infrastructure financing and technical assistance. "This legislation is a step forward that I hope will bring greater nutrition access to Flint and safer drinking water to all our communities."
04.19.2016	On Wednesday, May 4, Congressman John Moolenaar will present veterans of the Vietnam War from Michigan’s 4th Congressional District with the Vietnam War 50th Anniversary Commemorative Lapel Pin as a thank-you and lasting keepsake for their service and sacrifice for our nation. Pins are available to any veteran who served during the Vietnam War years. The 4th Congressional District is made up of 15 counties: All of Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, and parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties. Details of the event are provided below: Date: Wednesday, May 4, 2016 Time: 1:00 PM Location: Finch Fieldhouse at Central Michigan University 1200 South Franklin Street Mount Pleasant, Michigan 48858 To RSVP for the event, veterans should go to https://moolenaar.house.gov/vietnamveterans or call Representative Moolenaar's Midland office at 989-631-2552.
03.31.2016	Today, the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Agency announced that Capital Region International Airport will be able to offer a direct route to Reagan Washington National Airport. The route will be served by American Airlines. The route was previously served by Sun Country Airlines. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) represents Clinton and Shiawassee counties and issued the following statement: "This time of year, many families from mid and northern Michigan visit Washington, D.C. so I know there is strong support for connecting Michigan's capital to our nation's capital. This route generates millions of dollars in economic activity for our state and today's decision will benefit Michigan families and businesses. I am glad the Department of Transportation and the FAA decided to restore direct service between Capital Region International Airport and Reagan Washington National Airport in response to the concerns I raised along with Congressman Bishop and Congressman Walberg."
03.23.2016	Today, Bates Footwear announced it has won a new five-year, $30.5 million contract from the U.S. government to manufacture temperate weather boots for the U.S. Marines. The boots will be made at Bates' facility in Big Rapids. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “I congratulate all the hardworking men and women at Bates for winning the Marines' contract. This is wonderful news for Big Rapids and for manufacturing in Michigan. Marines have been wearing Bates products for decades and this contract means they will be wearing the world’s best boots for another five years.”
03.15.2016	Today, House Republicans released their budget for the fiscal year that begins on October 1, 2016, and runs through September 30, 2017. The budget proposal sets the top-line targets for government funding in the next fiscal year and provides the guideline for specific funding to departments, agencies and programs in the Congressional appropriations process. As a member of the House Budget Committee, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “The national debt is over $19 trillion and the American people are tired of Washington spending money with no regard for the country’s future. “The president’s budget proposal never balances and it raises taxes on hardworking Michigan taxpayers by 22 cents per gallon of gas. I oppose the president’s plan. “I support the conservative budget released today because it moves our country toward a sustainable fiscal future. The budget balances, keeps the promises that have been made to our seniors and improves our national security. It reduces spending in Washington and leaves more money where it belongs – in the pockets of hardworking Americans.”
03.15.2016	Today, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigated the Flint Water Crisis and heard testimony from officials and experts on the crisis. The witnesses were former EPA Region Five Administrator Susan Hedman, former Flint Emergency Manager Darnell Earley, former Flint Mayor Dayne Walling, and Virginia Tech Professor Marc Edwards, an expert on Flint’s water crisis. In his opening presentation, House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz presented an email from EPA Region Five Water Division Branch Chief Debbie Baltazar to her colleagues in which Baltazar said, “I’m not so sure Flint is the community we want to go out on a limb for.” In follow-up questioning, Chairman Chaffetz asked Hedman if anyone at the EPA did anything wrong. She replied, “I don’t think anyone at EPA did anything wrong.” Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) visited Flint this past Saturday (pictures) and released the following statement: “I was in Flint on Saturday and I heard from residents about the struggle they are facing because of this crisis. I spoke with Melissa Mays, and she shared with me how much she appreciated me reading one of her quotes to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy when I questioned her last month. “The people of Flint want to know that someone is listening to them and it’s clear the EPA did not do that. It is disgraceful that an EPA official would say they do not want to go out on a limb for Flint. It is the EPA’s job to protect all Americans. “Susan Hedman repeatedly refused to admit that anyone at the EPA did anything wrong. As I pointed out in my questioning last month, the EPA had the power under the Safe Drinking Act to warn the public about Flint’s water. It failed to do so. “There is nothing courageous about Susan Hedman refusing to admit responsibility and Administrator McCarthy should step up and admit responsibility for her agency’s failures in the crisis. “I thank Chairman Chaffetz for visiting Flint on Saturday and for his leadership on this investigation.” Rep. John Moolenaar questions EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy on February 11. She called Susan Hedman's resignation, "courageous." Click the picture to see video. Go here to see pictures of Rep. Moolenaar in Flint on Saturday.
02.18.2016	Representative John Moolenaar invites all high school students from Michigan's Fourth Congressional District to enter their art in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The winning student will have his or her art displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year and receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C for an event with other Congressional Art Competition winners from around the country. Regional winners from the Fourth District will have the opportunity for their art to appear in Rep. Moolenaar's Midland and Cadillac offices. The entry deadline for this year’s contest is April 15. Entries should be delivered to Representative Moolenaar’s district office at 200 East Main Street, Suite 230, Midland, MI 48640. All entries must include a completed Student Information and Release Form. More information is online at https://moolenaar.house.gov/artcompetition. Further questions can also be directed to Representative Moolenaar’s Midland office at 989-631-2552. Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District is made up of Clare, Clinton, Gladwin, Gratiot, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Missaukee, Ogemaw, Osceola, Roscommon, Shiawassee, and Wexford counties, and parts of Montcalm and Saginaw counties.
02.11.2016	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy about the agency’s failures in the Flint water crisis. In February of 2015, officials at the EPA were contacted by Flint residents about water quality problems. For months afterward, the EPA did not inform the public about the risks of drinking Flint water. While the EPA and the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality fought over the necessity of corrosion control, the EPA could have informed the general public about the health risk in Flint using power granted to it under Section 1431 of the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974. Section 1431 says: “the Administrator, upon receipt of information that a contaminant which is present in or is likely to enter a public water system or an underground source of drinking water, or that there is a threatened or potential terrorist attack (or other intentional act designed to disrupt the provision of safe drinking water or to impact adversely the safety of drinking water supplied to communities and individuals), which may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons, and that appropriate State and local authorities have not acted to protect the health of such persons, may take such actions as he may deem necessary in order to protect the health of such persons.” Administrator McCarthy also praised EPA Region Five Administrator Susan Hedman and called her February 1 resignation “courageous.” Hedman resigned after she failed to notify the public about the risks of Flint drinking water. In the final minute of questioning, Representative Moolenaar asked Administrator McCarthy when her agency would release Hedman’s emails on the Flint water crisis. “When can we expect to see the documentation and communications from Region Five?” asked Moolenaar. Administrator McCarthy said she did not know and provided no schedule for the release of the documents. Today’s questioning took place during a House Agriculture Committee hearing. Here is video of Representative Moolenaar’s questioning:
02.10.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act. The bill passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation will require the EPA to notify the public when enforceable requirements for lead in drinking water are exceeded if a state or a local water system fails to do so. The bill also requires consumer notification when water being transported in a lead pipe is sufficiently corrosive that it could leach lead into public drinking water. In Flint, the EPA knew as early as last April that Flint water was not being treated with corrosion controls. Instead of informing the public, the EPA kept quiet and silenced an employee who tried to speak out. The legislation passed today will prevent that from happening in the future. Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation and spoke in support of it on the House floor. Here is video of his remarks. A transcript of his remarks is below. ----------------------------- Rep. John Moolenaar: I want to join my Michigan colleagues as a co-sponsor of this legislation and thank Representative Kildee and Chairman Upton for bringing this legislation forward. Our hearts go out to the people of Flint who are enduring so much and persevering during this time. It's heartwarming to see the way people across the country have come together and supported the people of Flint. The sad thing is that this situation could have been prevented, and should have been prevented. The legislation we're discussing today here in the House of Representatives is because of failures in local, state and federal government. And the fact is that the officials at the EPA knew last April, 10 months ago, that the Flint Utilities Department was not using corrosion controls, putting water safety at risk. Instead of alerting the public, the EPA stayed silent. When an EPA employee tried to speak out, he was silenced. The EPA deferred to a state agency – the MDEQ – which also failed to tell the public. Last month, the EPA administrator sent a memo creating a formal policy on the importance of assessing and responding to critical public health issues. That the administrator had to remind employees of the importance of public health speaks to the misplaced priority of the EPA and its officials. So today, we have to pass a law requiring the agency to notify the public when water quality is unsafe and constitutes a public health threat. This legislation is a reminder to the EPA that it needs to focus on its core responsibility with safe drinking water using its authority, rather than overreaching outside of its jurisdiction. This is an example of one community who has been adversely affected. Flint is not alone in this challenge and this has ramifications all across our country. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and I yield back.
02.09.2016	Today, President Obama released his budget proposal for the 2017 fiscal year which runs from October 1, 2016 through September 30, 2017. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement: "With the people's trust in government near historic lows, the president's $4.1 trillion budget raises taxes on hardworking Americans without addressing the government's spending problem. His budget never balances and his plan to raise taxes on gasoline would hurt families in my district, especially those in rural communities. I strongly oppose the president’s budget. "I look forward to working on a budget that balances, creates jobs and keeps the promises made to our seniors and members of the armed services."
01.13.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed a resolution of disapproval of the Obama Administration's Waters of the U.S. rule using the Congressional Review Act. The Congressional Review Act allows Congress to review and vote on regulations made by federal agencies. The bipartisan legislation passed the House, 253-166. It was previously passed by the Senate and now goes to the president. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in supported of the legislation and released the following statement: "Today, I stood with the 15,000 farmers in my district and continued to fight against the Obama Administration's executive overreach. Farmers across Michigan are worried about this rule which would regulate ditches and puddles on their fields. Federal courts and a bipartisan majority of the people’s representatives have opposed this rule. The executive branch should rescind it and give farmers more certainty for the future."
01.06.2016	Today, the House of Representatives voted to repeal President Obama's unaffordable health care law. The law was passed in 2010 and the American people have opposed it everyday since. The repeal legislation also defunds Planned Parenthood and redirects the funding to federally qualified health centers, including the 13 in Michigan's Fourth District that serve more than 154,000 patients. The repeal legislation previously passed the Senate and now goes to President Obama. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) spoke in favor of repeal on the House floor. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mr. Speaker, Today, we will vote to repeal the president’s health care law. It’s a law that the American people have opposed from the very beginning when it was passed without bipartisan support. The American people opposed it even when the president promised they could keep their coverage and their doctor, and they also opposed it when that promise was broken. They opposed it when the law taxed their health insurance and the medical devices that help them live longer, healthier lives. Today, the American people still oppose the president’s health care law because it makes them pay higher premiums for policies with deductibles that are too expensive. That is why today, six years after it was passed, we’re voting to send a repeal of this law to the president’s desk. This repeal will save the government $500 billion dollars over the next ten years and empower people to make their own health care choices. Thank you.
12.18.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation appropriating federal funding through the rest of the federal government’s fiscal year which ends on September 30, 2016. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation and released the following statement: “Today’s compromise legislation provides $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to protect the Lakes and the $7 billion economy they support. In February, the Obama Administration proposed a $50 million cut for the GLRI and I questioned the budget director about this issue. Through the bipartisan work of members from Great Lakes states, this proposed cut has been reversed. “In recognition of the EPA’s overreach with the Waters of the U.S. rule and other burdensome regulations, this bill cuts EPA spending by $452 million. This freezes the EPA’s staffing level at the lowest point in 25 years and forces the agency to focus on its environmental cleanup mission instead of imposing more unnecessary regulations on Michigan residents.” “The legislation strengthens the federal government’s commitment to national security. It increases funding for border security and for protecting the nation’s electric grid from cyberattacks. It also makes changes to the visa waiver program and requires visitors to America who have traveled to terrorism hotspots to undergo rigorous background checks before entering the country.” Highlights of the Legislation The legislation: Provides full funding, $100 million, for the Facility for Rare Isotope Beam research at Michigan State University. Provides $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Provides $7.9 million in funding for the Fish and Wildlife Service to continue its efforts against the spread of Asian carp. Cuts funding for the EPA by $452 million. Prohibits the EPA from enforcing the Clean Water Act on farmers. Holds the EPA’s staffing level at the lowest point in 25 years. Prohibits the EPA from regulating lead content in ammunition and fishing tackle. Provides $2.7 billion, an increase of $173 million, for processing the disability claims backlog at the VA. This will support 770 additional staff members to process claims. Expands whistleblower protections for VA medical staff to report wrongdoing. Increases funding to protect the American electric grid from cyberattacks. Reforms the visa waiver program to protect Americans from terrorists trying to enter the country. Reauthorizes funding for the 9/11 First Responders Program which provides health benefits to first responders, residents and survivors of 9/11. Provides a $2 billion increase to the National Institutes for Health for research on cancer and Alzheimer’s. Delays the Affordable Care Act’s tax on high-cost employer-sponsored insurance (the Cadillac tax) until 2020. Delays the menu labeling requirements of the Affordable Care Act, which would be a burden on small businesses, until 2017. Repeals the country of origin labeling law that was a burden to farmers. Maintains all federal pro-life policies including a prohibition on federal funds paying for abortion.
12.17.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed tax relief. The legislation makes permanent a number of tax cuts for hardworking Americans. The bipartisan vote was 318-109. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation and released the following statement: “There has been too much uncertainty caused by the complicated tax code. This legislation provides tax relief for Michigan farmers by permanently extending Section 179 rules for expensing write-offs. This allows farmers to plan their finances with more certainty. “The legislation also permanently extends the research and development tax credit that leading Michigan companies use to make innovative new products that are sold around the world. This will reduce the tax burden for Michigan businesses and create more jobs for Michigan residents.” Highlights of the Legislation The legislation: Permanently extends Section 179 provisions that farmers use to value their equipment. Permanently extends the research and development tax credit. Permanently extends tax-free distributions from individual retirement for charitable purposes. Delays the Affordable Care Act’s tax on medical devices until 2018. Allows individuals to use money in their 529 College Savings Plans to pay for a computer, an essential tool for student success. Extends the work opportunity tax credit through 2019, which incentivizes employers to hire qualified long-term unemployed individuals, including veterans. Allows for individuals to deduct larger charitable contributions made to agricultural research organizations.
12.10.2015	Today, President Obama signed into law Republican-led, conservative education reforms that put American students first. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a former charter school administrator, voted for the legislation when it was in the House last week. He welcomed news of the president's signature and released the following statement: "I voted for this new law because it prohibits the federal government from incentivizing or coercing states into adopting Common Core. The bill signed into law today repeals federal mandates and it provides more flexibility to parents and teachers to do what is best for students."
12.03.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. This legislation funds the Highway Trust Fund for the next five years and restores cuts to crop insurance that were made in the budget agreement that was passed in October. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for today's legislation and made the following statement: “Restoring crop insurance cuts is vital for the 15,000 farm operators of Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. Weather can ruin an entire year of crops and without insurance some family farms could lose everything. I am glad we could fix this issue that was created in the October budget agreement and also pass funding for our nation’s critical highway infrastructure needs.” ###
12.03.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. The legislation is a major modernization of U.S. energy policy to reflect America’s energy abundance and its new role as the world’s leading producer of oil and to protect our nation’s critical energy infrastructure. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in favor of the legislation and made the following statement: “The United States is the leading producer of oil and natural gas and today’s legislation continues that progress. The bill passed today protects our electric grid from terrorism, cyberattacks, and weather events that could cause prolonged power outages. These reforms will benefit Michigan residents by helping to keep energy prices low for years to come.”
11.24.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representative passed H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015, on a bipartisan vote, 289 to 137. The legislation will require additional certifications for refugees to resettle in the United States. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for the legislation and made the following statement: “The legislation passed today will require the Obama Administration to collect the intelligence necessary to complete stringent refugee background checks in order to ensure terrorists are not using the refugee program to enter the United States. Defending the American people from threats abroad is the federal government’s primary responsibility and one I take very seriously in my role as a public servant. This legislation upholds our values as a compassionate nation and defends our citizens against a possible threat.”
11.06.2015	Today, the Obama Administration announced that it would not approve the building of the Keystone XL Pipeline. The project had been under federal review for more than seven years and had the support of business and labor organizations. Additionally, the U.S. Department of State concluded that the project would have minimal environmental impact. Earlier this year, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for legislation that supported building the pipeline. He released the following statement today: "Today, the Obama Administration rejected a project that would have supported good-paying jobs for hardworking Americans. Republicans and Democrats from across the country supported the Keystone XL Pipeline because it would have improved our nation's energy independence without raising taxes or adding to our debt. Today's announcement is a disappointment and it could result in higher energy prices in the future."
10.22.2015	Today, President Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act. The legislation was passed with bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress, receiving a 270-156 vote in the House and a 70-27 vote in the Senate. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) supported the NDAA legislation in the House and opposes the president’s veto. He released the following statement: “This bill empowers our military overseas and provides for troops and their families here at home. Unfortunately, the president is vetoing the bill over an item that isn't even in it. He wants to take more money from hardworking taxpayers and give it to bureaucrats at the IRS and the EPA before signing a bill that provides for our national defense. That’s wrong and Democrats in the House and Senate should vote to override the president’s veto of this bipartisan legislation that protects America’s national security.” -30-
10.09.2015	Today, the Sixth Circuit of Appeals issued a stay temporarily blocking the Environmental Protection Agency from implementing its overreaching Waters of the U.S. Rule until further litigation can be resolved. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) issued the following statement: “In hearing from farmers across the district, I know many were worried that this overreaching rule from the EPA would interfere in their daily operations. Today’s court decision is a victory for them. "I hope that the EPA will end the legal uncertainty for farmers and scrap the rule. The agency can then focus on protecting the Great Lakes from invasive species, including Asian carp, so that the Lakes and the $7 billion economy they support are there for future generations."
10.09.2015	Today, the House Budget Committee advanced legislation to repeal parts of the Affordable Care Act. The legislation is part of the budget reconciliation process, which allows it to advance through the U.S. Senate with support from a simple majority. It is not subject to a Senate filibuster. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) supported the bill and released the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act is unaffordable. Our country is over $18 trillion in debt and this law spends more money we do not have. The law taxes medical devices that Americans use every day and has forced individuals and businesses to drop health care coverage they enjoyed. “Today’s legislation also ends taxpayer funding for organizations that traffic the body parts of babies. It redirects taxpayer money and increases funding for better health care for women and children through federally qualified health centers, including the 13 in Michigan's Fourth District that serve more than 154,000 patients. “By sending this legislation to President Obama’s desk, our country has the opportunity to repeal the parts of the Affordable Care Act that Americans do not like and move toward patient-centered alternatives with lower premiums and fewer mandates, allowing individuals to choose the coverage they want.”
10.08.2015	The office of U.S. Representative John Moolenaar is now accepting applications from high school seniors for nominations to the U.S. service academies. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. Complete instructions for applications are available at https://moolenaar.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. Applications should be submitted to Representative Moolenaar's office by postal mail or fax: Representative John Moolenaar 200 East Main Street Suite 230 Midland, MI 48640 FAX: 989-631-6271 The deadline for applications is November 13. Questions can be directed to Sarah Brooks at 989-631-2552.
10.08.2015	This week, Probate Judge Ken Tacoma, the presiding judge of the Family Division for the 28th Circuit Family Court in Cadillac, was honored as one of 250 honorees from 50 states at this year's Angels in Adoption event held on Tuesday by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute in Washington, D.C. Judge Tacoma's efforts on adoption have led to significant changes in state law and improved the lives of countless children in Michigan. "Cathy and I have had a great time in our nation's capitol and enjoyed meeting so many great Angels in Adoption," said Judge Tacoma. "It was a great honor and pleasure to recommend Judge Tacoma for this award. The heartfelt work he has done advocating on behalf of children has helped many find safe, loving and permanent homes," said Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland). Also on Tuesday, the House passed the Adoptive Family Relief Act. The legislation eliminates visa fees for when visas need to be re-issued for the adoption of children who have been delayed in leaving for the United States. Pictured: Representative Moolenaar, Cathy Tacoma and Judge Ken Tacoma in Washington D.C.
09.24.2015	Today, Pope Francis addressed a joint session of Congress. The much-anticipated speech drew enthusiastic attendees to the West Lawn of the Capitol where they were able to view it on large screens put up specifically for the event. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) sat in the House chamber to hear the Pope’s speech and released the following statement: “As he addressed Congress, the Pope faced a depiction of Moses, the first lawgiver, and called on us to protect the likeness fashioned by God on every face. He spoke of the richness of family life and the importance of providing hope and opportunity for our children and future generations. He recognized the nobility of business and the positive role it plays in creating prosperity for all. Most importantly, he called on us to remember the Golden Rule and our ‘responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development.’ It was an honor to represent the hardworking residents of Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District in attending the first papal address to Congress. The Catholic Church and its charities do tremendous work to improve the wellbeing of all people and I hope that Pope Francis’s historic speech reminds all of us about the indispensable role of faith and religious liberty in our nation.”
09.18.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015. The bill ends taxpayer support for Planned Parenthood and increases funding for federally qualified health care centers by $235 million. Federally qualified health care centers serve rural and urban populations and provide more services than Planned Parenthood, including eye, ear and dental screenings for children, immunizations, and mammograms. There are 201 federally qualified health care locations across Michigan. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in favor of the legislation and spoke about his support for it during a speech on the House floor yesterday. "H.R. 3134 restores trust for American taxpayers. It provides more funding for qualified health centers that offer pediatric care, immunizations, mammograms and more life-saving health care services that protect mother and child. These better options are worthy of taxpayer funding and will make a positive difference for women and children across our country," said Moolenaar.
09.11.2015	Today marks the 14th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States. Representative John Moolenaar released the following statement: “Today, I join millions of Americans in remembering the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States. The victims were from around the nation and more than 90 countries. My thoughts and prayers go out to all who grieve on this day, and I give thanks for all of the courageous men and women who serve our communities as first-responders.”
08.27.2015	Today, Rep. Moolenaar had the privilege of presenting the Purple Heart to Private Eugene Paulino of Mecosta. Eugene was an infantryman in World War II and was injured at the Battle of the Bulge. He has scars from his injuries and they are a reminder to us of the price that has been paid for our freedoms and our way of life. Thank you Eugene, for serving our country and making the world a better place! Here is a great video from the Big Rapids Pioneer: Video of Mecosta veteran officially presented Purple Heart, other medals
07.29.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed the VA Accountability Act of 2015 to hold the Veterans Administration accountable for its failures, and to improve care for veterans. Since the waitlist scandal was uncovered, only a few employees have been fired and others have been allowed to remain on paid suspension for an extended period of time. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of the legislation and made the following statement. “This legislation is about better care for our veterans. The federal employees who misled veterans and denied them care need to be held accountable and should not be paid by taxpayers. I believe our veterans deserve the best care and the utmost respect for their service to our country. It’s time for the VA to hold employees accountable and provide better care our nation’s heroes.”
07.21.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2256, the Veterans Information Modernization Act. The legislation requires the Veterans Administration to submit an annual report to Congress on the basic cost of services it offers to our nation’s veterans. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in favor of the bill and made the following statement: “The Veterans Administration continues to fail our nation’s heroes. This legislation demands more accountability from the VA to make sure the department is doing all it should to take care of our veterans.”
07.14.2015	Today, the Obama Administration announced an agreement between China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States and Iran to permanently repeal economic sanctions on Iran in exchange for temporary concessions on Iran’s development of nuclear weapons. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement. “Tough economic sanctions worked and brought Iran to the negotiating table. Congress now has a critical role reviewing the terms of the agreement. Based on reports, it is alarming to hear that restrictions on weapons and ballistic missiles will be lifted in the near future, and Iran's nuclear program is being further enabled through increased technology. Iran sponsors terrorism around the world and should be prohibited from receiving arms or obtaining a nuclear weapon. This agreement makes permanent concessions to Iran with only temporary benefits in return and the deal falls short of the need for Iran to meet concrete, verifiable standards.”
07.10.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act to modernize medical research and to spur the development of life-saving treatments. The legislation allows researchers to bring medicines to the marketplace faster and cheaper, and incentivizes the targeting of rare diseases that affect a small number of people. The House passed the bill on a strong, bipartisan vote, 344 to 77. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of the bill and made the following statement: "The 21st Century Cures Act cuts the time it takes for cures to get from the lab to the patients who need them, and it will continue America's international leadership in medical innovation and research, a growing field that employs more than 6 million Americans."
07.09.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy about her agency’s Waters of the United States Rule. The EPA announced the rule last month, despite a recent bipartisan vote in Congress calling on the agency to withdraw the rule and seek more comment from local communities and their residents. Moolenaar has repeatedly heard from hardworking Fourth District farmers about their concerns regarding the possibility of the EPA regulating ditches on their land. He asked McCarthy to clarify the matter and McCarthy agreed to work with him on the matter in the future. Moolenaar released the following statement on today’s hearing: “I support the Clean Water Act and its protections for the Great Lakes and the drinking water of Michigan residents. The EPA must focus on protecting navigable waters, but many in Michigan’s Fourth District have shared with me their concerns that the EPA is overstepping its authority with its latest water rule. “Congress has oversight of the EPA and has heard from environmental experts and farmers that the water rule is confusing. The unintended consequences of this rule could be very costly to local communities in Michigan. I look forward to working with Administrator McCarthy on making sure Michigan farmers, businesses and towns will be able to operate without interference from the EPA.” Here is video of Representative Moolenaar questioning Administrator McCarthy.
07.08.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. Representative John Moolenaar supported the bill and made the following statement. "The Student Success Act eliminates more than 65 ineffective government programs, putting more money for students into the classroom. The legislation also prohibits the federal government from coercing states into adopting Common Core. As a former charter school administrator and the parent of school-aged children, I believe it is important to protect the rights of parents to decide how to best educate their children."
06.30.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar visited the "I Support the One Percent Food Pantry" in Saginaw. The food pantry is dedicated to serving veterans and active duty U.S. military personnel and is named in reference to the fact that one percent of the U.S. population is on active-duty defending all Americans. "Our men and women in uniform have fought for the freedoms we celebrate on Independence Day. This food pantry is here to serve them. The outstanding volunteers here have done a great job giving back to the community," said Moolenaar. As part of his visit to the food pantry, Moolenaar donated non-perishable food. The food pantry is located at 4821 Janes Road, Saginaw, MI 48601. More information is available online at https://supportthe1percent.com/.
06.29.2015	Today, the United States Supreme Court issued its ruling in Michigan v. EPA, a case concerning the Environmental Protection Agency's overreaching interpretation of its powers under the Clean Air Act. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement in response to the ruling: "Today, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of all Americans who are frustrated with the EPA and its overzealous pursuit of expansive rules that exceed its authority. The EPA has been trying to implement regulations that would dramatically increase the price of electricity for families and ratepayers throughout Michigan. Thankfully, the Supreme Court ruled for the American people."
06.25.2015	Today, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in King v. Burwell, a case regarding federal subsidies for health insurance. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: "Today’s ruling fails to protect Americans from President Obama’s broken health care law. Premium increases are already expected next year, and more Americans are paying higher deductibles that take hard-earned money straight out of their pockets. I will continue to fight for patient-centered alternatives that let individuals choose the coverage they want and drive down the cost of health insurance."
06.17.2015	Today, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 2146. The text of legislation is available online at Congress.gov. The legislation increases Congressional oversight and brings transparency to the trade negotiations being led by the Obama Administration. The bill requires President Obama to make new trade agreements public by posting them online for 60 days before signing them and sending them to Congress for a final decision. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of the bill and released the following statement: "With this oversight and transparency bill, Congress and the public will see what the administration has been negotiating. Congress will continue to have the final say on trade deals made by the president. If the Administration makes a bad deal that doesn't benefit farmers, manufacturers and hardworking men and women, Congress can vote against the agreement and stop it from becoming law. "Michigan products are already winning new customers in other countries. Last year, Michigan businesses sold more than $55 billion in exports around the world. Those profits are invested here at home. Future trade deals will create new opportunities for Michigan businesses to grow and create jobs."
06.16.2015	Today, the United States Food and Drug Administration issued a ruling banning partially hydrogenated oils – commonly known as trans fat - that are used in many popular foods including cake frosting, cookies, French fries, pie and popcorn. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) made the following statement in response to the FDA’s ruling: “This is an unnecessary intrusion by the federal government. Already, many companies are removing trans fats from their products and Americans are making common-sense, healthy choices about what they eat. Americans should be trusted to make the food choices that are best for them and their family. They don’t need Washington bureaucrats telling them what they can and cannot eat.” Moolenaar is a member of the House Agriculture Committee, the House Budget Committee, and the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
06.12.2015	Today, the National Science Foundation announced an award to Alma College for its research on soil and Michigan’s forests. “I congratulate Alma College on this award. This research will benefit Michiganders and help us learn more about the best practices for managing and protecting the health of Michigan’s beautiful forests,” said Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland). The study will begin on June 15 with $298,188 in funding.
05.27.2015	Today, the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington D.C. announced its Waters of the United States rule. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: "When I hear from farmers in my district, this EPA rule is one of their top concerns. They are worried about the federal government coming to regulate ditches and mud puddles on their land. Republicans and Democrats alike have voted against this EPA proposal, and we will continue to fight for the thousands of men and women working in Michigan agriculture to ensure they are able to farm their land and run their businesses without being saddled by onerous rules and regulations. "Instead of giving more power to bureaucrats, the EPA should focus on protecting real navigable waters, especially the Great Lakes. In February, the administration proposed cutting funding for protecting the Great Lakes, leaving them vulnerable to invasive species. The EPA’s misplaced priorities jeopardize Michigan’s tourism and fishing jobs. The EPA should focus on protecting the Great Lakes and not burden Michigan farms and businesses with more costly regulations."
05.20.2015	Today, the House Agriculture Committee passed legislation co-sponsored by Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland). The committee passed a repeal of the country of origin labeling law that was found to be in violation by the World Trade Organization on Monday, for unfairly discriminating against imported meat. The United States must quickly act to repeal the law in order to avoid retaliatory tariff actions from Canada and Mexico that would harm Michigan farmers and businesses. The ruling does not affect food safety. “The current labeling law is in violation and ineffective. It is unnecessary, imposes a heavy burden on our farmers and could drive up prices on hardworking Michigan families. I hope the House will act quickly to repeal the law,” said Moolenaar. House Resolution 2393, to amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal country of origin labeling requirements with respect to beef, pork, and chicken, was introduced by Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway. It is co-sponsored by 43 Republicans and 13 Democrats. -30-
05.20.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed The America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2015. The legislation expands the definition of STEM education to include computer science. STEM stands for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. The COMPETES Act also reauthorizes research programs at the National Science Foundation, the National Institute for Standards and Technology, the Department of Energy and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a co-sponsor of the legislation, and a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, spoke on the House floor in favor of the bill. His remarks are below. Rep. Moolenaar's Remarks on the America COMPETES Act Mr. Speaker, The America COMPETES Act is good legislation that will help build a better future for our country. The COMPETES Act expands the definition of STEM education to include computer science. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, for every computer science graduate between 2013 and 2023, there will be two jobs available. That's why programs in my district like goIT, offered free of charge to middle and high school students are so important to creating career awareness in computer science and other STEM fields. This legislation increases government accountability. It requires that National Science Foundation grants to meet a national interest standard and to publicly justify why they should receive taxpayer money. Requiring government agencies to prioritize the national interest is common sense and enhances accountability to the American people. I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the America COMPETES Act and I urge my colleagues to vote YES. I yield back. -30-
05.19.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed an extension of the Highway Trust Fund. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “Everyone agrees that our infrastructure needs are critical. We need to make highway funding a higher priority without raising taxes on hardworking Michigan families and without burdening our children with more debt,” said Moolenaar. The extension of the Highway Trust Fund passed on a 387-35 vote, with one member voting present.
05.14.2015	Today, John Moolenaar (R-Midland) co-sponsored an amendment to the Commodities Future Trading Commission reauthorization bill. The amendment clarifies regulations in the Commodity Exchange Act and allows college endowments, college alumni associations and religious organizations with investment funds to avoid unnecessary registration costs with the CFTC. “College endowments and religious organizations are not commodity pool operators and this is a commonsense clarification. With this legislation, the colleges and universities in the Fourth District will be better able to serve their students, alumni, and communities, and religious organizations can focus their efforts on helping the less fortunate, not excessive government paperwork,” said Moolenaar. The amendment was adopted by the committee. The CFTC reauthorization bill passed the House Agriculture Committee and was reported to the House.
05.13.2015	Today, John Moolenaar (R-MI) voted in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, to prohibit the abortion of unborn babies after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The legislation is supported by 60 percent of Americans, including 59 percent of women. “A child in a mother’s womb is a blessing. This legislation protects the most vulnerable and dependent people in our country against a tragic end, and demands that we all work harder to prepare safe outcomes for the lives of expectant mothers and their unborn children,” said Moolenaar. The House passed the legislation on a bipartisan vote, 242-184.
05.12.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, calling on the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw proposed Waters of the U.S. rules. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) supported the legislation. “I have been vehemently opposed to the excessive Waters of the U.S. rules proposed by the EPA that would regulate mud puddles on farmers’ fields. Today, the House stood up for farmers in Michigan's Fourth Congressional District, and called for the EPA to withdraw its proposed rules and listen to input from farm operators and local communities,” said Moolenaar. The bill passed the House on a bipartisan vote, 261 to 155.
05.05.2015	On Monday at the Midland Center for the Arts, Blake Groulx, a senior at Midland High School, won the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Michigan's Congressional Fourth District sponsored by Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland). Groulx's piece, "Portrait of Evie," is a charcoal illustration. The piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Blake will be invited to attend a reception with his fellow winners from around the country on June 24th in Washington D.C. "We had great participation for this year's contest from many talented young artists. I look forward to seeing Blake's art on display at the Capitol. I can see it when I walk to votes on the House floor," said Moolenaar. "I've never been to D.C. and am excited to see the city and its art, as well as the art of the other district winners," said Groulx. Three regional winners have the opportunity to have their art displayed in Representative Moolenaar's district office in Midland. The three regional winners are Chanyanuch Aiemruksa from Durand High School, Sara Kollig from H.H. Dow High School and Ashlee Larson from Big Rapids High School. Pictured: Representative John Moolenaar (left) with Midland High School senior Blake Groulx (right), and his winning charcoal illustration, "Portrait of Evie" (center), at the Midland Center for the Arts.
04.30.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed a balanced budget resolution for the 2016 federal budget. The budget resolution sets the spending levels for the appropriations committees in the House and Senate as they make funding decisions for the 2016 fiscal year. The Senate is expected to vote on the legislation next week. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a member of the House and Senate Budget Conference Committee which worked on the joint budget resolution released the following statement: "This is the first ten-year balanced budget passed since 2001. It balances without raising taxes on hardworking Michigan families and it keeps the promises that have been made to seniors in the Fourth District. This budget also calls for tax reform. The tax code is 74,000 pages long and has not been overhauled in 29 years. It’s time for a simpler and fairer system," said Moolenaar. The budget resolution sets spending limits for the 2016 federal fiscal year which begins on October 1, 2015 and runs through September 30, 2016.
04.30.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) joined Rep. Dan Kildee (D-Flint) in calling on Iran to release Amir Hekmati of Flint. Hekmati has been held prisoner by Iran for three and a half years. Moolenaar met with Hekmati’s family today on Capitol Hill. “Amir Hekmati’s perseverance during three and a half years in captivity is inspiring. Amir’s family misses him dearly and he should be allowed to come home to Michigan and reunite with them. It’s time for the Hekmati family to be with their son and brother again. Iran should release Amir immediately,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar will join a bipartisan group of U.S. representatives in co-sponsoring House Resolution 233 written by Rep. Kildee. The resolution calls on Iran to free Amir and other American prisoners in Iran, and provide information on other U.S. citizens who have disappeared in Iran. Pictured: Sarah Hekmati, Amir Hekmati's sister (second from left) and her husband Dr. Rami Kurdi (far left) with Representative John Moolenaar (center), TV personality Montel Williams (second from right) and Rep. Dan Kildee (far right).
04.16.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support H.R. 1105, to repeal the Estate Tax, commonly known as the Death Tax. The 40 percent tax is imposed on individuals receiving an inheritance from the death of a family member or friend. It is levied on top of their regular income tax. “For many in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District, the American Dream is to build a family farm or business and pass it on to their sons and daughters. Repealing the Death Tax makes it easier for Americans to realize that dream. “The Death Tax often forces family farms to sell land and equipment to pay their tax bill. This is unacceptable. Death should never be a taxable event,” said Moolenaar. The House passed repeal of the Death Tax in a bipartisan, 240-179 vote. ###
04.15.2015	Today is the 150th anniversary of the day President Abraham Lincoln was tragically killed by assassin John Wilkes Booth. Yesterday on the House floor, Representative John Moolenaar marked the anniversary with a speech honoring the legacy of our nation’s 16th president. Click below to watch the video. A transcript of Rep. Moolenaar's remarks is also provided below. --------------------------------------------------- This week marks the 150th anniversary of the tragic day an assassin’s bullet took President Abraham Lincoln’s life. There is no greater challenge than leading a nation through an armed conflict against itself – one that divided families and longtime friends. When responding to criticism of his efforts to save the Union, President Lincoln said “If the end brings me out all right, what is said against me won’t amount to anything. If the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference.” History has vindicated President Lincoln, and now as War Secretary Edwin Stanton said, he “belongs to the ages.” Through solemn, humble and steadfast leadership he guided our nation through the crisis; the horrific period of conflict between Fort Sumter and Appomattox. Sustained by faith, he stood on principle to preserve our country, to correct a nation's moral failing, and to lead a government of, by, and for the people, ever closer toward a more perfect Union. President Lincoln gave his life – his last full measure of devotion – for our country and he will forever be remembered for his heroic work to preserve our United States of America.
04.15.2015	Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) has been named to the House and Senate conference committee on the 2016 federal budget. “Members of the House and Senate have worked hard to draft a budget that balances within ten years, keeps the promises made to seniors and does not raise taxes on hardworking Americans. I am thankful for the trust placed in me, and I look forward to continuing to work on a fiscally responsible budget that will boost the slowly growing economy, create jobs and raise wages,” Moolenaar said. “As a member of the House Budget Committee, Congressman Moolenaar played an integral role in the adoption of our balanced budget proposal. I appreciate his willingness to now serve as a member of our conference committee as we work to forge an agreement between the House and Senate on a unified budget. This effort will help pave the way for positive solutions to our nation’s fiscal and economic challenges,” said House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price. It has been six years since Congress passed a budget resolution to set the guardrails of federal spending. Conference committee members will work to reconcile differences between the House and Senate budgets before sending a single budget to both chambers for approval. ###
03.31.2015	In a 392-37 bipartisan vote today, the House of Representatives approved a permanent fix to the Sustainable Growth Rate in Medicare. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in favor of the legislation and released the following statement: “Permanently fixing Medicare's Sustainable Growth Rate provides rural health care access for our district’s over 130,000 Medicare-eligible individuals and gives doctors certainty over the costs of treating patients. The reforms passed in this legislation keep the promises that have been made by Medicare.” -30-
03.25.2015	Today, the United States Department of Agriculture declared crop disaster designations for 13 counties in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District for multiple disasters that occurred during the 2014 crop year. “2014 was a difficult year for some of the 10,000 farms and 15,000 farm operators in the Fourth District. Agriculture is vital to Michigan’s economy, and those operators in need of financial assistance can apply for loans that will keep their farm in business,” said Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland). The following counties in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District were declared crop disaster areas by the USDA on March 25, 2015: Clare Clinton Gratiot Mecosta Midland Missaukee Montcalm Ogemaw Osceola Roscommon Saginaw Shiawassee Wexford Farm operators in these counties are eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency, including emergency loans. Farm operators have eight months from the date of the disaster designation to apply for assistance. More information is available at local Farm Service Agency offices.
03.25.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed its federal budget resolution for the 2016 fiscal year. The fiscal year begins on October 1, 2015 and runs through September 30, 2016. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of the budget and released the following statement: "This budget for a stronger America keeps the promises that have been made to the over 130,000 Medicare-eligible individuals and 169,000 Social Security recipients in Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. This budget balances within ten years and does not raise taxes on hardworking Michigan taxpayers." -30-
03.17.2015	Today, House Republicans released their budget for the fiscal year that begins on October 1, 2015. As a member of the House Budget Committee, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “This is a balanced budget for a stronger America. Recently, the president proposed a $4 trillion budget that never balances. The House Republican budget balances within ten years and keeps the promises that have been made to our seniors. It observes bipartisan spending caps and charts a sustainable fiscal course for the future of our country. By reducing Washington’s spending, the budget will boost our slow-growing economy, creating jobs and raising wages.” -30-
03.12.2015	Today, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office presented its analysis of President Obama’s $4 trillion annual budget. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “President Obama’s budget adds trillions more in crushing new debt during the next 10 years. It raises taxes by over $1 trillion and never balances. On Tuesday, House Republicans will present a budget that prioritizes government spending and balances within 10 years without raising taxes on the hardworking American people. This budget will put the United States on a more sustainable fiscal path and boost the slow-growing U.S. economy.” -30-
03.12.2015	Today, First Lieutenant William Milzarski of Bath Township received the Purple Heart Medal at a ceremony in the rotunda of the state capitol in Lansing. As a platoon leader in Afghanistan, First Lieutenant Milzarski led 24 soldiers on 244 combat missions. On May 27, 2011, he was struck in the face by a ricocheted bullet as he and his men were engaged in combat with the enemy. U.S. Representative John Moolenaar (Midland) presented the Purple Heart Medal and praised Milzarski, saying, "he braved firefights in a foreign land on our behalf, defending our way of life and the values we cherish." State Senator Rick Jones (Grand Ledge) and State Speaker Pro Tempore Tom Leonard (DeWitt) attended the event. Leonard presented Milzarski with a flag that was flown over the state capitol. Photos from the event are below. From left to right: U.S. Representative John Moolenaar (Midland), Purple Heart Recipient, First Lieutenant William Milzarski (Bath Township), Major General Gregory J. Vadnais of the Michigan Army and Air National Guard, State Representative Tom Leonard (DeWitt). U.S. Representative John Moolenaar presents the Purple Heart to First Lieutenant William Milzarski. The lieutenant's wife, Michelle Milzarski, is at left. U.S. Representative John Moolenaar presents the Purple Heart to First Lieutenant William Milzarski. The lieutenant's wife, Michelle Milzarski, is at left. First Lieutenant William Milzarski speaks to U.S. Representative John Moolenaar after receiving the Purple Heart Medal. First Lieutenant William Milzarski (Bath Township) addresses the audience in the rotunda of the state capitol in Lansing after receiving the Purple Heart Medal for his service in Afghanistan. ###
03.06.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) announced that his Midland district office has a new address. The new office is located at: 200 East Main Street Suite 230 Midland, MI 48640 “Whether constituents need help with a federal agency or want information for a trip to Washington, they can expect to continue receiving great service at this new location. I look forward to seeing constituents at the open house,” said Moolenaar. The open house will be held at the new office on Friday, March 13, from 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM. U.S. postal mail will be forwarded to the new address. The phone and fax numbers for the new office are unchanged. The phone number is (989) 631-2552 and the fax number is (989) 631-6271. ###
03.04.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) announced that the Fourth Congressional District will participate in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students in the district. The winning student will have his or her art displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C. The regional winners will have the opportunity for their art to appear in the Midland district office. "This is a great opportunity for the students of our district to showcase their skills and creativity. There are many talented young artists in our region," said Moolenaar. The submission deadline for this year’s contest is April 17. Entries should be delivered to Representative Moolenaar’s district office at 200 East Main Street, Suite 230, Midland, MI 48640. All entries must be accompanied with a completed Student Information and Release Form. That form and complete contest guidelines are online at https://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/. Further questions can also be directed to Representative Moolenaar’s Midland office at 989-631-2552. -30-
03.04.2015	This week, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, and U.S. Representative John Moolenaar sent a joint letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy concerning the clean-up of the Velsicol Burn Pit Superfund site in St. Louis, Michigan. The letter notes that the EPA failed to detail plans for real-time monitoring of the site over the long-term and calls for the agency to develop a cleanup plan that gives strong consideration to the views of St. Louis residents. In the letter, the three officials write: "We share the community’s concerns and commitment to protect human health and the environment. We ask that any final remedy ensure the health and safety of St. Louis residents and allow for the restoration of the economic and recreational potential of the property." The burn pit Superfund site is a five-acre parcel of land in St. Louis. It became eligible for federal cleanup funding in 2010. A copy of the letter sent to Administrator McCarthy is below: The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed plan for the cleanup of the Velsicol Burn Pit Superfund Site located in St. Louis, Michigan. As you know, for more than a decade this site was used by the Michigan Chemical Company, and later the Velsicol Chemical Company, as a place to burn and dispose of industrial waste, including the pesticide DDT. This industrial pollution contaminated the soil and surrounding groundwater. We encourage the agency to address the concerns of local officials and citizens before finalizing its proposed plan to remove industrial pollution from the site. In recent public comments submitted to the EPA by the Pine River Superfund Citizen Task Force and the city of St. Louis, citizens expressed concerns that the EPA’s proposed cleanup plan for the site did not contain enough detail for the community to make an informed decision. The document fell short in its failure to plan for real-time monitoring during remediation; its lack of confirmation sampling after the EPA’s planned treatment is finalized; its reliance on a pumping system proposed for another site, but not yet installed; and its failure to plan for long-term monitoring of the site. We share the community’s concerns and commitment to protect human health and the environment. We ask that any final remedy ensure the health and safety of St. Louis residents and allow for the restoration of the economic and recreational potential of the property. According to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the EPA must meet nine criteria when choosing a remedy for a Superfund site, one of which is community acceptance. As the EPA works to finalize a cleanup plan for the site, we ask the agency to give strong consideration to the voice of the community as well as maintain a transparent and inclusive process. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention and response to this matter. Sincerely, Debbie Stabenow U.S. Senator Gary Peters U.S. Senator John Moolenaar U.S. Representative -30-
02.27.2015	Today, the House passed legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security through March 7, 2015. Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement: “I voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security to keep America safe from the threat of terrorism. Because of ISIS and other threats to our security we must do what we can to prevent them from striking the United States. “The federal courts have already prohibited President Obama’s executive orders on immigration from being implemented. The president himself said twenty-two times that he could not use executive authority on immigration. This overreach and abuse of power must be reviewed and stopped by the judicial branch of government.” -30-
02.26.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) made a statement on the Federal Communications Commission’s new rules for regulating the Internet. “The Internet regulations announced by the FCC today are wholly unwarranted. The Internet has flourished and become a great success because it is not overly regulated by the government. The proposed FCC rules will have a chilling effect on American innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit that makes our nation great. To keep that success going, the government should end these heavy-handed regulations,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.25.2015	Today, a bipartisan majority of the House voted for H.R. 529 to strengthen and modernize policy for college savings plans. “I voted to expand and strengthen college savings plans because they help hard-working American families save money and make college more affordable. Under the current law, computers are not included as a college expense. This legislation brings this tax policy into the 21st century, because a computer is an essential tool for student success,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.24.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) spoke on the House floor in favor of the STEM Education Act of 2015. The bill will support merit-based grants through the National Science Foundation for programs that provide students with STEM education opportunities outside of the classroom. “Science, technology, engineering and mathematics education is critical to preparing today’s students for the opportunities of the future, including good-paying, skilled trade jobs in construction, manufacturing and welding. This legislation will help ensure that America remains the world leader in research and innovation,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. A transcript of Representative Moolenaar’s remarks is below, and here is a link to video of the speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHUG5DNkz6c Representative Moolenaar's Floor Speech on the STEM Education Act of 2015 Mr. Speaker, Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education is necessary to prepare today’s students for future job opportunities. H.R. 1020 will add computer science under the definition of STEM programs while providing grants for the research of new, informal out-of-school methods for teaching STEM subjects. Whether it is a hands-on museum, a science competition, or an internship as a lab assistant, finding the best ways to teach these critical subjects outside of the classroom will help students who might not learn these subjects in a traditional setting. As our nation’s employers look to fill good-paying positions, STEM education has applications across the board, including skilled trades in construction, manufacturing and welding. Every student who learns these skills will have the solid academic background necessary to secure employment in a career field. This important legislation will benefit bright young minds outside of the classroom, and help our country remain the world leader in research and innovation. I urge my colleagues to vote Yes. I yield back. ###
02.24.2015	Today, President Obama vetoed Senate Bill 1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The legislation has bipartisan support in Congress and from a majority of Americans. "This afternoon the president vetoed the bipartisan Keystone Pipeline bill, refusing to approve a project that supports good-paying jobs for hard-working Americans and improves our nation's energy security. Congress should override his veto and approve this project for the benefit of our country," said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.18.2015	Today, Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Midland) released the following statement regarding the recent decision by federal Judge Andrew Hanen to delay the implementation of President Obama's executive actions on immigration. “I think the Court made the right decision. In light of it, I hope the President will abandon his plan for unilateral executive actions on immigration. Our country needs Congress and the President to work together on comprehensive immigration reform that secures the border first, treats legal immigrants fairly, and allows for skilled workers to come to the U.S. through a legal process to pursue the American Dream,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.13.2015	Today, Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted for America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015. This bill reduces the tax burden for America’s farms and small businesses. “There has been too much uncertainty caused by the complicated tax code. This legislation provides tax relief for Michigan farmers and small business owners. This permanent policy will help ensure small businesses are able to plan with certainty and fairly value their assets on their tax returns,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.13.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) joined the bipartisan I-69 Caucus. This caucus supports the completion of Interstate 69, which, when finished, will stretch from Port Huron to the U.S.-Mexico border. "The I-69 International Trade Corridor has done great work to promote our region's workforce and economic potential. Continued development along I-69 will benefit Shiawassee and Clinton counties, and the entire region," said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. His official House website is online at Moolenaar.House.Gov, and on Facebook at Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
02.11.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of Senate Bill 1 to build the Keystone Pipeline. The bill passed 270 to 152, with bipartisan support. The bill has passed both chambers of Congress and now heads to President Obama's desk for his signature. "The Keystone pipeline helps secure our country's energy independence and supports jobs without raising taxes or adding to our debt. There is broad bipartisan support for this legislation and the president should sign it," said Moolenaar. Moolenaar spoke on the House Floor during debate. The text of the speech is below. Here is a link to video of his speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ehEWOfnsfyc Rep. Moolenaar's Floor Speech on the Keystone Pipeline Mr. Speaker, It's time to build the Keystone Pipeline. Building Keystone will create jobs, expand economic opportunity and provide our country with energy from a reliable trading partner. It is estimated that the pipeline will carry more than 30 million gallons of oil per day, and the State Department has concluded the pipeline is the safest way to transport it to market. Keystone will support job creation by moving oil to American refineries where American workers will process it. Thousands of products using refined oil are manufactured and purchased by Americans every day, and this pipeline has potential to make those products less expensive. The House has passed Keystone policy time and again. Ten times in fact, the House has stood with American workers and consumers. Today, we stand with hard-working Americans looking for good-paying jobs. Today, we stand with American consumers who will see more of their hard-earned money go further at the gas pump. Keystone helps secure our country's energy independence, lowers energy costs for every American and supports jobs without raising taxes or adding to our debt. It's time to pass this bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote yes. I yield back. -30-
02.04.2015	Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a member of the House Budget Committee, questioned Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan at today's committee hearing regarding funding to protect the Great Lakes from the threat of Asian Carp. "The president's budget spends too much money on new, untested programs, while cutting funding that protects the Great Lakes from the threat of Asian Carp. The entire country benefits from the Great Lakes, and protecting them from invasive species must be a top priority." Constituents looking for more information about Representative Moolenaar and his committee assignments can go to Moolenaar.House.Gov, Facebook.com/RepMoolenaar, and Twitter.com/RepMoolenaar. -30-
01.28.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar (R-MI) announced that he will serve on two subcommittees of the House Committee on Agriculture. He will serve on the Subcommittee on Nutrition, and the Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research. “According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Fourth District is Michigan’s No. 1 agriculture producing district with over 10,000 farms and 15,000 farm operators. These subcommittee assignments are a great opportunity to work on issues vital to the district,” said Moolenaar. In addition to the House Committee on Agriculture, Moolenaar is also a member of the House Committee on the Budget, and the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. -30-
01.28.2015	Yesterday, Representative John Moolenaar (R-Midland), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, participated in the committee's hearing with Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf. Elmendorf presented the CBO's annual report on the federal budget and the economic outlook. "Our country has serious long-term fiscal issues that need to be addressed in this Congress. Our nation faces $18 trillion in debt. We must work with bipartisan cooperation from the White House to ensure that Michigan's hardworking taxpayers have more and better-paying jobs in the future. The report from the CBO is another reminder that we must reform government spending to create opportunity for families and job creators," said Moolenaar. Moolenaar is also a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, and the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. -30-
01.26.2015	Today, Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Midland) announced that he will serve as Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology that is part of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. "The subcommittee has jurisdiction over scientific research that is critical to our country's future and its place as a global leader in innovation, as well as federal policy on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education, and cybersecurity policy," said Moolenaar. House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) congratulated Moolenaar. "With experience as both an accomplished state legislator and at a leading chemical company, John Moolenaar brings an important perspective to his new role as vice-chairman of the Research and Technology Subcommittee. We have important work ahead of us in the 114th Congress. As we take on issues that will shape our nation's future, the Committee will benefit from Rep. Moolenaar's experience and leadership. I look forward to working closely with Rep. Moolenaar to ensure our nation's scientific enterprise remains strong," said Smith. Representative Moolenaar is also a member of the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Committee on the Budget. -30-
01.20.2015	Tonight, Representative John Moolenaar (R-MI) attended President Obama's State of the Union address before the 114th Congress. "Tonight, President Obama proposed more tax hikes on the American people. This economic recovery has been historically slow, and Americans have no desire to pay more for a big-government agenda," said Moolenaar. "The president should work with Republicans in Congress to cut spending, taxes, and regulation, and lessen the burden of government on hardworking Americans, in order to create more, better-paying jobs." Moolenaar serves Michigan's Fourth Congressional District, and is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, the House Committee on Budget, and the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. -30-
01.14.2015	Today, Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) voted to block funding for President Obama’s executive actions on immigration, and to provide appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security to enforce immigration laws and remove violent offenders from the country. “Today, I voted for legislation that blocks funding for President Obama’s unconstitutional amnesty programs, and focuses on border security and the enforcement of current laws. This bill prioritizes the removal of violent offenders and makes America safer,” said Moolenaar. “I hope the Senate acts quickly on this legislation to secure our borders and enforce our immigration laws.” H.R. 240 passed the House, 236-191, and now heads to the Senate. -30-
01.13.2015	Today, Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Midland) voted in support of H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act. This legislation will require the Executive Branch to follow the least costly method of implementing new rules and regulations. "Currently, federal regulations cost an average of $15,000 per household each year. Throughout my district, I have heard over and over about the onerous burden of federal regulations on small businesses, particularly farms. The federal government can and must do better." "Today, I voted for these common-sense reforms to send a clear message to the Executive Branch that it can't do business as usual. The Senate should immediately pass this legislation," said Moolenaar. The bill passed the House 250-175, with bipartisan support, and now heads to the Senate. -30-
01.06.2015	Today, Representative John Moolenaar took the oath of office in the House of Representatives, joining the 114th Congress. “I am proud to take the oath of office and to start working for the residents of Michigan’s Fourth Congressional District. I joined my conservative colleagues in electing Speaker Boehner, and I look forward to working with House leadership on issues that are vital to the district,” said Moolenaar. Moolenaar was elected to the House in November, and is a member of the House Committee on the Budget, the House Committee on Agriculture, and the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. -30-
