04.23.2019	On Tuesday, April 30, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) will launch a new, emergency taskforce focused on the growing problem of suicide and access to mental health care among Black youth. Chaired by Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), The CBC Taskforce on Black Youth Suicide and Mental Health will convene experts in Washington, DC and around the country, raise awareness among Members of Congress and staff, and identify legislative recommendations to address this mental health crisis. In 2018, the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) Pediatrics published a report that found that for the first time in the history of such research, the rate of suicides for Black children between the ages of five and 12 has exceeded that of White children, and more than a third of elementary school-aged suicides involved Black children. The taskforce will seek to identify causes and solutions, and will empower a working group of academic and practicing experts led by Dr. Michael Lindsey and the McSilver Institute for Poverty Policy and Research at New York University, with the goal of developing and producing a report from the Taskforce by the end of 2019. The Taskforce will launch with a panel forum at which members will hear from individuals on that working group. Members of the Taskforce include: Alma Adams (NC-12) Emanuel Cleaver II (MO-05) Danny Davis (IL-07) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Jahana Hayes (CT-05) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Barbara Lee (CA-13) John Lewis (GA-05) Ilhan Omar (MN-05) Ayanna Pressley (MA-07) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) WHAT: Launch of the CBC Taskforce on Black Youth Suicide and Mental Health WHERE 2325 Rayburn House Office Building (Committee on Science, Space and Technology) WHEN Tuesday, April 30, 2019 Press Conference – 3:00PM Panel Forum – 3:30PM to 5:00PM WHO Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman; Rep. Karen Bass, Chairwoman, Congressional Black Caucus; Michael A. Lindsey, PhD, MSW, MPH, Executive Director at the McSilver Institute for Poverty Policy and Research at New York University; Dr. Alfiee Breland-Noble, CEO, The AAKOMA Project and Center, PLLC, Associate Professor Appointment, Georgetown Psychiatry; Dr. Sherry Molock, Associate Professor, Clinical Psychology at the George Washington University; William B. Lawson, MD, PhD, DLFAPA, PA, Consultation Institute for Reducing Disparities Through Research, Education, and Access to Care, and Editor in Chief, Journal of the National Medical Association David J. Johns, Executive Director, National Black Justice Coalition, Doctoral student at Teachers College, Columbia University.
04.04.2019	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congressman French Hill (R-AR) announced the introduction of legislation that would allow taxpayers the option to defer a portion of their taxes into an account that earns interest for six months. The bill, The Refund to Rainy Day Savings Act, seeks to give more families the flexibility to handle minor emergencies. “For too many families, a blown tire, a burst pipe, or even a few days off with the flu result in hard financial decisions — whether to risk your credit score by skipping a payment, miss the month’s rent or mortgage payments, or even pass on needed healthcare,” said Watson Coleman. “Since my first term, I have worked to get more families out of this hole, and the Refund to Rainy Day Savings Act would do just that. Working Americans are living on the brink. We have to find solutions that will give them a stronger financial footing.” “We have a savings crisis in America,” said Hill. “In order to change the culture of saving money in states like Arkansas, innovative opportunities are needed to make it easier for Americans to build up savings for unexpected expenses. The Refund to Rainy Day Savings Act is a unique and inexpensive solution that can put low-income earners, who may have never saved money before, on the path to financial stability. Giving hardworking families the option to save will unleash more economic prosperity.” The Refund to Rainy Day Savings Act would allow tax filers receiving a refund via direct deposit to defer up to 20 percent of their refund to a Treasury-held account to accumulate interest. After six months, the refund, plus interest earned, would be transferred to the direct deposit account, encouraging more people to set aside emergency savings. The bill also creates a pilot program to evaluate matches for low-income tax filers, redeploying the existing Assets for Independence match program with expanded flexibility to allow localities to identify best practices without increasing federal funding. Last year, the federal Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households report found that 40 percent of Americans couldn’t cover an unexpected expense greater than $400 — an improvement on the same statistic from 2013. The Refund to Rainy Day Savings Act, a companion to legislation introduced by Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Doug Jones (D-AL), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Todd Young (R-IN), would strengthen the financial foundation of these families. To see the text of the bill, click here.
03.20.2019	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement on proposals making their way through the New Jersey State Assembly and Senate to legalize marijuana and establish social justice measures that will help correct for years of bias in marijuana use and possession enforcement. “The criminalization of marijuana has done real damage to lives, families and whole communities among people of color in this country. When it comes to drug use and addiction, we have frequently and mistakenly used the criminal justice system with Black and Brown people, while seeking treatment, leniency and healthcare for White users. “I’m glad to see our state’s elected leaders stepping up to address the disparities that marijuana has created in our criminal justice system with the inclusion of strong social justice components in their proposal to legalize marijuana in New Jersey, and I am especially grateful for Governor Murphy’s leadership. Marijuana use is the same between Black and White Americans, yet Black people are nearly four times more likely to be arrested — and with that arrest, they suddenly face consequences like losing eligibility for affordable housing, access to jobs, and even financial aid for college. The inclusion of expungement mechanisms for low-level marijuana offenses will help hundreds of thousands of New Jerseyans regain access to critical tools that will allow them to achieve economic security, and the path to vacated convictions provided in this measure will finally address the circumstances of thousands of people serving sentences for low-level marijuana offenses. “This legislation is the nation’s most comprehensive effort to correct the years of well-documented bias in marijuana enforcement. I’m proud to once again point to our state as a model for social justice measures across the country, and look forward to seeing this measure become law.”
03.18.2019	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement today after Princeton University announced the death of Alan B. Krueger, a professor of economics and former advisor to Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. “Alan Krueger’s tremendous work has earned him a place among the most tremendous economic minds of our time. His legacy will be special because of its impact not just on academic study, but upon working people. From his groundbreaking study with Lawrence Katz and David Card on the impact of lifting the minimum wage, to his willingness to help with my own introduction of legislation to help older workers through the crisis of unemployment, his loss is a tremendous blow. His focus on data rather than simply theory, and his capacity to relate complex economic concepts to those without years of advanced study under their belts were incredibly special. “I send my deepest condolences to his family, friends and the Princeton community, and pray for their comfort at this difficult time.”
03.08.2019	Ahead of National Women and Girls HIV and AIDS Awareness Day (NWGHAAD) on Sunday, March 10, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) announced the introduction of new legislation aimed at preventing HIV and AIDS by increasing access to pre-exposure prophylaxis medication for individuals at risk of contracting HIV. The PrEP Assistance Program Act creates a grant program through the federal Department of Health and Human Services to help cover the costs of PrEP medication, laboratory fees, outreach to inform the public about PrEP, and more. “PrEP is the closest thing we have right now to a vaccine for HIV and yet it’s underutilized, particularly by those with the highest risk for developing HIV. We have a tool to prevent transmission and any further spread of HIV and AIDS, but its not reaching those who need it most. We have to change that.” PrEP, which refers to any drug that reduces the risk of contracting HIV, is currently prescribed as a daily, oral pill to individuals who do not have HIV and are at substantial risk of contracting the virus. It has been shown to reduce the risk of contracting HIV by up to 99 percent. Focused efforts to increase awareness of PrEP in these communities could help reduce new HIV diagnoses. The PrEP Assistance Program Act would award grants to existing PrEP Assistance Programs and create new state, territory and tribal programs nationwide. Grants would support medication costs, laboratory fees, sexually transmitted disease testing, treatment adherence counseling, and outreach to high-risk populations to improve awareness for prevention mechanisms like PrEP. The legislation also directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report to Congress and make available to the public the impact of the grant program, providing valuable feedback on its progress. Among the more than 1.1 million Americans living with HIV there are vast disparities in the communities most affected. African Americans represent 14% of the US population but account for 44% of HIV diagnoses, while Latinos represent 18% of the US population and 25% of HIV diagnoses. In 2018, Watson Coleman introduced a resolution supporting additional research and public education efforts on the usage of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for individuals at risk of contracting HIV. Original co-sponsors of the bill include Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), David Scott (D-GA), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Eliot Engel (D-NY), José Serrano (D-NY), Bobby Rush (D-IL), and Steve Cohen (D-TN). To view the text of the PrEP Assistance Program Act, click here. ###
03.07.2019	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement on the House of Representatives passage of legislation denouncing bigotry: “I have always stood up for my values, and in doing so I have repeatedly denounced every ‘ism’ and phobia there is: racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia, Islamaphobia, white supremacy, sexism, and every other form of hate and discrimination. Each of these backwards ideologies endangers not just the freedom, safety, and opportunity of the group at which its directed, but the foundation of our democracy itself. “We have now re-affirmed, again, our opposition to bigotry. It is time to get back to the business our constituents elected us to do: pushing for fairness in economic growth and prosperity, expanding voting rights, protecting the environment, preventing gun violence, expanding access to affordable, high-quality healthcare, and providing the check on the reckless, dangerous behavior of the President that Congress is constitutionally directed to provide. There is too much work to do to allow for any further distraction.” ###
02.22.2019	EWING, NJ — On Friday, February 22nd, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi named Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) to the U.S. Semiquincentennial Commission, the organization developing nationwide plans for the 250th anniversary of the founding of the United States. New Jersey’s history is fundamentally tied to the history of the United States. Many are aware of the Battle of Trenton and General George Washington’s attack on the British Army in Princeton but few know that Washington spent more time in New Jersey than any other state during the Revolutionary War. The history of the nation’s fight for independence saw contributions from people of all walks of life in New Jersey, from soldier to everyday civilian contributing to the war effort. “I'm excited to represent and promote New Jersey and all of its revolutionary contributions as a member of the United States Semiquincentennial Commission,” Watson Coleman said. “I’m eager to ensure that our state’s story is celebrated in the revolutionary heritage that unites us all as Americans.” U.S. Senator Robert Menendez commented on the appointment, saying “the 250th anniversary of our nation’s independence will be a moment for our country to come together and remember that we are all created equal and deserve the opportunity to achieve our limitless potential. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman’s leadership will assure New Jersey’s historic role in the American Revolution gets the appropriate attention. People from across the United States and across the world will be inspired to visit our great state and see where ordinary men and women sacrificed so much to accomplish something so extraordinary. They will be able to stand where George Washington and his men crossed the Delaware and landed in Trenton, changing the course of the war. They can visit the historic battlefield sites in Princeton and Monmouth, and see where Molly Pitcher saved the lives of countless soldiers and bravely took up arms, herself. I congratulate my friend, Bonnie, on her appointment to the U.S. Semiquincentennial Commission and look forward to working with her to showcase all that New Jersey has to offer on this exciting occasion.” “I applaud Speaker Pelosi’s appointment of Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman to the U.S. Semiquincentennial Commission,” said U.S. Senator Cory Booker. “The proud history of New Jersey is inextricably tied to the events that founded our nation. As the only African-American woman and New Jersey resident appointed to this commission, Congresswoman Watson Coleman will bring a much-needed voice to that important story and I have no doubt that the commission’s dialogue will be better for it. Sara Cureton, Director of the New Jersey Historical Commission said, “We are delighted that New Jersey’s rich Revolutionary War history will be so well represented by Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman whose long support for history will be an asset to the Semiquincentennial Commission.” "Crossroads of the American Revolution is partnered with the New Jersey Historical Commission to plan the state's commemoration of the 250th anniversary,” said Janice Selinger, Executive Director of the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area. “We're thrilled that Rep. Watson Coleman will be representing the state's deep Revolutionary heritage on the national commission," Ira Jersey, chair of the Crossroads of the American Revolution Association said, “New Jersey’s unique position within the fight for independence makes it a crucial part of the full story of the American Revolution. Rep. Watson Coleman's participation will help bring greater awareness of the everyday struggles of citizens and soldiers in which New Jersey was central.”
02.20.2019	Ewing, NJ (February 20, 2019) — Following reports that Christopher Hasson, a U.S. Coast Guard lieutenant arrested last week on gun and drug offenses, had expressed white nationalist and neo-Nazi views alongside documented plans to commit acts of domestic terrorism, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued the following statement: “Throughout my time as a member of the Homeland Security Committee I have tried to call attention to a fact that Republicans — first in Congressional control, and now in the White House — have consistently ignored: domestic extremism is the greatest terror threat facing the U.S. today. From the lives taken at Mother Emanuel, to the violence in Charlottesville, to the tragedy in Pittsburgh last year, anti-Semitic, racist, homegrown extremism is a problem that cannot be ignored, and the Trump administration must take it seriously. The fearmongering of this President about the threat of foreign terrorists sneaking across our borders ignores the consistent reports of law enforcement and intelligence officials, and this case is a perfect example. “I am grateful for the federal investigators who were able to uncover and foil Hasson’s plans, but it cannot be overlooked that this was a serious threat from within a critical component of the Department of Homeland Security. I look forward to the Committee on Homeland Security giving this issue the attention it desperately needs under Chairman Thompson’s leadership.”
02.14.2019	Washington, DC (February 14, 2019) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement on the passage of the bipartisan funding compromise: “I voted for this bill because it keeps the government open, federal employees and contractors on the job, and blocks funding for the President’s outrageous, hateful wall. However, it falls far short of the values that should be represented in all the laws we pass and the programs we fund. While this bill seeks to reduce the number of detention beds, one bed is too many as long as there’s a profit incentive to detaining immigrants — and as long as there are for-profit institutions in the detention business, that’s exactly the kind of conflict we face. No one who has come to this country for a better life, committed no crimes and worked hard to earn a living should be thrown behind bars indefinitely, period. “This legislation is about much more than the immigration debate that has stalled its passage. The bills included in this measure will also give federal workers a much-needed raise, and provide $17 billion in support of infrastructure improvements — including funds that could go toward the Gateway project. This bill’s passage brings an end to a crisis created by the President and will allow us to get back to work on the actual priorities and needs of working families. I look forward to that work.”
02.14.2019	Washington, DC (February 14, 2019) — Following reports that President Trump may declare a national emergency in order to build his ill-advised and bigoted border wall, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement. “To declare a state of emergency to build this misguided, hate-fueled, wasteful, inefficient and ineffective monument to his own personal ego is, at the same time, one of the most flagrantly lawless and inherently Trump-ian things this President could attempt. “Everyone – me, Congress, the American people – know there is no emergency, and there’s no need for the wall — it’s why the public won’t support it and why his own party has balked at paying for it. I also know just how ridiculous and hypocritical his lies about immigrants and the border are because I had the pleasure of spending the day with his former employee, Victorina Morales, last week. His own organization took it upon themselves to hire and aid undocumented workers in getting phony paperwork. Now, according to the President, they’re suddenly a pariah and a threat. If the President declares a national emergency, it will be a blatant attack on the rule of law and Congress must take him to task for it.” ###
02.04.2019	EWING, NJ (February 4, 2019) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement on the passing of LGBTQ advocate Barbara “Babs” Siperstein: “In life you encounter a few people who are hosts unto themselves, capable of the unique capacity to create change. You encounter even fewer willing to use that capacity to touch the lives of others. Babs was both. She was a legend in New Jersey and in the national fight for transgender rights, and a fierce champion and advocate for the LGBTQ community, proudly serving as the first openly transgender member of the Democratic National Committee and shifting expectations and stereotypes along the way. “Babs’s efforts spanned two decades spent tirelessly fighting to free transgender people from both stigma and the legal hurdles that kept them from living their fullest lives — a fight memorialized in the passage of the Babs Siperstein law now in effect in New Jersey. We have lost a tremendous leader who touched countless lives. I offer my deepest condolences and prayers of comfort to her family and friends at this difficult time.” ###
01.30.2019	Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, invited Victorina Morales, a resident of Bound Brook, NJ, to join the Congresswoman as her guest at the President’s State of the Union Address on Tuesday, February 5. Morales, an undocumented immigrant, was fired from the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, NJ, and has since campaigned for rights and fair treatment for undocumented immigrants. “President Trump justified shutting the government down for 5 weeks by demonizing immigrants as the scourge of the country and the root of our nation’s crime and insecurity. Meanwhile, CEO Trump led a company that has relied extensively on the hard work of undocumented immigrants like my constituent Victorina to keep his resorts clean and his putting greens trimmed. Donald Trump wants to build silly walls to stop the same immigrants that he’s made a career and a fortune from exploiting. “Trump has threatened another shutdown if he can’t get that wall. He claims his wall is for our security. The only thing his wall has any chance of securing is Trump’s ego, and I’m hopeful that Congress steps up to lead where Trump has failed. We need to implement a true bipartisan immigration reform plan — one that both secures our border and establishes a pathway to citizenship for people like Victorina, who are positively contributing to our communities. “Immigrants by and large are hardworking, trustworthy, and skilled people who simply want to work and build better lives here. For years these kinds of people were loyal and dedicated enough to be Trump Organization employees. I hope that in his State of the Union address, Donald Trump will finally acknowledge the real face of immigrants in this country — women and children fleeing violence, law-abiding, tax-paying people who would do almost anything to be Americans. And if he can’t, I’ve invited Victorina so that he may look her in her eyes to tell his lies to a familiar face.”
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC (January 22, 2019) - Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) reintroduced two bills to address the ongoing epidemic of gun violence in the United States by closing glaring holes in our firearms laws. “Gun violence continues to plague our society at levels unseen anywhere else in the world,” said Congresswoman Watson Coleman. “In the wake of tragedy after tragedy, the American people are pleading for common sense gun reform. Our failure to pass such legislation should be a point of shame for anyone entrusted with public safety, a trend I’m confident will begin to change under the leadership of Democrats in the House.” The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act, first introduced by Watson Coleman in 2015, would place limits and safeguards on the online sale of ammunition. The bill seeks to prevent acts of mass violence by requiring online purchasers of ammunition to appear at licensed dealers in-person to confirm their identities with a photo I.D, preventing unknown entities from stockpiling ammunition. The bill would also require dealers to report any sales of more than 1,000 rounds to an individual in a 5-day period — a commonsense step that would allow law enforcement to ensure such individuals don’t pose a public threat. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act, also led by Congressmen Frank Pallone, (D-NJ), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Adriano Espaillat (D-NY)) would overturn an outdated 1986 law to create commonsense standards for handgun ownership. Legislation includes a federal licensing and registration process for handgun ownership with minimum requirements including: The person seeking gun ownership is at least 21 years old; The person undergoes firearm training; The handgun owner has undergone a criminal history and background check; A license renewal process after five years. States would will be allowed to opt out of the federal system on the condition that they implement a state registration system that meets the same requirements. Polling has shown that the vast majority of Americans support these and similar commonsense gun regulations. “Our government requires registration and basic standards for voting, operating a vehicle, even opening a business. Yet, for weapons created with the single intent to take a life, we have developed a dangerous aversion to any mechanism to understand where and with whom these weapons reside,” said Watson Coleman. “Ninety-six Americans are killed every day by a gun. It’s time to give law enforcement the tools to prevent this violence and provide a record of accountability for those who seek to do others harm.”
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC (January 11, 2019) - Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and State Assemblyman Andrew Zwicker issued the following statements in response to a planned rally of white supremacists on Saturday in Princeton. “The freedom of speech that protects you and me unfortunately protects the right of those who have planned a white supremacist rally in our community this weekend. While they may come to spout hate and division, I’m confident they will quickly learn that our neighborhoods offer few sympathetic ears. I am proud of those in Princeton who reject this kind of bigotry and inhumanity, choosing to respond with love and inclusivity. I know many in Princeton will want to confront hate and stand up for their friends, classmates and colleagues. If you do I implore you to protest peacefully. Don’t let their hate poison your own heart. Show them that Princeton rejects hate and violence.” - Congresswoman Watson Coleman "These few people who choose to spout their hatred want to divide us. They will not and cannot ever prevail here in Princeton, the state, or the country as a whole, because an attack on our neighbors is not just an attack on our neighborhoods, but our humanity. There is no room in our community for those who would choose hate, bigotry, and ignorance over love, empathy, and understanding. I will stand with my community this Saturday, as we peacefully demonstrate that diversity and compassion for each other is far mightier than those white supremacists who have chosen to gather because, hate has no home here." - Assemblyman Andrew Zwicker “Seeing blatant acts of bigotry and hatred like the rally planned for Saturday really infuriates me – especially when they’re happening in my own backyard. This behavior does not represent the values we stand for in New Jersey and it will never be welcomed here.” - Assemblyman Roy Freiman ###
01.09.2019	As she begins her third term in the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) has been nominated by the Democratic Steering Committee to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, one of the most powerful committees in the House, responsible for setting funding levels for federal departments and agencies. “The decisions made in the Appropriations Committee are a direct representation of our national values,” said Watson Coleman. “What we find important becomes evident in the choice between purchasing more military equipment or adequately funding the EPA inspectors that ensure our communities have clean water and air, and whether we repair our roads and invest in infrastructure or pay for grants for oil and gas companies to find new ways to drill and damage our environment.” “In joining this committee, I will continue to fight for the values my constituents elected me to represent — the needs of working families, the protection of our environment, and policies that advance fair economic growth. I look forward to working with my colleagues to achieve these goals in the 116th Congress.” The Appropriations Committee wields the constitutional “power of the purse,” and is responsible for annual spending legislation that sets the budgets of federal agencies and programs. While spending bills must pass both the House and Senate, they are first drafted and approved in the House. The committee is also among the “exclusive” committees of the House, requiring its members to request a special waiver to serve on any other committee. “House Appropriations is one of the most storied and vital committees in all of Congress. Bonnie Watson Coleman’s appointment to the panel is a recognition by her colleagues of her importance in the caucus, her work ethic, and her dedication,” Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ), a member of the Steering Committee. “New Jersey always has to work extra hard for support in Washington, but Bonnie will be a champion for us to make sure the Garden State is getting its fair share, something extra important as the Gateway Project takes shape. I was proud to nominate Bonnie before the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, and I’m even prouder to serve with her.” “Bonnie’s commitment to New Jersey is steadfast, her experience in the nuance of appropriations is proven, and her mission to uphold values in every vote she takes is a testament to the kind of leader she is,” said New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy. “Having her on the appropriations committee is a win for our state in a big way. New Jersey needs someone who will fight to make sure we get a fair share of federal dollars. There’s no one better for the job than Bonnie.” Watson Coleman would join the Appropriations Committee with a uniquely experienced background, having served as Chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee while in the New Jersey General Assembly. She would be the first woman ever to serve on the Committee from the state of New Jersey, and would be just the fifth African American woman. With the retirement of Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), who had chaired the committee for the past two years, Watson Coleman would be the only federal appropriator from New Jersey in either party, one of the most populous states in the country and one that receives less than one dollar in federal spending and assistance for every dollar paid by residents in taxes. As paths to funding vital regional infrastructure like the Gateway project remain under discussion, Watson Coleman’s appointment would ensure New Jersey’s interests are represented in federal appropriations bills. Watson Coleman received unanimous support to be appointed to the committee from every Democrat in the regional delegation, which includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
12.12.2018	Following reports that Congress may move to pass a criminal justice reform bill before the end of the year, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) today sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging them to ensure the final measure that reaches the House floor includes a ban on private prisons. “The use of private prisons erodes the public’s faith in the integrity of American sentencing policy, leaving them to wonder if the impetus for lengthy mandatory minimums, or forcibly detaining immigrant children, is an evidence-based solution, or just submission to the will of private companies profiting from those incidences of imprisonment,” Watson Coleman and Grijalva wrote. “If this body is to consider a criminal justice reform bill, it must focus on ensuring sentences are fair. It must seek to remove bias. It must find ways to better rehabilitate prisoners and prepare them for society – keeping them closer to their families and training them for jobs when they’ve finished their sentences. It must find ways to remove the stigma and bias that follow the formerly incarcerated after they have served their time. We ask you to ensure that we vote on a criminal justice reform bill that truly delivers on the promise of reform — and for it to do that and all of the above, it must ban for-profit prisons.” Both Watson Coleman and Grijalva have been outspoken in efforts to reform the prison, rehabilitation and re-entry elements in the US criminal justice system. Watson Coleman is the author of the End For-Profit Prisons Act, legislation that would require the Department of Justice to phase out its contracts with private prison and community confinement companies, and requires federal employees to perform core correctional services – including housing, and disciplining offenders, at correctional facilities used by the Bureau of Prisons or the U.S. Marshal Service. Grijalva is the author of the Justice is Not For Sale Act, which bans private prisons, private detention centers, and contracts with private transportation companies; ends family detention; and removes ICE’s daily mandate to fill 34,000 beds with detainees. To view full letter, click here.
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC (December 11, 2018) – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement after the President and Vice President met with Democratic Leadership about the approaching government budget shutdown. "What we saw today was a President, someone who considers himself “a leader,” throwing a tantrum when told he couldn’t get everything he wants. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I take border security very seriously. However, it is in the name of our security that I remain opposed to the President’s ill-conceived and prohibitively expensive plan for a border wall. There are dynamic, modern day surveillance and enforcement techniques that can secure our border. A boneheaded wall across our southern border is not one of them. In addition to the wastefulness of effort and resources it would take to build Trump’s wall, any plan to build it will bear hidden astronomical costs both to staff it and maintain it every year after it’s complete. "The American people spoke on November 6. They sent a Democratic majority to Congress and they entrusted a Democratic Congress to address the border. The American people have firmly rejected Trump’s boondoggle of a wall. In fact, all but one border district will send a Democrat to Congress. If Donald Trump wants to bet a disruptive government shutdown on his foolish obsession with a border wall, then that’s his prerogative. But, he should look for 218 votes from the 236 Republicans that still control Congress for the time being – not to me or any other Democrat. I will not be voting for Trump’s wall under any circumstances."
11.26.2018	EWING, NJ (November 26, 2018) – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement after Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents fired tear gas at refugees seeking asylum in the U.S. at the San Ysidro border crossing. “Yesterday was a dark day for America. Donald Trump sanctioned the use of teargas on hundreds of men, women & children at the U.S. border to further bolster his own lies and grandstanding about the nature of these people and their motivations. The migrants at the border right now are refugees fleeing unthinkable violence in their home countries. To greet them with tear gas and threats of lethal force is abhorrent. “Every day Donald Trump reaches new lows in his disdain for immigrants and people of color around the world. Let’s be clear: this so-called “crisis” at the border is an illusion that has been ginned up by Donald Trump and his sycophants to further his disgusting anti-immigrant agenda. The reckless violence by the U.S. government on our own border is wanton and disgraceful. “At the end of World War II, the United States accepted its role as a world leader. As part of that leadership, it has taken in more refugees and asylum seekers than any other nation. Twenty-two percent of New Jersey’s residents began their journey in another country, including 108,000 children. These people are seeking the same safe harbor, and deserve our compassion, not violence. “Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, the nations from which most of these refugees have fled, have faced systematic violence as a result of decades of political instability due, in part, to US political intervention. For much of the 20th Century, it has been US policy – both official and unofficial – to prop up authoritarian regimes in Central America in order to protect our own agricultural interests. From backing leaders that perpetrated civilian bombings to interventions that resulted in our own forces training eventual terrorists, the US contributed directly to the instability and violence these refugees are now running from. El Salvador and Honduras rank number 1 and 2 in murder rate worldwide with Guatemala coming in at number 15. The 500-mile stretch of Central America is perhaps the deadliest piece of land outside of an active warzone. “For years, our nation has welcomed immigrants because we recognize both the growth and promise they bring and the moral duty we have towards our fellow human beings. One does not walk 2,700 miles merely seeking a ‘better life.’ These refugees are trying to save their lives and those of their families. They are seeking asylum. We must recognize the humanity in those who’ve arrived at our shores, tired, poor and yearning to breathe free, and welcome them to take part in the grand experiment that is America.” ###
11.05.2018	Today, Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ-06), Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Bill Pascrell Jr. (NJ-09), Albio Sires (NJ-08), and Donald Norcross (NJ-01) released a new report from the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee documenting the tremendous financial burden of the Republican Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on current and prospective New Jersey homeowners. According to the report, approximately 2,035,000 homeowners currently living in New Jersey will lose the ability to claim deductions for interest on home equity loans they use for any purposes other than home improvement. Meanwhile, the law’s significant tax breaks for commercial real estate developers will hand them more than $66.7 billion over the next year, totaling $3.7 billion in lost tax revenue in 2019 alone. “This report underscores what we have known all along,” said Sen. Menendez. “The Trump tax scheme has never been anything but a big, fat giveaway to corporations and millionaires at the expense of New Jersey’s middle class homeowners. It’s shameful how Republicans have aided and abetted this president in taking a wrecking ball to the financial security of working families, driving up the debt and handing the bill to our children and grandchildren.” “This report demonstrates exactly what we have known, what we have said over and over, and why not a single Democrat voted for this bill ­­­­— it is a terrible deal, a scam in the truest sense of the word, for the people of our state and well beyond,” said Watson Coleman. “The tax law was a thinly veiled giveaway to the millionaire friends of this president that will do permanent damage to the financial stability of working families, and only makes worse the growing economic inequality paralyzing this country.” “This report once again confirms that the GOP tax scam has been a disaster for New Jersey,” said Pallone. “By limiting deductions linked to homeownership, 75,000 of my constituents will find it more difficult to make ends meet because they can no longer fully deduct their property taxes. We should be striving to help working families and make it easier for them to achieve the dream of home ownership, instead Republicans are giving huge tax breaks to the wealthiest of Americans and large corporations.” “The Trump tax scam was an attack on New Jersey,” said Payne, Jr. “New Jersey homeowners and aspiring homeowners deserve a tax plan that puts their interests ahead of big corporations.” “In case we need any more evidence the GOP Tax Scam was designed to hurt middle-class New Jerseyans, here it is,” said Pascrell, New Jersey’s only member on the tax writing House Ways and Means Committee. “In addition to stealing the state and local tax deductions New Jerseyans have used for years to foot medical bills, tuition payments and family vacations, here are the numbers proving the GOP Tax Scam harmed New Jersey homeowners too. It’s no wonder Republicans are sprinting away from their so-called signature achievement. This scam was jammed into law to enrich House Republicans’ corporate donors and executives – paid for by tens of millions of middle-class New Jerseyans. It was supported by some congressmen from the Northeast and even our own state for reasons I can’t comprehend, as these members voted to hurt their own constituents and states. Thank you Bonnie Watson Coleman and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings for your work in helping expose the thievery of the GOP Tax Scam.” “The consequences of the GOP tax law continue to grow even more outrageous. As this report points out, New Jersey homeowners have used deductions for home equity and mortgages for years to stabilize their family’s finances and prepare for the future,” said Sires. “Eliminating these financial tools for average Americans and heaping rewards on real estate developers and golf course owners amounts to a punishment for the middle class. Congress must act fast to provide real relief for middle-class homeowners, not a deceitful attack.” “It’s clear Republicans in Congress chose to reward their billionaire buddies at the expense of New Jersey homeowners, and now nearly 80,000 people in the first district alone are losing the full tax deductions they rely on,” said Norcross. “While Republicans keep voting to screw hardworking Americans, Trump golf clubs and other corporations get to keep their full deductions. The hypocrisy is outrageous. Trump and Republicans added trillions to the debt and had the middle class foot the bill, when what we need is more jobs, higher wages and real tax relief for New Jersey families.” The report finds that: Beginning this year, approximately 322,000 homeowners in New Jersey with existing home equity loans will not be allowed to claim the full home equity interest deductions they were previously eligible for; and Although 1,618,000 homeowners in New Jersey used to be able to deduct their full property taxes, more than half – a total of 945,000 – will no longer be allowed to do so. The full report is available for download here.
10.29.2018	Following the shooting of two African Americans outside of Louisville, Kentucky last week and Saturday’s mass shooting at the Pittsburgh-area Tree of Life Synagogue, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement: “Gun violence of every kind has become a plague in this country, but there is a deeper and more sinister darkness that follows hate crimes. My heart breaks for the congregation at Tree of Life, and I join countless Americans lifting prayers of comfort and condolence to the friends and families of victims in both of these disgusting acts of hate. “For some time now, law enforcement officials have tried to warn us about the threat of domestic terrorists — individuals motivated not by radicalization from some foreign threat, but by a disturbed view of the amazing diversity of religion, race, ethnicity and culture that makes our country so special. The willingness of some of our nation’s highest ranking elected officials to toss around slurs, embrace conspiracy theories, and repeat falsehoods is troubling alone. Combined with the failure to identify and address the rise of these domestic threats, we are setting the stage for more violence aimed at minorities. “I take comfort in the outpouring of solidarity shown by so many Americans who recognize that our similarities and shared humanity outweigh our differences, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to prevent acts of violence and hate like these in the future.”
10.17.2018	In a letter sent today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) led 11 members of the U.S. House of Representatives urging Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to cancel plans to attend Saudi Arabia’s Future Investment Initiative conference in light of concerns that the Saudi government is responsible for the alleged murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. “Considering the seriousness of the accused crimes, we need to review the details surrounding the incident before moving forward in our bilateral relationship with the Saudi government,” the letter reads. Many American companies and media outlets — including Google, Uber, JP Morgan, Ford Motor Company, the New York Times, and CNN — have already pulled out of the conference, scheduled to take place next week in Riyadh. Members who joined the letter include Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Frank Pallone Jr., Filemon Vela, James P. McGovern, Alicee Hastings, Yvette D. Clarke, Jaime Raskin, Earl Blumenauer, Raul M. Grijalva, Steve Cohen, and Ro Khanna. The full text of the letter is available here and below: The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin: We strongly urge you not to attend the Future Investment Initiative conference in Riyadh in light of the disappearance and alleged murder of Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi officials in their consulate in Istanbul. As you are aware, Mr. Khashoggi disappeared after entering the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul on October 2, 2018. While the mounting evidence suggests the involvement of 15 Saudi officials in the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, a vocal critic of the Saudi government and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, many questions still remain unanswered. According to Freedom House, a nonpartisan think-tank, global print, broadcast, and digital media freedom has reached its lowest point in 13 years due to, “unprecedented threats to journalists and media outlets in major democracies and new moves by authoritarian states to control the media, including beyond their borders.” The US has long valued the fundamental principles of press freedom and free speech and continuing to show support for a regime without seeking accountability for horrific crimes like the alleged execution of a journalist would be antithetical to democratic values. The crown prince has a long history of showing little tolerance for critics of his government, and we cannot continue to turn a blind eye for the convenience of short-term economic gains from arms agreements, as suggested by President Trump. As the Crown Prince prepares for his Future Investment Initiative conference in Riyadh next week, we strongly urge you to reconsider your participation. Many American companies and media outlets including Google, Uber, JP Morgan, Ford Motor Company, the New York Times, and CNN have already pulled out of the conference in light of Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance. Considering the seriousness of the accused crimes, we must request and review the details surrounding the incident before moving forward in our bilateral relationship with the Saudi government. Pending a thorough investigation that provides truthful answers to Mr. Khashoggi’s whereabouts, I encourage you to suspend any trips and meetings with Saudi officials. Thank you for your consideration of this important issue. Sincerely, BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN Member of Congress
09.28.2018	In an effort to incentivize corporate practices that will grow wages for those below the C-suite, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) today introduced the Employee Profit-Sharing Encouragement Act, legislation that would require companies with more than $25 million in annual earnings to set up profit sharing plans in order to be eligible for certain tax breaks. The Employee Profit-Sharing Encouragement Act would bar companies that meet the threshold of $25 million in earnings from deducting executive compensation expenses unless those companies institute a profit-sharing plan. At least five percent of qualifying companies’ annual net income would be used to provide cash payments to employees who’ve been with the company for one year or more. The bill is narrowly tailored to cover only large businesses, exempting 99.7 percent of American companies to ensure no small businesses are held to an unmanageable standard. The remaining .3 percent of companies employ 51 percent of American workers — meaning an estimated 65.4 million individuals would see their pay increase immediately under this legislation. “We have massive companies boosting salaries for their executives and shelling out funds to shareholders, ignoring the majority of their workers and contributing to the national crisis of wage stagnation that’s keeping people out of the middle class. That’s a problem that we have the tools to solve and requiring profit sharing is one way we can do it,” said Watson Coleman. “Our tax code is riddled with giveaways for corporations, everything from letting companies borrow from offshore subsidiaries to deductions for ‘manufacturing’ claimed for making burgers or grinding coffee, and Republicans have used their tax scams to add even more. For all the breaks they get, these companies can and should be investing in their workers — and since they’re unwilling to do so on their own, it’s time for Congress to step in for the people.” The Employee Profit-Sharing Encouragement Act ensures fair treatment in profit sharing plans across all employees with provisions similar to the rules already applied to 401k plans, specifically requiring the average amount of distributions to non-highly-compensated employees to remain in a reasonable range of distributions made to highly-compensated employees — preventing companies from gaming the system by sharing more of their profits with the executives who already make the highest salaries. In addition to increasing real wages for employees, profit-sharing plans have also been proven to benefit the company. Recent data shows an increase in worker productivity of between 4-5% after implementation of a profit-sharing plan. With income inequality and wage stagnation at all-time highs for middle class families even as high-wage earners have seen stratospheric increases in pay, Employee Profit-Sharing Encouragement Act would help level the playing field and ensure more American families feel the benefits of economic growth. To view the text of the bill, click here.
09.26.2018	My core belief in equality is one of the reasons I first decided to run for Congress. My belief that we all deserve a fair shot extends to every corner of the things that shape our lives, including the notion that your income, social status, occupation or lack of an occupation should not determine your access to quality, affordable healthcare. The fight for that access recently became a deeply personal commitment when my doctor found a small, irregular spot on one of my lungs during a routine checkup. After explaining my family history, my doctor agreed with my request for a PET scan, and because I believe in God, my family and I came together in fervent prayer even before we knew the outcome. Prayer changes things, and with a brief procedure to remove what turned out to be a small tumor, I’m blessed to be cancer-free today. I have begun a treatment plan to ensure that the cancer does not return. Still, like the 1.7 million Americans diagnosed with cancer each year, I was struck by the sudden sense of my own mortality — questioning how much longer I’d be able to perform routine and mundane daily tasks rather than dreading them, wondering how many more times I’d play with my youngest granddaughter, or spend time with my husband. Early detection played an essential role in my outcome. Without the ability to see my doctor to find that tumor in the first place, without the coverage to quickly schedule a major medical procedure, without the ability to afford the drugs that will make sure that cancer doesn’t return, I wouldn’t be able to share this story. My own advocacy for further testing was equally critical, and while my doctors were responsive to my concerns, many Black women don’t have the same experience and it contributes to the disparities we face. It’s repeated over and over that a routine check-up can save your life. It’s been noted in dozens of reports that black women are frequently dismissed, under-screened or inadvertently and negatively stereotyped when we seek care. I’m now a testament to both. 12.2 Percent of Americans don’t have health insurance. They’re not going in for a checkup. They’re not able to pay the thousands of dollars surgical procedures cost. They can’t afford any medical treatment, let alone the best or most advanced. For them, a toothache could lead to a brain infection. The lapse in a vital medication that’s too expensive could lead to a relapse or worse. A spot on a lung could go unseen long enough for it to be too late. And if Serena William’s post-partum story is any indication, once you’re in front of a doctor, self-advocacy is vital — especially for Black women. We have to stop pretending these things aren’t problems. This episode in my life has fortified my resolve to make sure that all Americans have access to world class health care — and in our country, for the time being, that means health insurance. This shouldn’t be a Democratic or Republican platform. It should be an American principle that crosses party lines. I came to Congress intent on protecting the Affordable Care Act not because it was perfect, but because I believe America is better off when more of us have health insurance. My recent experience makes it clear to me that Congress must prioritize keeping our constituents healthy, not treating them once they’re ill. Keeping them healthy means policies that ensure premiums and co-pays are reasonable enough to incentivize preventive care while healthy, rather than treatment because costs are so high people avoid seeing a doctor until they are too sick to do otherwise. Congress should be stepping up to lead across a host of issues right now, but this is among the most important. Americans deserve a health care system in which those who need help are not forced to choose between life-saving healthcare and avoiding bankruptcy. They deserve to be saved if there’s a drug or treatment on the market that can do so, not if their health insurance plan covers it. Healthcare should not be denied to children, the elderly or those with preexisting illness. Government and business should be as diligent in assisting individuals to afford quality healthcare as they are in partnering to find cures for disease. Doctors shouldn’t put so much weight on race or socioeconomic status that they miss the chance to save a life with the correct diagnosis — but until they do better, we should have the tools and knowledge to advocate for our own care. These are the values that I first came here to support, and these are the values that my diagnosis has pushed me to champion to colleagues on both sides of the aisle. Because for every story that ends like mine, there are others that will end tragically until we work together to fix healthcare for everyone.
09.25.2018	Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) introduced new legislation that seeks to address growing economic divisions by making caregivers and students pursuing higher education or advanced degrees eligible to receive the Federal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). The EITC Modernization Act of 2018 would increase financial stability for these two groups, while also making innovative updates to the EITC program. “We know that the economy isn’t working for people, we know that wages are stagnant, and we know that it’s getting harder and harder for average families to make ends meet. We also know that the EITC works to close those gaps, so expanding eligibility to those seeking better paychecks through higher education or working the equivalent of a part-time job to care for a family member just makes sense,” said Watson Coleman. “These folks work long hours and multiple jobs to have enough income to cover day to day expenses. If we can cut taxes for billionaires and corporations, we should be chomping at the bit to help people striving for the middle class.” The EITC is a refundable tax credit for low- and moderate-income working individuals, primarily focused on couples with children. It reduces the amount of tax that that individual would owe with the possibility of receiving a refund after filing taxes. Watson Coleman’s bill would extend eligibility for this credit to caregivers and independent students pursuing higher or vocational education, providing a measure of financial stability to both groups that will help drive economic growth across the communities in which they reside. Caregivers, who are primarily women, provided roughly $3.2 trillion in unpaid care in the United States in 2012. A recent study by the National Alliance for Caregiving and AARP found nearly 40 million Americans are providing unpaid care, with another five million caregivers expected to be added by 2020. 61 percent of these individuals report making changes such as cutting back on their paid working hours, changing jobs, stopping work entirely, taking a leave of absence, or other related changes because of their caregiving role, contributing to higher rates of financial instability. Concurrently, students seeking higher-paid career paths often struggle with the real-time costs and future debt of the education they need to achieve their dreams. Roughly three million students eligible for Pell grants in the 2016-2017 school year, more than 30 percent of whom have dependents, would have received the EITC under this bill. "The working and middle-class in our country are long overdue for tax reform that benefits them, rather than the status quo that keeps funneling wealth to the very top," said Chris Hughes, co-chair of the Economic Security Project. "Modernizing the tax code to provide monthly tax credits to hardworking Americans will offer a much-needed influx of cash to stabilize and strengthen the financial lives of millions of families." In addition to broadening eligibility, the EITC Modernization Act of 2018 would: Set a minimum baseline EITC payment for students and caregivers of $100 a month ($1,200 a year); Create an option for recipients to receive their benefits monthly, to help cover day-to-day expenses as they arise and; Fund the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program, which offers free tax help to people who generally make $54,000 or less, to ensure working Americans can get the help that they need. “This bill begins to recognize that the overlooked and often thankless work of caregiving is essential to our society. Until we have more robust paid leave policy, like the FAMILY Act, valuing their contributions through the EITC is critical,” Watson Coleman added. “The evidence on the EITC is clear: when we provide cash to low- and middle-income families, poverty declines. But today’s EITC largely leaves many people out,” said Elaine Maag, senior research associate at the Urban Institute. “Workers without custodial children have to be at least 25 to qualify, and then only qualify for a very small credit over a very small income range. This proposal would expand the EITC both by increasing the credit for these workers and lowering the eligibility age to 18. Low-income students would also be included in the credit, which could provide significant financial relief as they attend college. Changes such as these would make the credit more fair and lift additional people out of poverty.” "The EITC Modernization Act makes significant progress in compensating for the valuable work of taking care of family members,” said Sarita Gupta, co-executive director of Jobs With Justice and co-director of Caring Across Generations. “In our country, over 40 million family caregivers provide uncompensated care valued at over $470 billion annually. Family caregivers, just like me, spend close to $7,000, on average, in out-of-pocket expenses a year. The financial and time burden of caregiving especially hits Black, white and Latina women who provide care to their loved ones hard. We applaud Representative Watson Coleman for initiating a tax benefit that would help provide a measure of relief to working people, instead of just the wealthiest and most well-connected." Original Cosponsors of the EITC Modernization Act of 2018 include: Reps. Ro Khanna (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Darren Soto (D-FL), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Karen Bass (D-CA), Nanette Diaz Barragan (D-CA), Al Lawson (D-FL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD). To see the text of the bill, click here.
09.04.2018	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the TSA National Deployment Force Act, legislation introduced by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the Homeland Security Committee which formally authorizes the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) National Deployment Force (NDF), ensuring the continued work of the NDF and allowing for congressional oversight of its activities. TSA’s NDF program is a volunteer force of Transportation Security Officers deployed nationwide to wherever challenges, planned events, emergencies or other gaps in staffing might threaten TSA’s ability to carry out its homeland security mission. “TSA deploys the NDF to address hiring difficulties, seasonal demands, severe weather conditions, and periods of relief and recovery following a natural disaster or other major incident…In particular, the NDF was critical to ensuring TSA could continue operating fully in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy after that storm devastated my region of the country,” Watson Coleman said on the House Floor. “My bill authorizes the NDF to ensure its work continues and directs TSA to report to Congress on the NDF’s activities to ensure proper oversight.” To watch floor debate and passage of the TSA National Deployment Force Act, click here.
07.24.2018	Washington, DC (July 24, 2018) – Today, Reps. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Ro Khanna (D-CA) each introduced legislation to ensure that every jobless worker in the country is given the opportunity to earn a living. Despite the low official unemployment rate, 8 million Americans who want work cannot find jobs. Meanwhile, nearly 4.7 million Americans who want full-time work can only find part-time jobs. Reps. Watson Coleman and Khanna have each introduced legislation that would take real action in getting more Americans into jobs that will give them access to the middle class. Introduced by Rep. Watson Coleman, The Federal Jobs Guarantee Development Act of 2018, H.R. 6467, creates a pilot program within the Department of Labor to test the impact of a federal job guarantee in 15 high-unemployment communities across the country. Within these test sites, any adult resident seeking employment would be matched with a job in an understaffed field, including senior- and childcare, infrastructure, and community revitalization, infusing resources that will improve American communities while increasing access to jobs. “Working to help your family succeed, working to get ahead financially, working to build your own version of the American dream is a foundational element of our national values. But it requires the chance to work, and for many people, that chance is out of reach,” said Watson Coleman. “This measure would build economic security for working families and grow our country’s middle class, while placing workers in industries with real need and filling obvious employment gaps. Elected officials often talk a big game about job creation — this bill is about walking the walk and putting people back to work.” The Federal Jobs Guarantee Development Act of 2018 is a House companion to legislation introduced by Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ). Jobs created through the program will include a minimum wage phased to $15/hour, paid family and sick leave, and health coverage like that enjoyed by Members of Congress. The bill also expands the Work Opportunity Tax Credit to incentivize private employers to recruit and hire participants out of the pilot program. Introduced by Rep. Ro Khanna, the Job Opportunities for All Act provides federal funding to put people to work immediately in both the public and the private sector. It seeks to fulfill its namesake’s call for the “right to a useful and remunerative job in the industries or shops or farms or mines of the Nation” – the first component of President Roosevelt’s visionary Economic Bill of Rights. “In the richest country on earth, no one should be denied the opportunity to earn a living. 75 years after President Roosevelt recognized this fundamental right, it is time to act. This pragmatic and comprehensive legislation will accomplish his vision. The bill provides the tools to get our people back to work, whether one is laid off due to a factory closing, is a victim of racial discrimination, or has faced a long battle with homelessness,” said Rep. Khanna. The Job Opportunities for All Act would appropriate funds for the Department of Labor to administer competitive grant programs for the hardest hit communities, and matching funds to states that invest in direct job creation proposals. Funding may be used for wraparound services that help the most vulnerable jobseekers overcome barriers to employment, or for training aimed at achieving an industry-recognized credential. The legislation builds on the success of 40 years of subsidized jobs programs, including President Obama’s Recovery Act TANF Emergency Fund, which placed 260,000 at-risk individuals into jobs at the height of the Great Recession, as well as successful programs in Europe. The bill prioritizes state and local efforts that focus ending the longstanding racial unemployment gap, as well as targeting areas afflicted by the opioid crisis – an epidemic that has been linked to joblessness. Unionized workplaces are given additional incentives to bring in new employees. Praise for The Federal Jobs Guarantee Development Act of 2018 “Our economy and our federal and state governments are increasingly focused on serving the needs of corporations and wealthy individuals at the expense of working people. The Federal Jobs Guarantee Development Act of 2018 is a much-needed breath of fresh air - a positive step toward building an economy that works for all, not just the privileged few.” — Jeannette Huezo, Executive Director, United for a Fair Economy “For far too long, concentrated and persistent unemployment has been tolerated as inevitable, rather than seen as a scourge that should be stamped out. This legislation will build the capacity to provide a crucial new tool in the fight against this type of unemployment: hiring people directly to work for the public good. It is a bold and welcome development.” — Dr. Josh Bivens, Director of Research, Economic Policy Institute “[The Federal Jobs Guarantee Development Act of 2018] represents a powerful step forward for the idea of a federal jobs guarantee, which would provide economic security and mobility for all Americans.” — Darrick Hamilton, Professor of Economics and Urban Policy at The New School “With growing appreciation of how our economy falls short in creating enough jobs for everyone, it makes all the sense in the world to test an ambitious community-based jobs guarantee that would boost employment opportunities, reduce poverty, and help meet community needs.” — Laura Tatum, Director of Jobs and Education at the Georgetown Center on Poverty and Inequality Original Cosponsors: Ro Khanna (CA-17), Bennie Thompson (MS-02), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Robin Kelly (IL-02), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Joyce Beatty (OH-3), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Andre Carson (IN-07), William Lacy Clay (MO-01), Emmanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Al Green (TX-09) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), John Lewis (GA-05), Donald McEachin (VA-04), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (DC-At Large), Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Stacey Plaskett (VI-At Large), Bobby Rush (IL-01), David Scott (GA-13), Robert A. Brady (PA-01), Raul Grijalva (AZ-3), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Dwight Evans (PA-2), Frederica Wilson (FL-24) Praise for the Job Opportunities for All Act “Rep. Khanna did his homework and came up with a smart, ambitious jobs plan based on our knowledge of how to most effectively and efficiently provide employment opportunities to the people and places left behind, even at low national unemployment. It’s a plan that will finally get us to truly full employment, where everyone gets a chance to realize their economic potential, including those who’ve long faced steep labor market barriers.” — Jared Bernstein, former top economic advisor to Vice President Joe Biden, co-author of “Getting Back to Full Employment” "There are many causes of unemployment. Having a one size fits-all approach of solving unemployment can have unanticipated bad consequences. An important component that Representative Khanna adds to the mix is the ability to grease the friction in creating jobs in the private sector and facilitating moving people into private sector employment. When a sector is rebounding from a cyclical decline, having a tool that can speed the transition of workers into an expanding sector is vital." — William Spriggs, Professor of Economics at Howard University and the former Assistant Secretary for Policy at the U.S. Department of Labor under President Obama, and Executive Director-designate of the Federal Commission for Employment Policy under President Clinton "The thoughtful jobs proposal from Ro Khanna […] and the robust conversation/debate to get details right, is proof of how much progressives care about bold jobs proposals and making sure they actually work.” — Gene Sperling, Former Director, National Economic Council, Clinton Administration 1996-2001, Obama Administration 2011-2014 “The U.S. economy has worked off most (not all, but most) of the excess cyclical unemployment generated by the Great Recession and too-slow recovery. But even if this cyclical unemployment is completely erased, there will be large pockets of structural unemployment remaining. Representative Ro Khanna has a genuinely ambitious proposal for overcoming barriers to work faced by too many – whether these barriers are caused by discrimination, spatial mismatch, informational asymmetries, or skills-mismatch. As a society, we have never attacked the problem of chronic joblessness with the seriousness it deserves. Representative Khanna’s plan is what getting serious about this problem looks like.” — Josh Bivens, Economic Policy Institute “Even as we hit 50-year lows for the unemployment rate it is clear that many workers are still left behind. Rep. Khanna has designed a thoughtful plan that can help many of these workers get jobs that will give them the skills and experience needed to get by without government support. If we want to ensure that everyone has a fair chance in our society, this is the direction in which we need to be looking.” -Dean Baker, Senior Economist at Center for Economic and Policy Research, co-author of “Getting Back to Full Employment” "There is no reason why our nation cannot create decent, productive jobs where we need them most and for the people who need them most. This proposal represents as much ambition and innovation as it reflects serious, practical ideas. It would make a real dent in shrinking our country's racial disparities, advancing economic security and opportunity for many who are locked out of job opportunities. By marshaling proven strategies and pushing boundaries to test new approaches, this proposal would help communities facing longstanding disinvestment and today's working families, including those of us who need a foundation of basic services and supports like childcare and transportation to allow us to succeed on the job." — Indivar Dutta-Gupta, Co-Executive Director, Georgetown Center on Poverty and Inequality "Khanna's Jobs for All plan is straight out of the social democratic playbook. Countries like Denmark and Germany have been extending subsidized jobs to the long-term unemployed for decades. Reintegrating detached workers back into the mainstream labor force protects vulnerable and marginalized workers and subsidized jobs have a long track record of doing just that." — Matt Bruenig, People’s Policy Project Original Cosponsors: Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Bennie Thompson (MS-02)
07.05.2018	Recently we learned that President Trump is planning on holding one-on-one negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin when they meet in Helsinki on July 16. In the midst of an ongoing investigation into Russia’s meddling into US elections – one which has already led to more than 20 indictments—such a meeting is profoundly inappropriate and dangerous. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (Chaired by Republican Richard Burr) has confirmed the U.S. Intelligence community’s findings that Russia interfered with U.S. elections in 2016 and continues to do so. More so, the Committee report released on July 3rd concurred with assessments that the Russian influence campaign was approved by President Putin. Meanwhile, President Trump has regularly expressed deference to statements from the Kremlin as opposed to our own Intelligence agencies, throwing our own agencies under the bus at every chance he gets. Donald Trump refuses to put our nation above his fragile ego and glaring self-interest. Donald Trump’s conduct and objectives are increasingly baffling. Any President who continues to deny the role Russia played in the 2016 election and sides with Putin over our own agencies is in no position to objectively negotiate on behalf of the United States. International politics rest in a precarious balance. These meetings are being held at a uniquely sensitive time. This President is currently being investigated related to his, his campaign, and his senior aides’ role in the very election meddling that he refuses to acknowledge. We need someone negotiating on our behalf who fully grasps the threats on the world stage and is willing to make tough choices to protect the United States and its interests. Sadly, President Trump is woefully unqualified and uniquely unfit for this task. Vladimir Putin has been described by foreign policy experts as “a very disciplined negotiator.” I am actively exploring ways to prevent this President from being in a position to further capitulate to, be taken advantage of by, or even continue possible collusion with Mr. Putin. Congress has a responsibility to check this President and his Un-American conduct in order to protect the American people. Our democratic values and our credibility on the global stage are at stake. I intend to do everything in my power to do just that including calling on Oversight Committee Chair Gowdy as well as other relevant committee chairs to hold emergency hearings as soon as possible to get to the bottom of this situation.
06.27.2018	Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement following the Supreme Court’s 5 to 4 decision to overturn years of legal precedent and upend laws in 22 states, including New Jersey, placing new limits on collective bargaining: “The past two days have demonstrated the tremendous impact of the political games Mitch McConnell played to steal Merrick Garland’s Supreme Court seat. Today’s decision ignores decades of legal precedent to undermine the rights and fair pay of teachers, police officers, firefighters and more. This is a watershed moment in the stream of conservative efforts to rig the economy against working families, and I am deeply disturbed by the impact it will have on their ability to negotiate livable wages. “Unions are essential to a strong middle class; as Republican attacks on them have intensified, we’ve seen wages stagnate and that middle class shrink. I continue to stand with unions and the millions of workers they represent as we fight together for fair pay, access to healthcare, paid leave and the many other basic needs of working families.”
06.26.2018	Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman, Ranking Member of the Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee of the House Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement following the Supreme Court’s 5 to 4 decision to uphold President Trump’s Muslim ban: “We will look back at today’s Supreme Court ruling in Hawaii v. Trump as a deeply shameful moment in our country’s history. The United States was founded as a nation of immigrants. The base of the Statue of Liberty, just a few hundred yards from Jersey City reads, ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.’ The United States has long been a beacon of hope, salvation and opportunity for those fleeing oppression, hardship and violence. To reject this legacy is to reject what it means to be American, and the outright hostility and persecution of immigrants and asylum seekers of all kinds by this White House is a rejection of the values we should strive for. “The President’s travel ban, no matter what pretense used to validate it in court, is about discrimination. His statements on the campaign trail as well as those made by his staff at the White House have been clear: this is about banning Muslims from coming to our country, about the fear and stereotyping of the world’s second-largest faith. I strongly disagree with today’s ruling and will work with my colleagues to do whatever I can to stop this policy and any other that ignores the value of human life and importance of inclusion.”
06.26.2018	Ahead of National HIV Testing Day on June 27, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) has introduced a resolution supporting additional research and public education efforts on the usage of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for individuals at risk of contracting HIV. H.Res. 960 calls on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a department-wide review of the outreach efforts of all HIV prevention programs at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to ensure their information is reaching all Americans, particularly communities of color, gay and bisexual men, and transgender people. The resolution also calls on the Secretary to conduct a study on barriers to accessing PrEP medications, as well as services such as HIV and other sexually-transmitted infection screening among these high-risk populations in order to identify solutions. “We have the knowledge and tools to prevent new HIV infections, but that information is not reaching many of the people who need it most,” said Watson Coleman. “African Americans and Latinos make up a disproportionate and frankly alarming amount of new HIV diagnoses. We need to understand whether information about screening proven steps like PrEP medications, are reaching the people who need it most.” Among the more than 1.1 million Americans living with HIV there are vast disparities in the communities most affected. African Americans represent 14% of the US population but account for 44% of HIV diagnoses, while Latinos represent 18% of the US population and 25% of HIV diagnoses. PrEP, which refers to any drug that reduces the risk of contracting HIV, is currently prescribed as a daily, oral pill to individuals who do not have HIV and are at substantial risk of contracting the virus. It has been shown to reduce the risk of contracting HIV by up to 99 percent. Focused efforts to increase awareness of PrEP in these communities could help reduce new HIV diagnoses. To view the text of the resolution, click here. ###
06.19.2018	In a letter sent today to House Speaker Paul Ryan, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) requested recognition for victims of Sunday’s shooting at the Art All Night festival in Trenton in the form of votes on gun violence prevention legislation instead of observing a moment of silence on the House floor. “After the tragedies that have claimed lives in cities across the country, most recently Las Vegas, Parkland, Santa Fe, and Sutherland Springs, we tend to stand quietly in the midst of our normally busy votes to honor lives lost, memorializing their names in our records. But the American people want more — specifically, commonsense steps aimed at preventing incidents like these in the first place,” Watson Coleman wrote. The shooting, which took place early Sunday morning, left 22 injured and one dead. The letter lists more than 70 proposals that have been introduced but not yet scheduled for debate, including two proposals from Watson Coleman, The STOP Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2017 and the Handgun Licensing and Registration Act. Watson Coleman recently called for action from the floor of the House, shouting “your moment of silence doesn’t save one single solitary life. Do something!” following a moment of silence observed for victims of the shooting at Santa Fe High School in Texas. The full text of the letter is available here and below: June 19, 2018 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: Early Sunday morning, my congressional district became the most recent scene of a mass shooting when 22 people were injured and one was killed at a 24-hour art festival in Trenton. Like dozens of Members before me, I write this letter to draw attention to this incident and ask for recognition of these victims. Unlike other Members, I would like to request a vote in the House in lieu of any moment of silence. The scourge of gun violence continues to terrorize all of our constituents, whether they are at work or school, shopping for groceries, playing in parks, or attending community events like Art All Night, the festival at which Sunday’s shooting in Trenton took place. After the tragedies that have claimed lives in cities across the country, most recently Las Vegas, Parkland, Santa Fe, and Sutherland Springs, we tend to stand quietly in the midst of our normally busy votes to honor lives lost, memorializing their names in our records. But the American people want more — specifically, commonsense steps aimed at preventing incidents like these in the first place. I have participated in protests; I have spoken on the House floor; and I have signed letters and petitions calling for votes on gun violence prevention proposals. As my constituents deal with the aftermath of Sunday’s shooting, I urge you to act before any more lives are lost. There are a host of proposals that, with your leadership, could help us find a bipartisan solution to one of our nation’s greatest threats. I have introduced two bills, The STOP Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2017 (H.R. 3962) and the Handgun Licensing and Registration Act (H.R. 5607), each of which would help prevent more tragedies. There are also dozens of other bills that seek to address the various angles of this multifaceted problem, including: H.R. 4142 — The Safer Communities Act of 2017 H.R. 4290 — To require the Attorney General to study whether an individual’s history of domestic violence can be used to determine the likelihood of such individual committing a mass shooting. H.R. 163 — Gun Manufacturers Accountability Act H.Res. 367 — A Resolution Establishing the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention H.R. 4471— NICS Denial Notification Act of 2017 H.R. 4186 — Lori Jackson Domestic Violence Survivor Protection Act H.Con.Res. 66 — Expressing support for the designation of June 21 as National ASK (Asking Saves Kids) Day to promote children's health and gun safety H.R. 810 — Hadiya Pendleton and Nyasia Pryear-Yard Stop Illegal Trafficking in Firearms Act of 2017 H.R. 2033 — Undetectable Firearms Modernization Act H.R. 2841 — Disarm Hate Act H.R. 3984 — Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act H.R. 3013 — Help Communities Fight Violent Crime Act H.R. 3947 — Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act H.R. 3361 — SECURE Firearm Storage Act H.R. 4018 — To provide for a 3-day waiting period before a person may receive a handgun, with exceptions. H.R. 4342 — Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act H.R. 1692 — Countering Illegal Firearms Trafficking to Mexico Act H.R. 1111 — Department of Peacebuilding Act of 2017 H.R. 4343 — Unlawful Gun Buyer Alert Act H.R. 4025 — Multiple Firearm Sales Reporting Modernization Act of 2017 H.R. 5560 — Defective Firearms Protection Act HH.R. 4344 — End Purchase of Firearms by Dangerous Individuals Act of 2017 H.R. 3987 — Protecting Americans from Gun Violence Act of 2017 H.R. 1475 — Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2017 H.R. 5087 — Assault Weapons Ban H.R. 5383 — Ammunition Background Check Act of 2018 H.R. 1612 — Gun Show Loophole Closing Act of 2017 H.Res. 380 — Commemorating one year since the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida on June 12, 2016. H.R. 5077 — Assault Weapons Ban of 2018 H.R. 1708 — Firearm Risk Protection Act of 2017 H.R. 5257 — Secure Communities and Safe Schools Act H.R. 5225 — Strengthening the National Criminal Instant Background Check System Act of 2018 H.R. 1832 — To authorize the appropriation of funds to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for conduction or supporting research on firearms safety or gun violence prevention. H.R. 4052 — Keep Americans Safe Act H.R. 5461 — NICS Review Act of 2018 H.R. 2380 — Handgun Trigger Safety Act of 2017 H.R. 5490 — Handgun Purchaser Licensing Act H.R. 4786 — Protecting Communities from Lost or Stolen Law Enforcement Weapons Act of 2017 H.R. 4268 — Gun Safety: Not Sorry Act of 2017 H.R. 361 — Supporting the goals and ideals of “National Gun Violence Awareness Day” and “National Gun Violence Awareness Month” H.R. 5106 — Investor Choice Against Hun Proliferation Act H.R. 4650 — PROTECT Act H.R. 4573 — Gun Violence Research Act of 2017 H.R. 4192 — Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act of 2017 H.R. 2670 — Protecting Domestic Violence and Stalking Victims Act H.R. 5161 — To require the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service to submit to Congress an annual report on the effects of gun violence on public health. H.R. 1478 — Gun Violence Research Act H.R. 3458 — Make Identifiable Criminal Rounds Obvious Act H.R. 5162 — Firearms Safety Act of 2018 H.R. 2784 — Good Neighbor Gun Dealer Act H.R. 5090 — Raise the Age Act H.R. 5163 — Keeping Guns from High-Risk Individuals Act H.R. 4721 — Armor-Piercing Bullets Act of 2017 H.R. 2598 — Gun Violence Restraining Order Act of 2017 H.R. 57 — Accidental Firearms Transfers Reporting Act of 2017 H.Res 373 — Expressing support for the designation of June 2017 as “National Gun Violence Awareness Month” and calling on Congress to address gun violence H.R. 5398 — 21 to Buy Act H.R. 62 — Gun Violence Reduction Resources Act of 2017 H.R. 3613 — Safer Neighborhoods Gun Buyback Act of 2017 H.R. 630 — National Statistics on Deadly Force Transparency Act of 2017 H.R. 1982 — To authorize funding to increase access to mental health care treatment to reduce gun violence H.R. 2757 — Public Health Violence Prevention Act H.R. 4433 — Securing Department of Homeland Security Firearms Act of 2017 H.Res. 370 — Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to require that a standing committee (or subcommittee thereof) hearing be held whenever there is a moment of silence in the House for a tragedy involving gun violence H.R. 4153 — To amend title 18, United States Code, to improve safety and security for service weapons used by Federal law enforcement officers, and for other purposes. H.R. 5103— Gun Violence Prevention and Safe Communities Act of 2018 H.R. 3207 — Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act H.R. 445 — Buyback Our Safety Act H.R. 1079 — Campus Gun Policy Transparency Act H.R. 4240 — The Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2017 H.R. 1746 — Airport Security Act of 2017 H.R. 1983 — David’s Law H.Res 666 — Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to observe a 60-second moment of silence in the House for those killed by gun violence in the United States on the next legislative day after any such individual dies. H.Res. 90 — Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that gun violence is a public health issue and Congress should enact by the end of the 115th Congress comprehensive Federal legislation that protects the Second Amendment and keeps communities safe and healthy, including expanding enforceable background checks for all commercial gun sales, improving the mental health system in the United States, and making gun trafficking and straw purchasing a Federal crime. Each of these bills could be part of the larger solution needed to prevent gun violence. Just as important, their debate and consideration would show that this body is willing to work toward protecting our constituents. In contrast moments of silence are not solutions and they do nothing to address the problems facing our communities. They do not acknowledge the destructive and lasting impact of gun violence, nor the immense pain felt by the families and friends who’ve lost loved ones. I urge you to allow Congress to debate and vote on any or all the above bills. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request, the desires of my constituents, and the safety of all Americans. Sincerely, BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN Member of Congress ###
06.17.2018	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement on the shooting at the Art All Night festival in Trenton: “I am saddened and angered at the violence that took place at Art All Night early this morning, and I am praying for all of the families involved, but as I’ve said before, that’s not enough. After every shooting, we talk about motive, mental illness and every other distraction from the real problem — guns. “New Jersey has some of the strongest gun safety legislation in the country. That should make it very clear that this is a problem we can only solve at the national level, with Congress leading the way. Despite all of our state’s efforts, New Jersey is not an island — we can’t make our neighborhoods safe as long as guns can come in across a bridge or state line, from Pennsylvania or North Carolina. There has to be federal action. So many times since being elected to Congress, I’ve begged people to take this seriously. As it comes home to my own district, I’m heartbroken at what we could have prevented last night. Dozens of the congressmen and women I work with every day have gotten the call I got this morning alerting them to a shooting in their district. For anyone that hasn’t, I’m asking to work with you now, before it happens to you. There are bills ready for consideration right now. We just need to be brave enough to call for votes.”
06.13.2018	As the House prepares to vote on more than 20 bills aimed at fighting the opioid epidemic over the next two weeks, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) announced a resolution that seeks parity in the treatment of drug use and addiction and a formal apology for the War on Drugs. share: f t As the House prepares to vote on more than 20 bills aimed at fighting the opioid epidemic over the next two weeks, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) announced a resolution that seeks parity in the treatment of drug use and addiction and a formal apology for the War on Drugs. H.Res. 933 expresses the sense of Congress that the War on Drugs failed, and calls out the disparate treatment of individuals criminalized for drug use — frequently people of color who used crack and cocaine — to ensure that all future drug policy is based on evidence-based healthcare solutions. “The War on Drugs didn’t just fail to stem the damage of addiction, its very declaration failed to meet the values of equality and justice our nation was founded on,” said Watson Coleman. “Congress has rightly decided to tackle the opioid epidemic with evidence-based policies that seek to solve the issue of addiction. But for years, we criminalized addiction in ways that caused irreparable harm not just to users, but their families, neighborhoods, and communities. As we offer up funding and resources to address the disease of addiction among overwhelmingly White users, we must acknowledge our failures to do the same with victims of color.” H.Res 933 specifically acknowledges that the War on Drugs, first declared by President Nixon, was a failed policy that followed a misguided history of criminalizing drug use and, as later admitted by Nixon aide John Ehrlichman, specifically sought to disrupt, incarcerate and antagonize his political opponents and black communities. The resolution apologizes on behalf of the House of Representatives, and also finds that: · The War on Drugs created conditions that exacerbated the impact of the opioid epidemic; · The War on Drugs led to the racially-charged mass incarceration of millions with outsized impact in communities of color; · Further drug policy should see addiction as a health issue, not a criminal one; · All laws and policies associated with the War on Drugs should be reconsidered and replaced with evidence-based approaches to addressing addiction; · The House should put in place civil remedies and implement restorative justice for individuals incarcerated or otherwise punished by the Federal criminal justice system through the War on Drugs. In 1994, Ehrlichman admitted in an interview that the War on Drugs was a tool to arrest and manipulate Blacks and liberals stating, “We knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin, and then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities. We could arrest their leaders, raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did.” The lasting impact of the War on Drugs has been incarceration. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, in 2016 the US made over 1.5 million arrests for drug law violations with 84 percent of those for possession only. Though multiple studies point to the fact that White people use and sell drugs at a similar rate to Blacks and Latinos, people of color made up 57% of those incarcerated for a drug offense in state prisons — despite Black people making up just 12 and Latinos making up just 17 percent of the US population. The resolution has been endorsed by: · Amnesty International · The Drug Policy Alliance · The Justice Policy Institute · Justice Strategies · The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights · NAACP · The Sentencing Project To read the resolution in its entirety, click here.
04.24.2018	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) joined co-sponsors Congressmen Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) to announce the Handgun Licensing and Registration Act of 2018. This legislation would overturn an outdated 1986 law to build a framework of commonsense standards for handgun gun ownership in the United States by creating a federal licensing and registration process for gun ownership with minimum requirements that: The person seeking gun ownership is at least 21 years old; The person undergoes firearm training; The handgun owner has undergone a criminal history and background check (including submitting fingerprints and photographs) and; A license renewal process after five years of issuance. The bill would allow states to the opportunity to opt out of the federal system on the condition that they implement a state registration system that meets the same requirements. “The National Rifle Association has threatened, fundraised and strong-armed the debate around the second amendment for so long that commonsense measures — measures that would bring down rates of gun violence and even receive the support of law enforcement — have been deemed taboo. To that I say no more,” said Watson Coleman. “Our government requires registration and basic standards for voting, operating a vehicle, even opening a business. Yet, for weapons created with the single intent to take a life, we have developed a dangerous aversion to any mechanism to understand where and with whom these weapons reside. 96 Americans are killed every day by a gun. It’s time to give law enforcement the tools to prevent this violence and provide a record of accountability for those who seek to do others harm.” “The plague of gun violence in our communities is completely unacceptable,” said Pallone. “As Members of Congress, it is not enough to ask for a moment of silence. It is not enough to express our thoughts and prayers. We must now follow the lead of the thousands of young people who came out to demand change last week and enact common sense solutions to reduce gun violence. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act provides real solutions that will not only help prevent mass shootings like we saw in Parkland, but also curb the gun violence we see in our communities every day.” “For far too long, Congress has failed to enact commonsense measures in response to the gun violence epidemic plaguing our nation” said Sires. “In 2016 alone, 7,105 people lost their lives to handguns and this piece of legislation is an important step to ending this violence by creating a standard of responsible gun ownership. I am proud to cosponsor this update to our laws to ensure that law-abiding individuals who want to own handguns have passed a background check and know how to handle these dangerous weapons safely and responsibly.” “America has a gun problem and we cannot wait for the next tragedy strike before we work together to bring about common sense solutions and real reform,” said Espaillat. “According to Gifford’s Law Center, Americans own an estimated 270 million firearms, which accounts for nearly 90 guns per every 100 people. Yet, it is shocking to know that our country does not have a system in place to easily track and identify gun owners. There are a number of loopholes in our nation's broken gun system that allow troubled individuals to easily access guns and other firearms with minimal oversight. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act would address this problem and help us navigate the licensing and registration process in an effort to keep our communities safe and keep guns out of the wrong hands.” According to Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, Americans own an estimated 270 million firearms, which is approximately 90 guns for every 100 people, yet most states lack a system to easily identify a gun owner and many require little or no firearm safety training. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act of 2018 would set nationwide standards for gun ownership while finally providing a functional tool to prevent gun violence in all its forms. ###
03.22.2018	The House of Representatives has passed legislation introduced by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) that would improve security for soft targets in transportation, including rail and bus transit. H.R. 5131, The Surface Transportation and Public Area Security Act of 2018, would protect vital transportation modalities and the people who rely on them. share: f t The House of Representatives has passed legislation introduced by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) that would improve security for soft targets in transportation, including rail and bus transit. H.R. 5131, The Surface Transportation and Public Area Security Act of 2018, would protect vital transportation modalities and the people who rely on them. “Surface transportation systems are absolutely vital to the daily lives of millions of Americans. Given their critical importance, it is no surprise that terrorists have targeted these systems for attack,” said Watson Coleman. “This bill would address long-standing lapses while also counteracting the dangerous cuts to surface transportation programs proposed by the President in his 2018 and 2019 budgets.” H.R. 5131 would require the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to take meaningful steps to address the emerging threats to surface transportation systems, including: Requiring the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) take a more comprehensive approach to transportation threats in risk assessment, strategy setting and priority identification. Requiring TSA to consider the integration of new technology and security measures into mass transit and other surface transportation systems; Requiring DHS to assess threats posed by foreign technologies and develop and disseminate best practices for preventing vehicle-based attacks and; Requiring TSA to develop a strategy to guide surface transportation security inspector operations. To view the bill text, click here.
03.22.2018	Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement after voting against the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) omnibus spending bill: “Congress has passed the buck on immigration time and again, even as this administration has taken continuous, aggressive and harmful action against hundreds of thousands of immigrants, including Dreamers who’ve known no other country than this one. I made a commitment that I would not support a funding package until we addressed the glaring shortcomings in our immigration system and provided permanent protections for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. I’ve stayed true to that commitment today. “The final spending package included a number of investments that will directly benefit our communities and that I support wholeheartedly. But it also had enduring flaws, including the continued funding of military activities without any new authorization for use of military force — essentially funding war with no focus, direction, or end. Most importantly, with the passage of this omnibus Congress loses vital momentum and most of its incentive to provide a permanent solution for Dreamers and to fix the gaping holes in our immigration law. Acknowledging this serious dilemma, I could not support it.” ###
03.16.2018	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) sent letters to principals and other school administrators in New Jersey’s 12thCongressional District urging support and encouragement for students who engage in protests and demonstrations for gun violence prevention amid reports that some New Jersey schools had suspended or otherwise punished students for their participation. “Our schools should be institutions that encourage leadership, experiential learning, and civic engagement alongside and in conjunction with the curriculum taught in classrooms,” Rep. Watson Coleman wrote. “The students who have chosen to engage on this issue are taking part in the democratic process at its most basic level, exercising a fundamental American right to protest. Nurturing this behavior will teach them that their voices and opinions matter, will empower them to continue to participate in democratic processes and provide an important outlet for the emotions they feel related to this issue.” On Wednesday, March 14th students nationwide participated in National Walkout Day, leaving their classrooms to protest inaction on legislation and other initiatives to prevent gun violence with many protests also including 17 minutes of silence to honor the 17 victims of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting last month. Students from several schools and school districts in the 12th Congressional District took part in National Walkout Day, including: · Princeton Public Schools · Lawrence High School · West Windsor-Plainsboro High School South · Hopewell Valley Central High School · Hightstown High School · East Brunswick High School · Scotch Plains-Fanwood High School On Wednesday, Rep. Watson Coleman spoke in support of gun violence prevention on the House floor and joined Congressional colleagues in solidarity walk out on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol, meeting students from the capitol-area. To see the letter distributed to school principals and administrators, click here.
03.14.2018	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement on the House’s consideration of H.R. 4909, Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Act: “Addressing school violence is a top priority for me, however, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 lacks a number of critical protections in its effort to fund programs and systems that would prevent school violence events. “While I support reauthorization of the Department of Justice’s Secure Our Schools grant program, the bill considered in the House today had several critical flaws: it would not require protections for students falsely accused in grant-funded anonymous reporting systems; it risks creating risk assessment systems that disproportionately impact students with disabilities, students of color, and other minority groups; and may allow schools to purchase equipment like metal detectors that are unproven in preventing violent situations but do increase fear, anxiety and the perception of safety among students. “Legislation with this magnitude of concern deserves to be considered in regular order with the opportunity for amendments that would mitigate unintended consequences, and allow proactive attempts to reverse the school to prison pipeline. I truly believe that, if given the chance, Congress could have addressed these issues in a bipartisan fashion. Unfortunately we did not have that opportunity today. I look forward to supporting other measures that will more holistically and effectively address the pressing issues of school safety.” More than 50 civil and human rights organizations, including the Children’s Defense Fund, YWCA USA and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund joined in a letter noting these and other challenges within the bill. Click here to see their letter. ###
02.16.2018	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement in response to the announcement by the office of Special Counsel Robert Mueller of indictments of Russian businesses and nationals for a criminal conspiracy to interfere with the presidential election in 2016: “Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s indictments are the latest indication that the very fabric of our democracy was attacked and the American people collectively are victims of criminal acts. While our fundamental democratic principles have been under direct attack predating the 2016 elections, President Trump and Congressional Republicans have undermined, obscured, and ignored these crimes to the detriment of transparency and justice. This is not a partisan game. This is not fake news. These indictments outline the Russians heavily funded and coordinated efforts to put Donald Trump in the White House.” “The Special Counsel’s investigation is still ongoing and there is much to learned in order to re-secure our democracy. Every American should support Robert Mueller’s independence and ability to complete his investigation and prevent the President from interfering with that work.” ###
02.12.2018	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement following the letter sent by Ranking Member Elijah Cummings to the Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Sectary, Eric Hargan. The letter outlines documents regarding an effort by the Trump Administration to allow states to terminate Planned Parenthood as a healthcare provider for Medicaid recipients. “I served on the Select Investigative Panel to Attack Women’s Health that spent more than a year peddling conspiracy theories and outright lies by anti-abortion extremists to attack women’s health services. I am troubled, but sadly not surprised, that the Trump Administration would allow states to strip away access to healthcare for Americans based on false accusations that the Oversight and Government Reform Committee debunked on a bipartisan basis. The Trump Administration must immediately retract their letter to state Medicaid directors allowing them to use this false information as a basis for terminating Medicaid beneficiaries’ access to Planned Parenthood. When those in power use false information to expedite dangerous policies and bolster good press around events such as the March for Life rally -- innocent people are undoubtedly harmed. This attack on the American people’s healthcare, in particular women’s healthcare, must stop. I commend the brave whistleblower for shedding light on this extremely troubling report.” Background: In her first term, Rep. Watson Coleman was selected to serve on the Select Investigative Panel, which was established by Republicans in response to the release of doctored videos by fringe anti-abortion activists, deceptively edited to make it appear as if Planned Parenthood facilities were selling fetal tissue. After wasting millions of taxpayer dollars, harassing doctors and scientists, and propagating misleading information about biomedical research, the panel found no illegal activity by Planned Parenthood. The panel was disbanded after 15 months before the start of the 115th Congress. ###
02.08.2018	Ewing, NJ –Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) and Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) asked that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) use its discretion and release Mr. Gunawan Liem of Piscataway, Mr. Roby Sanger of Metuchen and Parlin Sinaga of Woodbridge from ICE custody while their immigration cases are pending. The letter comes after U.S. District Judge Esther Salas ordered a temporary restraining order stopping Immigration and Customs Enforcement from deporting several Indonesian Christians immigrants while she reviewed their request for a second chance at asylum. “They have raised their families here for decades, becoming important, law-abiding members of their communities who pose no flight risk before or after the conclusion of their court hearings,” wrote Pallone and Watson Coleman. “Releasing Mr. Liem, Mr. Sanger and Mr. Sinaga would allow them to be with their families and friends during this difficult process. It would also allow ICE the opportunity to better appropriate its resources in detaining individuals that pose a real threat to our communities.”
01.30.2018	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement in response to Trump’s first State of the Union address: “Last year, following the joint session of Congress, I said that Donald Trump is treating the presidency like a reality television show when the livelihood of the American public is at stake – a year later – I feel no different. The American people want real action that will put them back to work, not hollow promises and vague soundbites. Donald Trump had the audacity to come before Congress, our guests and the American people at large and gloss over his dismal record. Launching a presidency with: a Muslim Ban, stripping protections for DACA recipients, failure to implement Russia sanctions, attacking the DOJ and FBI, working in vain to repeal the Affordable Care Act and strip healthcare from 30 million Americans and ramming through a tax scam to raise taxes on families across New Jersey. Donald Trump spent two years on the campaign trail and a year as President making clear his dangerous agenda for America, and his first State of the Union was more of the same.” “We were not fooled by his disingenuous calls to unify the nation when he has spent his entire presidency castigating and scapegoating immigrants, and stoking fear of violent immigrants terrorizing our communities. Immigrants are the backbone of our nation and instead of getting behind comprehensive immigration reform that includes a path to citizenship for our DREAMERs, he doubled down on his isolationist, anti-immigrant ideology.” “Donald Trump erroneously claims credit for President Obama’s extraordinary economic recovery—even the auto bailout from 2009—but has nothing else to tout after a dismal first year in office. His so-called “infrastructure plan” would severely underfund our roads, bridges and waterways, strap state and local governments with debt, and take a hatchet to longstanding federal environmental and safety protections. His tax plan raises taxes on New Jersey families, handsomely rewards millionaires and billionaires on Wall Street, while providing little to no benefit on hiring or wages for working Americans. Despite his claims, companies are taking their tax breaks with one hand, and laying off workers with the other.” “Donald Trump spoke of his goals of unifying the nation. The first thing he should do is apologize for his racism, xenophobia, and sexism. He should apologize for insulting our allies and partners across the globe. He should apologize for embarrassing our nation and diminishing America’s stature on the world stage.” ###
01.26.2018	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman announced today that she will bring Rose Gunter, niece of Recy Taylor, as her guest to the State of the Union address. Ms. Gunter was Taylor’s caregiver until she passed away last year at the age of 97. “I am honored that Rose will be joining me for the State of the Union as many members of the Democratic Caucus will be paying tribute to her aunt. Ms. Taylor’s story represents that of many marginalized women who have spoken up, spoken out and have long been ignored. The transformative movement that’s happening in this country around sexual misconduct must include amplifying the voices of victims that we, in some cases, chose not to hear. Beyond her terrifying experience, Ms. Taylor, herself, is a representation of the many communities this Administration has chosen to leave behind.” Watson Coleman is leading members of the Congressional Black Caucus and members of the Democratic Caucus in wearing red pins in memoriam of Recy Taylor. Taylor was abducted and raped while walking home from work in Alabama in 1944. Taylor reported her attack, but her assailants were never brought to justice. In 2011, the Alabama Legislature apologized to Taylor, calling the failure to prosecute her attackers “morally abhorrent and repugnant.” Taylor’s story rose to national news following Oprah Winfrey’s Golden Globes speech while accepting the Cecil B. DeMille Award. This effort is in conjunction with members wearing black to the State of the Union address in solidarity with those seeking economic security and a cultural shift that enables men and women to work side by side in safety and dignity, free of sexual harassment, and paid fairly for the value of their work. ### Watson Coleman is the first black women elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from the State of New Jersey. In 2016, Watson Coleman co-founded the first ever Congressional Caucus on Black Women & Girls - the first caucus devoted to public policy that eliminates the significant barriers and disparities experienced by Black women.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement in response to the deal made to end the Trump Shutdown: “I voted no on the continuing resolution because it does nothing to address the priorities that are so critical to New Jerseyans and the American people. The deal agreed to by the Senate does not guarantee funding for essential community health centers, resources to combat the opioid crisis, nor does it protect Dreamers. Quite frankly, I am skeptical of the ability of Republicans to reach any long-term agreement considering the leader of their party, Donald Trump, was left out of these negotiations. Throughout this process, this President has failed to provide adequate leadership and a clear understanding of what he wants and what he is willing to sign into law. Congressional Republicans must abandon their efforts to govern on their own. In the next three weeks, we must work together to fully fund vital government programs, provide adequate relief to our natural disaster victims and community health centers, and protect the 800,000 Dreamers from deportation. I have little faith in any deal offered by a Republican Congress and Republican President that have continuously fallen short on their promises to the American people.” ###
01.18.2018	U.S. Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Robin Kelly (IL-02), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05) released these statements regarding Kenneth Chenault’s appointment to Facebook’s Board of Directors: “Kenneth Chenault’s business acumen and record of success is clear, and I am pleased he will bring that experience to Facebook. Mr. Chenault appointment demonstrates that companies like Facebook do not need to sacrifice diversity for quality at their highest and most consequential leadership ranks. As this industry takes additional steps to diversify their leadership, I strongly encourage them to look outside the box for dynamic talent and emerging leaders, not simply safe picks that have already ascended to the highest echelons of business success. Nonetheless, I do look forward to working with Mr. Chenault and the entire leadership at Facebook to address the concerns that Representatives Kelly, Cleaver and I laid out in our letter last year. We must ensure that our social media and tech leaders are operating responsibly on behalf of their users and the communities that we represent,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ). “I’m pleased to see Facebook taking real action to address the issue of diversity within their company. America’s diversity is her strength and our strongest industries should reflect that fact. Kenneth Chenault is a proven leader with tremendous knowledge and experience. When we began this dialogue with Facebook, we expected swift action and this decision is without a doubt a step in the right direction,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL). “Much work still remains to diversify Silicon Valley. Progress has been slow and we will continue to press companies to enact inclusive hiring policies. I remain committed to working with tech leadership to attain this goal.” “There are a significant number of qualified minorities who are more than capable to be among the leadership of companies such as Facebook…a social medium that is used by all races, colors, and creeds. I am pleased to hear that Facebook has not only acknowledged the lack of diversity within its company but they listened to our concerns and chose a new direction for the future,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO). Background: In September, Representatives Kelly, Cleaver and Watson Coleman sent multiple letters to Facebook’s CEO concerning discrimination on the platform, especially its advertising services. Following these letters, Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, met with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) on several issues and promised the appointment of an African American to Facebook’s Board of Director. Since, Representatives Kelly, Cleaver and Watson Coleman have been in regular and productive communication with Facebook as the company works to address an array of concerns raised by these Members and others in the CBC.
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the followings statement in response to reports that Donald Trump attacked immigration from “shithole countries” like Haiti, El Salvador and African countries: “Donald Trump continues to make clear what many of us knew to be true in throughout the 2016 presidential election cycle: he is a racist whose bigotry and ignorance guide his decision-making. For far too long, his allies and validators have excused his shameful behavior and discriminatory policies, refusing to hold him to the standard of the Office of the President. “This nation is made great, due in no small part, to the contributions of immigrants of all races, nationalities and religions. The very fiber of America is strengthened when we uplift and include everyone seeking to achieve the American dream. “With an agenda that prioritizes protecting our Dreamers, comprehensive immigration reform and continuing efforts to increase national security – it is a disgrace that the leader of this nation has reassured the nation and global community of his woeful incompetence.” Last year, Rep. Watson Coleman alongside, Reps. Jerrold Nadler and Pramila Jayapal introduced a censure resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives against President Donald Trump for his comments blaming “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia and excusing the behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally. ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, following the temporary nationwide injunction blocking the Trump Administration’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Committee, met with New Jersey DACA recipients and released the following statement: “Dreamers are an essential thread in the fabric of our nation. These young people make invaluable contributions to communities in New Jersey and across the nation as doctors, teachers, small business owners and serve heroically in our military. Dreamers are Americans. “As I reiterated to the young men and women I spoke with today, this recent court decision is not a real solution; the only real relief they will get will be from legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President. In both chambers of Congress, there is clear support for the DREAM Act – it must be brought up for a vote and with the progress that DACA initiated, we must work toward comprehensive immigration reform that ensures the American dream continues to be attainable for all. “We have called on Dreamers to come out of the shadows and become engaged participants in our communities and country – the law of the land must reflect that directive.” Watson Coleman was joined by Rep. Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Committee who, yesterday, joined a bipartisan group of legislators at the White House to negotiate a deal on “Dreamers” and to try and avert a government shutdown ahead of the January 19th deadline. According to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, New Jersey had 22,024 DACA recipients through March 31, 2017. If repealed, the Garden State would lose approximately $1.6 billion every year in its Gross Domestic Product, making it the fifth-largest dollar loss of all states in the country, according to New Jersey Policy Perspective. Photos from the meeting can be found here. ###
01.08.2018	EWING, NJ – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement following reports that at least two New Jersey state prisons have banned inmates from reading Michelle Alexander’s The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Aged of Colorblindness: “As long as I have been a lawmaker, I have fought for the “right to life” for the incarcerated. To learn that the New Jersey Department of Corrections has sought to censor a piece of literature that not only exposes the dire need for reform of our prison system, but that also educates the masses is misguided and dangerous. However, sadly, this practice isn’t uncommon. For far too long, our prison systems have focused on punitive treatment and set aside their duty to rehabilitate. By banning Michelle Alexander’s book and other similar work, we are infringing on the First Amendment rights of the incarcerated. It is clear; this is about the system and the individual. Our work as elected officials to reform the criminal justice system and rehabilitate the incarcerated centers around having access to the musings, research, and findings of published thought leaders. It is an essential piece of decision-making for legislators as well as those who are seeking knowledge and the courage to break the cycle of recidivism. In the coming days, I look forward to working with Governor-elect Murphy, ACLU-NJ and our allies to work within the constitutional parameters to ensure we are supporting the rehabilitative needs of the incarcerated and not shutting them out and limiting their chance at success.” Watson Coleman has led the call for reforms to prisoner re-entry programs, fighting tirelessly to shut the revolving door of recidivism for individuals who have returned from incarceration. She is the author of the End-for-Profit Prisons Act that would prohibit the Bureau of Prisons from contracting with for-profit prison companies and would codify the Obama-era directive to end the federal procurement of for-profit prisons. During her time as Assembly Majority Leader in the New Jersey State Legislature, Watson Coleman convened a year-long series of public hearings on the topic while shepherding legislation through the New Jersey Assembly that The New York Times called “a model for the rest of the nation,” on prisoner rehabilitation and release. ###
12.19.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement following the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs rejecting the nomination of Scott Garrett to lead the Export Import Bank in a 10 to 13 vote: “In rejecting the nomination of Scott Garrett to lead the Export-Import Bank of the United States, Senators - both Democrats & Republicans, alike – affirm how damaging his leadership would be to this vital agency. Throughout his tenure in Congress, Mr. Garrett led the charge to oppose ExIm, so, it defies logic that he would ever be considered to lead the Bank with the opportunity to sabotage it from within. The Export-Import Bank supports American exporters, small businesses, and jobs at absolutely no cost to taxpayers. Since 2012, the bank has facilitated $3 billion in New Jersey exports from 164 companies; 130 of these companies were small businesses. With the confirmation of the four other individuals, the Bank will be able to resume business fueling our economy and putting Americans to work.” In April, Watson Coleman led all Democratic members of the New Jersey Congressional delegation in a letter to Senate leadership urging both parties to oppose the nomination following the President’s announcement. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers opposed Garrett’s confirmation. Congress reauthorized the bank in December 2015 for four years. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement in response to the passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in U.S. House of Representatives: “I am extremely disappointed that the House has chosen to push through this enormous tax cut for corporations and the rich at the expense of increasing taxes on middle class New Jersey families. Instead of working with Democrats to reform our tax code, Republicans chose to rush through a partisan giveaway to the rich and powerful that adds $1.7 trillion to the deficit, triggers $25 billion in cuts to Medicare, and increases the number of uninsured by 13 million. Republicans have made clear they plan to use these deficits to create a manufactured crisis where they have an excuse to cut vital social programs that seniors and low-income Americans rely on in the coming weeks – including Medicare. Additionally, this bill is a brazen attack on New Jersey. By limiting the state and local tax deduction, it subjects New Jerseyans to double taxation, devastates property values, and puts state and local budgets at risk, and the communities I represent would be among the hardest hit in the entire nation. Despite Republicans’ claims of trickle down benefits which have not worked since their introduction during the Reagan Administration, it is clear this legislation would be harmful to the vast majority of New Jersey residents. Republicans are so shameless in this tax scam that their meager benefits for individuals are set to expire, while their most generous tax breaks for businesses are permanent, leaving my constituents and future generations holding the bag for years to come on this heartless scheme. The American people have made clear they see this GOP tax scam for what it is: a massive tax cut for the President and his rich friends and donors. Americans must remember who stood with them to oppose this legislation and those who voted for the one percent.” ###
12.18.2017	Today, the Democratic members of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Task Force on Denying Terrorists Entry to the United States released the below joint statement on their inability to sign-on to the Task Force’s final report. The Democratic membership of the Task Force, led by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), includes Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA). “We as Democratic Members of the Task Force remain steadfast in our commitment to advancing policies to prevent terrorism by keeping dangerous individuals from traveling to this country. In the past we have supported bipartisan legislation aiming to do just that and we will continue to do so. Unfortunately, policy differences in some areas proved too great to overcome, and we are unable to sign onto the Task Force report.” “We cannot support efforts to further President Trump's misguided extreme vetting or his un-American Muslim ban. We cannot endorse a broad, arbitrary, and potentially counterproductive expansion of social media vetting. We also do not support policy changes that are not the result of Task Force activities or findings. Instead, we should aim to reinforce proven initiatives that strengthen our security without undermining our values or constitutionally protected rights.” “It is imperative that we build on the progress that has been made since 9/11 by securing our country from terrorism in a way that also protects our freedoms. Keeping Americans safe and secure is our paramount concern and we remain committed to enhancing security while upholding the values that truly make America great.” # # #
12.12.2017	Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, sent a letter to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) regarding two surface transportation security mandates that have not been implemented and are long overdue. Yesterday’s attack in New York City underscores the urgent need for TSA to move forward with these critical mandates with renewed urgency. # # #
12.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswomen Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), released the following statement following reports of a pipe bomb explosion in the passageway connecting the Times Square and Port Authority subway: “This morning’s attempted terror attack at the Port Authority bus terminal is just another example of the dire need for immediate and comprehensive investment in security across all modes of transportation. Transit centers - like the Port Authority Bus Terminal – are a vital part of their livelihood for millions of American commuters, train and station operators, and local businesses. Prioritizing their safety and security is paramount; government must work collaboratively across all levels to ensure our agencies have the resources and tools necessary to mitigate attack and prevent tragedy.” Last month, Watson Coleman introduced the Surface Transportation and Public Area Security Act of 2017. If enacted, the legislation would restore, revamp, and resource important programs aimed at securing critical soft targets, such as railroads, buses and the public areas of airports. The bill would also greatly enhance federal partnership with state and local stakeholders to protect these vital transit systems and the people who use them. Watson Coleman announced plans to introduce the legislation at a field hearing in New Jersey’s 12th Congressional District held by the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security of the Committee on Homeland Security. A fact sheet on the bill can be found here.
11.27.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security, announced the Surface Transportation and Public Area Security Act of 2017. If enacted, the legislation would restore, revamp, and resource important programs aimed at securing critical soft targets, such as railroads, buses and the public areas of airports. The bill would also greatly enhance federal partnership with state and local stakeholders to protect these vital transit systems and the people who use them. Watson Coleman announced plans to introduce the legislation at a field hearing in New Jersey’s 12th Congressional District held by the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security of the Committee on Homeland Security. “It has become increasingly clear that the Federal Government has fallen behind in ensuring that our mass transit systems are secure and safe. Knowing that, I am appalled by the Trump Administration's proposal to cut the few existing transit security programs,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “The Surface Transportation and Public Area Security Act of 2017 will finally give transit agencies the resources and tools they need to enhance security and commuters nationwide the assurances of safety they deserve. It is imperative that, as federal legislators, we learn from the deadly attacks we’ve seen worldwide and take all the necessary steps to prevent such tragedy on American soil.” In August, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) dedicated an edition of its online-only English-language propaganda magazine to teaching followers how to derail trains in Europe and the U.S. In September, the Republican-controlled House Rules Committee rejected an amendment to the omnibus appropriations bill that would have restored $43 million in funding for TSA’s Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) teams - one of the few federal programs that supports rail security. These teams are deployed to provide security at various transportation facilities, including rail and bus stations. The Trump Administration has also proposed cutting the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP), which transit agencies rely on to fund key security measures, from $88 million to only $48 million. Watson Coleman’s legislation would authorize $400 million for the TSGP, direct TSA to maintain 60 VIPR teams, and restore funding for the Law Enforcement Officer Reimbursement Program. The bill would make law enforcement reimbursement available for surface transportation; increase the deployment of explosive detection canines to surface transportation; require a review of whether it is appropriate for people to be able to carry guns into public transportation areas; and direct the dissemination of best practices for securing against vehicle-based attacks, such as the recent attack in New York. ### A copy of the bill can be found here, as well as a fact sheet here.
11.21.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision on ending the Temporary Protected Status of 60,000 Haitians: “The failure to renew the Temporary Protected Status of some 60,000 human lives is a further continuation of the downward spiral of indecent leadership from this Administration. Congress created the TPS program to ensure we uphold our values by not deporting individuals to places that are unsafe due to instability or natural disasters. The 2010 earthquake that struck Haiti continues to leave the island unrecognizable and destabilized the country’s economy, making adequate housing, healthcare and employment unattainable for millions of Haitians, while recent hurricanes have only worsened conditions in the country. Sending these individuals back at this time is inhumane both to them and their 27,000 U.S.-born children. America is the nation that the world looks to in the darkest of hours. We are one of the greatest superpowers the world has ever known. Yet that reputation and world renowned leadership becomes more tarnished with each despicable act of human indecency this Administration pursues. America is better than this, but clearly this Administration is not.” ###
11.20.2017	Members wrote a letter to the largest trade group of internet companies seeking concrete commitments to combat on-line bias Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) wrote a letter to the President and CEO of the Internet Association, Michael Beckerman, urging the organization to stop the spread of racial and gender bias through technology and adopt practices and policies to hold members accountable when it comes to the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. The letter is here. “As AI technology continues to expand and touch all areas of our lives, from social media, medicine, traffic management, airport security, retail inventory, to online lending, and education, it is imperative that policy makers carefully attempt to balance policies and regulations that mitigate social and ethical risks while providing an environment that allows for and supports innovation in industries such as yours,” the letter states. Cleaver and Watson Coleman are asking that the Internet Association respond to the following questions: • Is there a process in your association to review, test, share, and manage member datasets, algorithms or products to ensure that there is not a gender, racial, or religious bias? • Has the Internet Association implemented any best practices to limit the proliferation of discriminatory biases and/or radical ideology? • Is there a process and/or platform that can educate the public and Internet Association members on how to spot, identify and notify the group of racial or gender bias content? “We are continuing to demand answers because this issue affects so much of our daily encounters. We are constantly seeing information on our phones, tablets, and computers. We want to make sure the technology we use is working to solve, rather than magnify, our most difficult social challenges.” said Congressman Cleaver. "With an ever-evolving and advancing digital landscape - users reap great benefit from the ease and speed in which we are able to reach across the globe with the click of a mouse or the touch of a button. But we must take seriously the fact that individuals and organizations with harmful intent have that same access," said Watson Coleman. "The Internet Association and its member organizations must seek to proactively ensure that they can readily identify those bad actors and the threat they can pose, both directly and indirectly, to the livelihood of the men and women who use their platforms. As Vice Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Committee, I have seen the harms that cyber threats pose to our security, and despite the nuanced challenges posed by online threats, we must be vigilant in our efforts to protect our homeland - digital and physical." Watson Coleman continued. Last month, Congressman Cleaver and Congresswoman Watson Coleman sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, encouraging him to take immediate action to combat the spread of racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities’ use of the site to undermine American democracy. Weeks later, the lawmakers were among members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with, Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg, to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the company’s system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging.
11.16.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 1 — Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today, Congressional Republicans dropped deficit and devastation on the doorsteps of millions of Americans. H.R. 1 makes an irresponsible bet on trickle-down economics by providing billions of dollars in tax cuts to the nation’s wealthiest and multinational corporations and reaching deep into the pockets of the middle class to pay up. Hardworking middle class New Jersey taxpayers will see limits on the state and local tax deduction and will no longer be able to deduct medical expenses. On the House floor I watched my colleagues vote yes to tax hikes for 36 million middle class families, 25 billion dollars of Medicare cuts next year alone, and the addition of$1.5 trillion in debt for our children to pay. In particular, by limiting the ability of New Jersey families to deduct state and local taxes, this bill is a direct attack on our state that already pays a disproportionate amount of federal taxes. I refuse to support legislation that will so blatantly damage New Jerseyans, working families, small businesses, our nations’ veterans, the sick and a host of other constituencies that elected us to work in their best interests. Donald Trump, propped up by my Republican colleagues, has delivered an early Christmas gift to his wealthy family members, friends and big corporations. By voting no on this bill, I continue to stand with the best interests of New Jerseyans, teachers, veterans, small businesses, the sick and those who are simply trying to make ends meet.” ###
11.15.2017	As House Debate Begins, Watson Coleman Condemns Congressional Republicans for Disastrous Tax Legislation “This ill-considered scheme would further dismantle America’s ladder of opportunity” Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement ahead of the House of Representatives floor debate on H.R. 1 – Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the announcement from Senate Republicans of a provision in their version to repeal the individual mandate, spiking Americans’ health insurance premiums and causing 13 million Americans to go uninsured: “Today, the House of Representatives will begin formal debate on their tax scam legislation - after denying Democrats the opportunity to offer amendments – all while experts, advocates and organizations nationwide continue to release damaging analyses of the harmful effects of this legislation. But the American people, particularly the people I represent in New Jersey, have made it clear that they don’t want this ill-considered scheme rammed through that will further dismantle the ladder of opportunity that allows Americans to grow and thrive. Eliminating the medical expenses deduction would devastate households nationwide struggling to recover from high health-care costs. Removing the student loan interest deduction would cost recent graduates hundreds of dollars a year - significant to young Americans trying to get on their feet. My constituents didn’t send me to Washington to raise their taxes just so Donald Trump and his family can pay less taxes, our children and grandchildren can be saddled with crippling debt, and Republicans in Congress can chalk up a hyper-partisan notch at the expense of working Americans. And if raising taxes on hard-working Americans wasn’t horrible enough, apparently, adding $1.5 trillion to the deficit was not a deal-breaker. If you needed any more proof of the moral bankruptcy of Republicans in Congress – look no further than the poison pill Republican Senators slid in their version of the tax bill to eliminate the ACA individual mandate. It is inexplicable to me that Republicans would add such a heartless provision unless their true goal is to sabotage their own bill. I may be one voice and one vote in Congress, but I have a responsibility to fight the onslaught of injustices pursued by Donald Trump and his Republican pals in Congress. ###
10.31.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, alongside all Democratic House members of the New Jersey congressional delegation, released the below statement doubling down on their urging of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee to vehemently oppose the confirmation of former New Jersey Representative Scott Garrett to lead the Export-Import bank: “There is no room for Scott Garrett at the table when considering leadership for the Export-Import Bank of the United States. By willingly ignoring its successes and publicly lambasting the agency, coupled with a voting record that sought to eliminate the agency - Scott Garrett has demonstrated that he cannot be trusted to run this critical agency to create jobs and encourage continued economic growth. His record cannot and should not be ignored. As a vocal and unwavering opponent of the agency, Garrett represents the antithesis of EXIM and his nomination should be rejected in Committee and by the full Senate.” In April, the seven Democrats - led by Watson Coleman - sent a letter to Senate leadership urging both parties to oppose the nomination following the President’s announcement. The same letter was resent today to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee who will conduct a hearing, tomorrow, on Garrett’s nomination. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers oppose Garrett’s confirmation. Congress reauthorized the bank in December 2015 for four years. If the Senate confirms him as president of the bank, Garrett would also be CEO and a board member. ###
10.30.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement today on federal indictments against former Trump campaign employees and associates: “The indictment of Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and senior aide Rick Gates, along with reports of a guilty plea by Trump campaign foreign policy advisor George Papadopolous are the latest in troubling revelations surrounding this President. The Special Counsel’s investigation is critical to uncovering the full extent of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia and its interference in our democracy. I am also concerned by attempts by Trump allies to undermine and discredit Special Counsel Mueller and his investigation, as we have already witnessed attempts by President Trump to interfere in this investigation. Congress has a duty and responsibility to protect the integrity and independence of this process—our democracy depends on it.” ###
10.27.2017	Today, Reps. Bonnie Watson Coleman and Emanuel Cleaver, II released the following statement in response to a letter addressed to the lawmakers from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and the company’s decision to ban Russia Today and Sputnik from buying ads on the network as well as the Facebook announcement of the site’s new advertising transparency features: “We are encouraged that our advocacy and concern have led Twitter and Facebook to take greater responsibility for the content on their platform. While the evidence of hostile actors like Russia exploiting social media platforms to destabilize our communities has been overwhelming, the response by social media leaders up to this point has not followed suit. This attention and action by executives at Twitter and Facebook is a small step in the right direction, to reassure the public that they have grasped the severity of this issue and are taking steps, incrementally, to counter any future risks. However, more work still needs to be done by social media platforms to combat on-line violent racial incitement and to seriously improve their hiring practices when it comes to racial diversity.” Earlier this month, Watson Coleman sent a letter to Dorsey encouraging the CEO to take immediate action to combat manipulation of the platform spread racially divisive communications and take seriously the threat of foreign entities use of the site to undermine American democracy. Weeks later, the lawmakers, were among members of the Congressional Black Caucus to meet with, Facebook COO, Sheryl Sandberg to discuss allegations that Russian-backed agencies exploited the companies system to influence the outcome of the 2016 election through the spread of racial and discriminatory messaging. ###
10.12.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement after President Trump issued an executive order designed to undo progress of the Affordable Care Act, putting the lives of millions of Americans at stake: “With this Executive Order President Trump has made good on his promise to sabotage the Affordable Care Act and threaten the well-being of millions of Americans. Directing his Administration to scale back health coverage protections, allowing the sale of bare-bones policies and broadening race-to-the bottom association health plans threatens access to affordable and comprehensive coverage for all Americans. Simply, this is a bald-faced attempt to destabilize and unravel the ACA exchanges from the inside. But, it should be noted, the President hasn’t acted alone. Congressional Republicans refusal to work with Democrats in good faith to find bipartisan solutions to improve the Affordable Care Act, and their hyper-partisan attempts to strip care for 30 million Americans makes them complicit. Their misguided political ambition and a refusal to protect the constituents that sent them to Washington has re-opened problems that were solved with the enactment of the ACA – specifically–allowing discrimination based on health status, the sale of bare-bones coverage and leaving behind those most in need. This is a matter of life and death and it is a disgrace that this Administration sees fit to strip away health care while they continually blow through tax payer dollars on Trump’s vacations and Cabinet members’ private jets.” ###
10.11.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) announced passage of her bill in the House to name a Princeton post office after scholar and pioneer, Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Nash, a graduate of Princeton University. He is the only person to be awarded both the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences and the Abel Prize. “Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. serves as a national example of fearlessness in wrestling down problems so difficult few others dared to try,” said Watson Coleman. “When residents come to the Post Office in Princeton, I hope they are inspired by his legacy, the originality of his thinking and his remarkable achievements that empowered generations of mathematicians, scientists and economists.” During her first term, Watson Coleman hosted a post office naming competition. Dr. Nash, Jr. was submitted by elementary school student Lyla Malloy and chosen out of 84 submissions. The Watson Coleman bill, H.R. 2302, would rename the US Post Office located at 259 Nassau Street, Suite 2 in Princeton, NJ as the “Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Post Office. Every member of the New Jersey congressional delegation has cosponsored this bill. ###
10.11.2017	Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security, sent a letter to the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to get answers on Vice President Pence’s use of Secret Service resources in a political stunt over the weekend to garner media attention by walking out of a football game. The members demand the cost and staffing for the trip given the already high demands placed on the Service. “Vice President Pence’s actions clearly represent an elaborate, prearranged ploy to garner media attention. The costs associated with the Vice President traveling to Indianapolis and attending a large, public event are immense, and we are deeply concerned that the Trump Administration finds it appropriate to expend taxpayer resources to play political games.” ###
10.10.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement following the Environmental Protection Agency announcement that Administrator Scott Pruitt signed a measure to repeal the Clean Power Plan: “By repealing the Clean Power Plan this Administration continues to drive in reverse - mowing down all progress that would ensure future generations have clean water, clean air and a clean energy economy. Right now Americans in Texas, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and California are grappling with the effects of extreme weather grinding local economies to halt and causing mass human devastation. Over the past 10 years, extreme weather has cost the U.S. economy at least $240 billion - a number surely to rise if we do not take measures to cut pollution. Further, our national security continues to be compromised by climate change, sea level rise, and changing weather patterns across the globe. The facts are clear. Climate change is a global crisis that requires not only international cooperation, but also, the United States’ leadership as the world’s second largest contributor. Scott Pruitt and Donald Trump are so hell-bent on dismantling the progress of President Obama not realizing that clean energy expands our economy and creates good-paying jobs - promises they have yet to make good on.” ###
10.06.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the below statement following the Trump Administration’s announcement of a rule allowing employers and insurers to stop following an Affordable Care Act mandate to offer health insurance that covers birth control without a co-pay: “Today, following the release of a dismal jobs report that validated the corrosive impact of this President and Republican-controlled Congress on the U.S. economy, Donald Trump found it opportune to further his assault on women nationwide. Contrary to the narrow-minded talking points of my Republican colleagues, birth control is health care. Contraceptives have benefits beyond pregnancy prevention – treating thousands of women for medical conditions like endometriosis. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive coverage mandate more than 55 million women have access to birth control without cost. We cannot rollback this progress. I can’t think of any reason outside of mean-spiritedness, partisanship and anti-women animus that we’d roll back this essential access to care. This Administration and Republican-controlled Congress has yet to create jobs, invest in infrastructure or make good on any of the promises they made to the American people. Sadly, they have failed in their numerous attempts to strip healthcare from everyone so they’ll settle for just taking health decisions away from women.” ###
10.04.2017	Yesterday, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO) sent a letter to Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey expressing their concerns with the social networking platform’s role in ‘propagating hate and undermining democracy’ and company leadership’s inaction to address the gravity of these issues. The lawmakers called on the CEO to clearly outline how they will, in the future, combat the manipulation of the platform by domestic and foreign entities, citing a failure to do so will force increased oversight and regulation of the industry. Full text of the letter can be found online. Additional excerpts are below: Fanning the flames of racism & undermining Democracy “While we acknowledge that Twitter can be a powerful tool to bring about positive information sharing, we are exceptionally concerned that Twitter is also being used as an avenue to spread racism and bigotry. As a result of the far-reaching nature of Twitter’s technology, we have seen an effort to undermine our democracy, create or fan flames of racial divisions, and spread hate speech that can ultimately cumulate into violence.” Federal Oversight of the Industry “..we are concerned that insufficient government oversight over your firm is inadvertently leading to deeper racial divisions and threats to our democracy. If Twitter continues to prove unable or hesitant to grasp the seriousness of this threat and combat the racialized climate that is being stimulated on your platforms, we, as Members of Congress, will be left with little option but to demand for increased regulations and government oversight of this industry to address these problems.” ### Kirsten Allen | Communications Director | Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman | Twelfth Distric
10.04.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) announced her plan to reintroduce the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act, legislation that would place limits and safeguards on the online market for ammunition. “Day in and day out men and women lose their lives at the hands of gun violence and the only response from the Republican-controlled Congress, and now our Republican President, has been moments of silence and continued inaction. Gun safety policies shouldn’t have to wait for tragedies like Las Vegas, Orlando and Charleston to be considered; we also owe it to mothers, fathers and siblings burying family members every day in Trenton, Plainfield and other cities across America,” said Watson Coleman. “Several of my colleagues and I have introduced commonsense legislation that, if enacted, would reduce gun violence and the tragic impact it has on our communities. The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act is one step in the right direction to slowing the proliferation of guns and ammunition. Americans did not send us to Washington to mourn them when it is our job to do everything we can as federal legislators to protect them.” On October 1, 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, opened fire on an outdoor country music concert festival where over 22,000 people were gathered, killing at least 59 people and injuring over 500. Police found 23 firearms in Paddock’s hotel room; weapons found were both .308 and .223 caliber. A search of his home turned up several thousand rounds of ammunition. The US makes up about 4.4 percent of the global population but possesses 42 percent of the world’s civilian-owned guns. The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act would require federally licensed ammunition dealers to confirm the identity of individuals who arrange to purchase ammunition over the internet by verifying a photo I.D. in-person. The bill would also require ammunition vendors to report any sales of more than 1,000 rounds within five consecutive days to the U.S. Attorney General, if the person purchasing ammunition is not a licensed dealer. Since, January 2015, the start of Rep. Watson Coleman’s tenure in the House of Representatives, there have been 20 mass shooting incidents and in the 114th and 115th Congress combined, the House has taken one formal action on firearm legislation – to roll back a rule that required the Social Security Administration to report people who receive disability benefits and have a mental health condition to the FBI’s background check system. The database is used to determine eligibility for buying a firearm. ###
10.02.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the below statement following what is being described as the ‘deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history” near the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas: “This morning, our nation awoke with grief and despair after learning of the largest mass shooting in our modern history. We will forever hold in our hearts the men and women who tragically and unjustly lost their lives and pray for healing for the wounded, missing and their loved ones. There are no words for this intentional act of evil and as the investigation continues to unfold I must express my desperation for Congress to take on gun safety reform. Dotted across our map are harrowing accounts of gun violence that have devastated communities – tragedies that claim more and more lives of the innocent with every breaking news report. There is nothing left to debate. The line has to be drawn – school children were not enough, Members of Congress were not enough, churchgoers at Bible Study were not enough, adults going out to a nightclub was not enough – what will it take?” ###
09.29.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price: “Beginning with his nomination, Secretary Tom Price was unfit and unqualified to serve as the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Accusations of insider trading and his insistence on stripping healthcare from 30 million Americans should have been disqualifying enough. However, the latest controversy over his more than $1 million of wasteful and abusive travel expenses in just 8 months was the final straw. It should be unacceptable in and of itself when public officials violate public trust – as Sec. Price has done on several occasions - but that does not appear to be the concern of this President, who himself disregards the public trust in an increasingly brazen fashion. Given these facts, it can be deduced that Sec. Price lost his job because he embarrassed the President, not because he committed malpractice. This problem is a result of the unchecked abuses of a President who has set a tone of defiance and disregard for transparency. If President Trump thumbs his nose at conflicts of interest and rule of law, it is no surprise his appointees feel the same. His resignation should not excuse Sec. Price from reimbursing American taxpayers and I’m glad that Democrats on the House Oversight Committee are pursuing answers on these issues within the entire Administration.” ###
09.28.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement on the delayed relief efforts to Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands following Hurricane Maria: “A week ago, our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, were devastated by the damage caused by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Disabled trade and the lack of essential food supplies has created the conditions for starvation, disease and potential civil unrest for the more than 100,000 residents of the U.S.Virgin Islands and currently, nearly half of Puerto Rico’s 3.5 million residents are without clean drinking water. We know that the road to recovery is extremely difficult - although there are 15 recognized ports on Puerto Rico, only three are suitable for the delivery of relief supplies. Of those three, only one in San Juan is open, but only during daylight hours due to power and lighting issues. Millions of our fellow citizens are in need of immediate assistance and have been seemingly ignored by this Administration and majority leaders in Congress. I have heard from many New Jerseyans with family and loved ones in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands that are frustrated with the lack of appropriate response by the Trump Administration. I share their concerns and have taken several steps to address these emergencies. Today I, alongside many of my colleagues, sent letters to the President and his Chief of Staff, General John Kelly to demand that every available Federal resource is brought bear assistance to these U.S. territories, propose an interim supplemental relief package for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and request the appointment of a senior general officer to manage a joint response and recovery efforts on the ground. Additionally, I, along with Democrats on the House Homeland Security Committee, sent a letter expressing our serious concern to the inadequate federal response to these disasters, calling for greater emergency aid, and the establishment of a Rebuilding Task Force to help rebuild the areas affected by this season’s hurricanes. My staff has also been in direct contact with FEMA for updates on the situation and we will provide updates for my constituents as we have them. The U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, territories whose residents pay federal taxes while being denied the right to vote, are Americans and we have a legal and moral obligation to protect its citizens from threats to their well-being. It is time to take a break from Twitter antics and hollow statements and save the lives of Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands – they must know they have not been forgotten. I stand ready to do all I can to provide relief for the victims of these disasters.” ###
09.28.2017	Today, Congresswoman Watson Coleman released the following statement on the Ryan-McConnell tax framework: “With the release of their hyper-partisan tax outline, Republicans did exactly what we expected. Slashing taxes for the rich on the backs of hardworking Americans while leaving Democrats - who are eager to produce meaningful and bipartisan solutions - on the sidelines. Their proposal also eliminates personal exemptions and deductions like the state and local tax credit. New Jersey residents already pay the highest effective tax rate in the United States and by eliminating these deductions; NJ residents would pay an additional $3,500 per year in taxes, according to the Tax Policy Center. The Republican fixation on long-discredited trickle-down economics will only serve to blow a hole in our federal budget, drastically increase the debt, and threaten to slash vital federal programs that Americans rely on every day. While our current tax system needs reform, these changes cannot be on the backs of hard-working and low-income Americans. Our tax system must be a vehicle to level the playing field and encourage economic growth, development and job creation but also, fairness; this Republican proposal hardly scratches that standard. I stand ready to work with Republicans in good faith to improve the tax code, but unfortunately this tax proposal is their latest example of partisanship over consensus-building.” ###
09.13.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman announced that she will serve in a leadership role in the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America task forces, a unified effort from the House Democratic Caucus to craft a real legislative agenda that will benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. The congresswoman will serve as co-chair for the Rebuilding America Task Force. “I am proud to serve as a Co-Chair of the Democratic Caucus’s Rebuilding America Task Force and look forward to working with my colleagues to develop and advance solutions that get Americans back to work,” said Watson Coleman. “For far too long, Republicans have pushed the tired narrative that the only way to create jobs is to slash regulations, line the pockets of big business, all while ruining the environment in the process. Democrats know that the creation of good paying, high skilled jobs thrives with investments in energy efficiency and sustainability, educating and training our workforce, and establishing an even playing field for job creators. Our nation has been the leader in tackling expansive projects that create jobs and better our nation and it is time for the Congress to get serious about real solutions to live up to this legacy.” The Rebuilding America Task Force will put Americans back to work by modernizing our nation’s infrastructure, expanding job opportunities in key industries, launching a school construction boom, updating our power grid and water infrastructure, and taking a visionary approach to the projects needed to put our country at the forefront of innovation. The Rebuilding America Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs For America Task Forces aimed at identifying opportunities and solutions for American workers in five key areas: Rebuilding America, Jobs With Dignity, Access to Jobs, New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. In the coming months, co-chairs of each task force will meet with business and labor leaders, issue experts, and American workers to develop policy goals and solutions that will benefit all Americans. The effort was launched by the House Democratic Caucus. “Investing in our infrastructure is one of the most effective ways to secure high-paying, long-term jobs for the hardest-working men and women across the country. This effort will produce specific legislation that will rebuild our nation’s crumbling bridges and roads, build schools, and upgrade an antiquated power grid,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “I’m grateful to Congresswoman Watson Coleman for her leadership in this important effort that will help spur job creation and strengthen our economy.” For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: dems.gov/jobsforamerica ###
09.13.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement on reports that 3 Customs and Border Protection officers were arrested following an investigation into extreme hazing and sexual assault allegations: “In May, upon learning of these allegations, I asked leadership at Customs & Border Protection and the Department of Homeland Security to take swift and necessary action to get to the bottom of this issue - I commend CBP for doing just that. Beyond the outcome of this specific incident we need to work diligently to ensure that CBP and DHS leadership take the steps necessary to eliminate abuse and other inappropriate conduct issues within the agency. It is imperative the men and women who help keep our nation secure can do their jobs safely and with dignity and that they are held to the highest legal, ethical and professional standards.” ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced a federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) totaling $330,268 for the West Windsor Volunteer Fire Company #1. “Our nation’s first responders are often the unsung heroes of emergencies both large and small – first to arrive and last to leave, they work tirelessly to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “I am thrilled that we get to, again, announce that twelfth congressional district fire companies are able to benefit from the AFG program and that local residents can be reassured that we will continue to make certain our first responders have the necessary resources and equipment to do their jobs.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program awards grants directly to fire departments and emergency services to support their efforts to protect the communities they serve. The Fiscal Year 2016 program will award approximately $310.5 million in competitive grants to first responder organizations across the country to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Annually, the office of Rep. Watson Coleman collaborates with FEMA representatives to host local seminars for first-responders highlighting the benefits of this grant program and assist with the application process. Past seminars have been held in coordination with Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06) and included representatives across the district’s municipalities. More information can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants/. ###
09.06.2017	Today, the House Rules Committee rejected an amendment offered by Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman that would direct the Department of Homeland Security to include white supremacy and far-right extremism in its Countering Violent Extremism programming. Created to address the root causes of violent extremism, CVE programming provides resources to communities to build and sustain local prevention efforts and promote the use of counter-narratives to confront violent extremist messaging online. Since January, the Trump Administration has significantly drawn back hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants for countering right-wing extremism and has instead prioritized the role of law enforcement in combating Islamic extremism. “This Administration and Republican-controlled Congress cannot continue to downplay the threat of white nationalism. As Vice Ranking Member for the House Committee on Homeland Security, I’m working hard with my Democratic colleagues to ensure that this nation is protected from all threats – foreign and domestic. This amendment is common sense and Republicans cannot continue to bury their heads in the sand as to the nature of the threats that face our nation,” said. Rep. Watson Coleman. “This President has shown his hand and tacit affinity to white supremacy, and with their refusal to censure him, coupled with their refusal to let this amendment come up for a vote, Republicans are seemingly condoning this President’s troubling and divisive stances.” Last month, Rep. Watson Coleman alongside, Reps. Jerrold Nadler and Pramila Jayapal introduced a censure resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives against President Donald Trump for his comments blaming “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia and excusing the behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally. The resolution has nearly 130 cosponsors, all Democrats. Rep. Watson Coleman also proposed an amendment that would have restored $43 million in funding for TSA’s Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) teams. These teams are deployed to provide security at various transportation facilities, include rail and bus stations. This proposed cut, to one of the few federal programs that supports rail security, comes just one month after Al Qaeda’s magazine urged attacks on rail transportation. ###
09.05.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member on the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that President Trump will terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals initiative: “This Administration’s announcement to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy flies in the face of our nation’s values and interests, breaks the promise we made to thousands of families and undermines the programs proven nationwide benefits. Instead of making a true and concerted effort at immigration reform, the President sent Attorney General Sessions to the podium to break his promise to the over 800,000 men and women who only know this country as home. This is a betrayal of the men and women who make up the fabric of this nation - the over 800,000 young people who are doctors, teacher and public servants. People like Alonso Guillen who gave his life trying to rescue victims of damages caused by Hurricane Harvey in Houston. This Administration isn’t interested in the invaluable contributions DREAMers make to our economy and communities, but instead, is focused on rallying the xenophobic base that fuels the flames of their discrimination. The onslaught of injustice continues under this President and it is imperative that Congress does not sit idly by while this Administration continues to trample upon American values. The time for the tweets and empty statements is over. I am ready to work with my Republican colleagues on creating permanent protections for DREAMers. Republican House leadership must bring the DREAM Act to the floor for a vote. Hundreds of thousands of lives depend on it.” ###
09.05.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member on the Committee on Homeland Security sent the below letter to Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) requesting he follow through on his commitment to find out travel expenses incurred by American taxpayers in furtherance of the Trump Organization. As you will recall, on July 26, the Committee on Homeland Security considered my legislation, H.Res. 447. This resolution would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide Congress with critical information on Trump family travel expenses incurred by American taxpayers in furtherance of the Trump Organization. During consideration of the resolution, Mr. Chairman, you said that you would commit to working with me to “ensure the production of the documents from the Department.” I appreciate your commitment and willingness to assist in this endeavor. Since the committee markup, there have been additional news reports about the impact the Trump family travel has had on DHS. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that the Committee work in a bipartisan fashion to obtain the information requested in the resolution. To that end, I respectfully request that you join me in requesting the following information from the Department of Homeland Security: 1) Any documentation of a payment that, on its face, refers to a business owned or controlled by Donald J. Trump, the Trump Organization or any of its subsidiaries, or any member of the Trump family in the past three years; 2) Any documentation of an expenditure by the Department that, on its face, is identified as being made for services or goods from a business owned or controlled by Donald J. Trump, the Trump Organization or any of its subsidiaries, or any member of the Trump family; 3) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with the protection of Donald J. Trump, Melania Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, Eric Trump, or any other member of the Trump family or Trump Organization while on international travel that has not been documented by the Secretary as in furtherance of the United States Government; 4) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Eric Trump's trip to Uruguay in January 2017; 5) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Eric Trump's trip to the Dominican Republic in February 2017; 6) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Donald Trump, Jr., and Eric Trump's trip to the United Arab Emirates in February 2017; 7) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Donald Trump, Jr.'s and Eric Trump's trip to Canada in February 2017; 8) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Eric Trump's trip to the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland in April 2017; 9) Any documentation of costs to the Department associated with Eric Trump’s trip to the United Kingdom in June 2017 ; and 10) Any documentation referencing guidance, directive, or analysis of any expenditure described in paragraph (1). Following Committee Republicans’ rejection of H.Res. 447, a Resolution of Inquiry that would have directed the DHS to provide all information related to payments it made for Trump Organization or Trump family travel in furtherance of Trump Organization business, Watson Coleman introduced The “Stop Padding Presidential Pockets Act”. This legislation seeks to require anyone who receives Secret Service protection and travels in furtherance of the business interests or financial benefit of the President of the United States to reimburse the U.S. Treasury for costs incurred by the Government pertaining to that travel, including for the provision of Secret Service protection. This bill, if enacted, would ensure that the Trump family pays for the significant costs incurred by the Federal Government for trips that directly benefit the President’s business and financial interests. ###
08.29.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement today on the recognition of the 97th anniversary of Women's Equality Day: “‎On Women’s Equality Day we celebrate the strength and courage of women and honor the impact of our accomplishments when we unite our voices and demand equal rights, access and opportunity. With the enactment of the 19th Amendment, the women’s suffrage movement stands as a lasting affirmation of our country’s democratic promise. It re-emphasizes the importance of the most fundamental democratic value—the right to vote. However, we must still acknowledge that, despite our achievements, the right to vote for millions of Americans—women, people of color, the poor, seniors, young adults, remains under attack to this day in spite of our best efforts. With states “targeting African Americans with almost surgical precision”, the dismantling of the Voting Rights Act with the Shelby decision and the Trump Administration’s absurd so-called Voter Fraud Commission fast at work – there is an all-out assault on our democracy. Voter suppression continues to deny our nation’s most vulnerable citizens’ access to the ballot box and consequently silences their voices at the table of progress and change in their community. We have an enduring responsibility to do everything in our power to ensure that the right to vote is never comprised nor threatened. Speaker Ryan and other Republicans in Congress should bring the Voting Rights Amendment Act(H.R. 2978) to the floor for our vote so that we may combat the injustices sweeping across ballot boxes in our communities. Women have fought for access to the ballot box since this nation’s inception and we must continue to fight to protect our democracy’s most fundamental value - the right to vote. ###
08.22.2017	Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), who authored the censure resolution introduced last week against President Trump for his comments about the violence in Charlottesville, issued the following statement in response to Speaker Paul Ryan saying that he will not support the censure, calling it the “worst thing we could do.” Below is the joint statement issued by Reps. Nadler, Watson Coleman, and Jayapal: “By reducing the resolution censuring President Trump for his Charlottesville comments to a ‘political food fight’, Speaker Ryan has exemplified what we should fear in any leader – the failure to speak out when morally compelled to take action. In the wake of Charlottesville, Democrats and Republicans alike have been moved to reject the President’s ambivalent and wholly inadequate response to acts of domestic terrorism. Many have gone so far as to condemn any attempt to project a moral equivalency between white supremacists, the KKK and neo-Nazis, and those who gathered to protest against the ‘Unite the Right’ rally and the racist ideals it represents. Yet Speaker Ryan remains silent, and continues to omit calling out the President directly for his morally repugnant statements. “President Trump called many of the participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally, “very fine people,” and Speaker Ryan’s remarks provide cover for an Administration that too often has engaged in dog-whistle politics. If Speaker Ryan wishes to clearly and definitively separate the Republican Party from the bigoted and nationalist ideology and policies of these groups, and demonstrate that the President’s comments blaming “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville were not only wrong but out of line with the ideals of this country, then he should get off the sidelines and stop blocking Congress from voting on this censure. “Our censure resolution will make it clear that the United States government does not align itself with the comments made by President Trump, and that those elected to represent the millions of Americans in the United States House of Representatives are vehemently opposed to the hate and ignorance that fuels racism and anti-Semitism. History will judge us for how we acted in this moment. If Congress does not send a clear message to the President, the world will see Congress as complicit and groups peddling in white supremacy, racism and anti-Semitism will feel vindicated and emboldened to continue down their path of hate and violence.” ###
08.18.2017	Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) introduced a censure resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives against President Donald Trump for his comments blaming “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia and excusing the behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally. The censure resolution condemns the President for failing to immediately and specifically name and condemn the white supremacist, Ku Klux Klan, and neo-Nazi groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism in Charlottesville over the weekend, and for doubling-down on his comments by attempting to create a moral equivalency between white supremacists and those counter-protesting the ‘Unite the Right’ rally. The resolution, which was cosponsored by 79 Members of Congress, offers an official censure by Congress of President Trump for his remarks, and calls for the President to fire any and all advisors who have urged him to cater to white supremacist movements in the United States. Nadler, Watson Coleman, and Jayapal issued the following joint statement: “The President’s remarks following the violence in Charlottesville over the weekend are a moral outrage. Refusing to completely and unambiguously denounce white supremacist groups and individuals provides encouragement for their bigoted, nationalist ideology and policies. This is not the position of the United States government, and we must send a clear message to President Trump that his comments are not only wrong, but an affront to the moral convictions and ideals of this country. History will remember how we responded, not just in tweets and prepared statements, but through action and a unified voice. It is incumbent on all Members, from all parties, to not only condemn the President’s remarks, but to issue this censure of the President for the way he has represented our country and constitution.” In addition to Representatives Nadler, Watson Coleman, and Jayapal, the following Members have signed on as cosponsors: Joe Crowley (D-NY), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Bill Foster (D-IL), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Scott Peters (D-CA), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Al Lawson (D-FL), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Greg Meeks (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Tim Walz (D-MN), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), David Loebsack (D-IA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), David Cicilline (D-RI), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Al Green (D-TX), Mark Takano (D-CA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Don Beyer (D-VA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Norma Torres (D-CA), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Donald McEachin (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), James Langevin (D-RI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Alma Adams (D-NC), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA). The full text of the resolution can be found here and below: H. RES. __ Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. 115th CONGRESS 1st Session August 18, 2017 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Mr. NADLER, Ms. WATSON COLEMAN, and Ms. JAYAPAL submitted the following resolution, which was referred to the Committee on _______; RESOLUTION Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. Whereas on August 11, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a gathering of white supremacists, including neo-Nazis, Ku Klux Klan (KKK) members, and other white nationalist groups, marched through the streets with torches as part of a coordinated ‘Unite the Right’ rally spewing racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry and hatred; Whereas on August 12, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a car driven by James Alex Fields, Jr. rammed into a crowd of counter-protestors, killing Heather Heyer and injuring 20 others; Whereas President Donald Trump’s immediate public comments rebuked “many sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and failed to specifically condemn the ‘Unite the Right’ rally or cite the white supremacist, neo-Nazi gathering as responsible for actions of domestic terrorism; Whereas on August 15, 2017 President Donald Trump held a press conference at Trump Tower where he re-asserted that “both sides” were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and attempted to create a moral equivalency between white supremacist, KKK, neo-Nazi groups and those counter-protesting the ‘Unite the Right’ rally; Whereas President Donald Trump has surrounded himself with, and cultivated the influence of, senior advisors and spokespeople who have long histories of promoting white nationalist, racist and anti-Semitic principles and policies within the country; Whereas President Donald Trump has provided encouragement and little to no denunciation of white supremacist groups and individuals who promote their bigoted, nationalist ideology and policies; Whereas President Donald Trump has failed to provide adequate condemnation and assure the American people of his resolve to opposing domestic terrorism: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) does hereby censure and condemn President Donald Trump for his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017, his failure to immediately and specifically name and condemn the white supremacist groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism, for re-asserting that “both sides” were to blame and excusing the violent behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally, and for employing people with ties to white supremacist movements in the White House, such as Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka; and (2) does hereby urge President Donald Trump to fire any and all White House advisors who have urged him to cater to the white supremacist movement in the United States. ###
08.16.2017	Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee and former Chairman and Ranking Member of the Constitution Subcommittee, along with Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) announced a resolution of censure against President Donald Trump for his August 15, 2017 remarks re-asserting earlier comments that “both sides” were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia and excusing the behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally. The resolution censuring and condemning President Trump is set to be introduced on Friday, August 18, 2017, when the U.S. House of Representatives is next in pro forma session. The full text of the prepared censure resolution can be found below: H. RES. __ Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. 115th CONGRESS 1st Session August 18, 2017 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Mr. NADLER, Ms. WATSON COLEMAN, and Ms. JAYAPAL submitted the following resolution, which was referred to the Committee on _______; RESOLUTION Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. Whereas on August 11, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a gathering of white supremacists, including neo-Nazis, Klu Klux Klan (KKK) members, and other alt-Right, white nationalist groups, marched through the streets with torches as part of a coordinated ‘Unite the Right’ rally spewing racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry and hatred; Whereas on August 12, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a car driven by James Alex Fields, Jr. rammed into a crowd of counter-protestors, killing Heather Heyer and injuring 20 others; Whereas President Donald Trump’s immediate public comments rebuked “many sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and failed to specifically condemn the ‘Unite the Right’ rally or cite the white supremacist, neo-Nazi gathering as responsible for actions of domestic terrorism; Whereas on August 15, 2017 President Donald Trump held a press conference at Trump Tower where he re-asserted that “both sides” were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and attempted to create a moral equivalency between white supremacist, KKK, neo-Nazi groups and those counter-protesting the ‘Unite the Right’ rally; Whereas President Donald Trump has surrounded himself with, and cultivated the influence of, senior advisors and spokespeople who have long histories of promoting white nationalist, alt-Right, racist and anti-Semitic principles and policies within the country; Whereas President Donald Trump has provided tacit encouragement and little to no denunciation of white supremacist groups and individuals who promote their bigoted, nationalist ideology and policies; Whereas President Donald Trump has failed to provide adequate condemnation and assure the American people of his resolve to opposing domestic terrorism: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) does hereby censure and condemn President Donald Trump for his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017, his failure to immediately and specifically name and condemn the white supremacist groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism, for re-asserting that “both sides” were to blame and excusing the violent behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally, and for employing people with ties to white supremacist movements in the White House, such as Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka; and (2) does hereby urge President Donald Trump to fire any and all White House advisors who have urged him to cater to the alt-Right movement in the United States. ###
08.15.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement after President Trump reiterated his belief that "both sides" were to blame for white nationalist violence in Charlottesville: "Time and time our Commander-in-Chief squanders every opportunity to show and prove that he is the President for all Americans. His continued false equivocation following the Charlottesville attacks is not only disgusting, it is dangerous. Our nation is looking for true leadership and unity, but this President prefers to pander to his fringe supporters than to clearly state what we all know to be true: racism has no place in this country—full stop. It is clear, the organizers of the “Unite the Right” Rally and its armed, torch-wielding participants sought out and initiated the violence that led to the tragic loss of Heather Heyer’s life and the deaths of two Virginia State Troopers. Our federal government has a responsibility to protect the American people, but it is difficult for us to carry out that responsibility when the Commander-in-Chief refuses to honestly acknowledge the harm that Neo-Nazis, Neo-Confederates, white nationalists, and other hate groups have on our society. Both the Confederacy and the Nazi regime were open enemies to the United States, and their hate led to the deaths of more than a million Americans. There is nothing about either one of these “movements” worthy of celebration, emulation, or pride. But, when the President of the United States gives comfort to these sympathizers by minimizing their culpability in the violence they sew, he dishonors the office of the Presidency and insults the very values that our nation is built upon." ###
08.12.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement condemning violence that occured in Charlottesville, Virginia following protests by white supremacists: The hatred on display in Charlottesville is disgusting, and a stark reminder that racism and bigotry is alive and well to this day. Unfortunately, this is not a surprise for millions of Americans who not only suffer daily at the hands discrimination, but have also witnessed increases in hate speech and hate crimes over the past year corresponding with the political rise of Donald Trump. What is taking place in Charlottesville is nothing short of terrorism; we as a nation must take all threats against the homeland seriously, whether foreign or domestic. As a Vice Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and a member of the the House Oversight Committee, I have been closely working with my colleagues to draw attention to the rise of domestic terrorist treats posed by white nationalists and right wing extremists. Our efforts have been constantly rebuffed by Republicans in Congress and replaced by myopic focus on Islamic terror threats. We ignore the threats from right wing extremists at our peril. I am dismayed and hurt by the hatred and violence taking place in Charlottesville and will continue to pray for the families of the harmed. ###
08.02.2017	U.S. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced that the Ewing Township Fire Department will receive $971,469 in federal funding from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to recruit, train and retain firefighters. The funding was awarded from DHS’ Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. “This grant is great news for the Ewing Fire Department, but also all Ewing residents. Day in and day out this company relies on one another to keep our citizens safe, and this funding will allow them to expand that dedicated team,” said Watson Coleman. “I will continue to advocate for our first responders and ensure they have the resources and support they deserve to perform their duties to best of their ability. The safety of our cities depend on it.” Similar to the popular Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) which grants federal funding in one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters, the SAFER program will award approximately $345 million in competitive grants to local fire departments specifically for the recruitment and retention of volunteer and professional firefighters. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) under the Department of Homeland Security administers both programs. Annually, the office of Rep. Watson Coleman collaborates with FEMA representatives to host local seminars for first-responders highlighting the benefits of this grant program and assist with the application process. Past seminars have been held in coordination with Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06) and included representatives across the district’s municipalities. More information is available at www.fema.gov/firegrants. ###
07.27.2017	The House Committee on Homeland Security rejected a Resolution of Inquiry (H.Res. 447) sponsored by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) that would have directed the Department of Homeland Security to provide all information related to payments it made for Trump Organization or Trump family travel in furtherance of Trump Organization business. In January, President Trump established a revocable trust to hold the Trump Organization for the “exclusive benefit of Donald J. Trump.” Since that time, two of the Presidents children have undertaken costly international travel to promote the Trump brand and business for Trump Organization. Additionally, during the 2016 campaign and subsequent to President Trump’s inauguration, it has been reported that components within the Department of Homeland Security—most notably the U.S. Secret Service and U.S. Coast Guard—have expended significant resources and made payments to the Trump Organization for costs incurred in the course of protecting the President and his family at Trump commercial properties. This information is necessary to carry out oversight into how much the President and his family’s activities to promote the Trump brand is costing the American taxpayer. All Committee Republicans voted against the measure in a party line vote. "Americans want to see their taxes go towards rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, investing in the education of our children, and ensuring our nation’s security. We should be in bipartisan agreement that we should not be wasting already limited homeland security resources on payments to or in furtherance of the business interests of the President,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “Yesterday, to my disappointment, my Republican colleagues demonstrated to the nation that loyalty to their party supersedes the best interests of the American people. They provided no legitimate arguments for why Congress should not seek this information and refused to step up to the plate and work with Democrats to get our constituents answers on whether their tax dollars are lining the President’s pockets. For the sake of transparency, we will continue to implore Chairman McCaul to get the answers we need to do meaningful oversight of the extent to which President Trump and the businesses he still owns receive financial payments and benefits from the Department of Homeland Security.” Today, in response, Watson Coleman introduced The “Stop Padding Presidential Pockets Act”, legislation that seeks to require anyone who receives Secret Service protection and travels in furtherance of the business interests or financial benefit of the President of the United States to reimburse the U.S. Treasury for costs incurred by the Government pertaining to that travel, including for the provision of Secret Service protection. This bill, if enacted, would ensure that the Trump family pays for the significant costs incurred by the Federal Government for trips that directly benefit the President’s business and financial interests. Markup information and video. BACKGROUND: A Resolution of Inquiry is a legislative tool that has privileged parliamentary status, meaning it can be brought to the floor if the relevant Committee has not reported it within 14 legislative days, even if the House Majority has not scheduled it for a vote. Once introduced, the Committee must schedule a markup to consider and debate the measure and vote on whether to report it to the house favorably or unfavorably. If the Committee does not act, it can be called up on the House floor and voted upon by the full House of Representatives.
07.25.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3364 - legislation sanctioning Russia, Iran, and North Korea, as well as constraining President Donald Trump's power to ease or end penalties against Vladimir Putin's government: “The passage of this major and critical legislation reveals the true nature of bipartisanship that has been sorely missing here in Washington. Today, despite this President’s attempts to weaken and undermine this bill, my colleagues here in the House of Representatives can agree that we must protect the integrity of our democracy and the security of the United States and our allies around the globe. It’s been unclear whether this President shares these concerns, but our work must continue. We have a constitutional responsibility as a coequal branch of government to provide a check on the executive branch; this bill reaffirms that duty. It is in the best interest of the American people that we rein in this President’s authority to unilaterally lift sanctions on Russia, especially while so many questions remain unanswered about his troubling relationship with a known foreign adversary.”
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after three Senate Republicans said they’d vote against a key procedural motion to take up a measure to repeal Obamacare without a replacement – dooming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act without a replacement: “Here we go again, with another headline on Republicans’ failure to pass ACA repeal, and their refusal to consider legislation that actually prioritizes the health of all Americans. Quite frankly, this is tiresome. When will Republicans in Congress reach across the aisle and seek compromise? When will Republicans stop playing politics at the expense of the health and lives of millions of Americans? I have been a legislator for almost 20 years and am disheartened to see the erosion of bipartisanship and legislating for the good of those who cast their votes for us. My Democratic colleagues and I stand ready to work with Republicans on a true effort to make the ACA better for all Americans. What we are seeing now is that power is truly in the hands of the people. Day in and day out, regular Americans are standing up, speaking out, and rallying across the country to hold elected officials accountable. Their presence is invaluable and we cannot become complacent. As long as Republicans control Congress or the White House we are vulnerable to these legislative attacks on our protections- whether it is healthcare, the environment or voting rights.” ###
07.18.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman reminded close to a dozen New Jersey leaders that headlines and trending news stories cannot distract from damaging legislation being proposed by House Republicans. “This week my colleagues and I will vote on H.R. 2883 and H.R. 2910, two unnecessary and damaging bills that are solutions in search of a problem,” Watson Coleman said. “All over America, FERC is rubber-stamping projects with very little regard for public interest, environmental impact or safety. These bills would give them further authority to do so with limited input from other agencies. We’ve seen this before – without state input, citizens are in danger. New Jersey is an example.” Last month, Watson Coleman applauded New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection’s decision to deny PennEast’s two permits needed to complete its application for approval. Watson Coleman also re-introduced the SAFER Pipline Act – legislation that would reform the gas pipeline approval process undertaken by the Federal Energy Regulatory Committee (FERC). Watson Coleman offered two amendments to H.R. 2910 – one that would require advance permission from property owners for an aerial/remote survey to be accepted and another that would require that FERC find it in the public interest before allowing a holder of public convenience to exercise eminent domain. However, House Republicans refused to allow votes on these amendments on the floor. “I know we are overwhelmed with coverage on healthcare and this Administration’s collusion with Russia, and the continual attacks on our democracy from the White House, but I raise this issue to you all and other because you need to know that further damage is being done in plain sight,” Watson Coleman said on the call. Participants in the conference call included representatives from Sierra Club, NJ Conservation Foundation, League of Conservation Voters, Halt Penn East, Stony Brook Millstone Watershed Association among others. “With Washington trying to take us backwards on energy policies, the journey to a clean energy future depends upon leadership from the states,” said Tom Gilbert, campaign director for Rethink Energy NJ. “We appreciate that Rep. Watson Coleman, in the face of the chaos that engulfs Washington, is working to stop these damaging policies that attempt to undermine important protections for our land, air and water here in New Jersey and nationwide.” Rep. Watson Coleman is a member of the House of Representatives Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition whose purpose is to advance policies that promote clean energy technology innovation and domestic manufacturing, develop renewable energy resources, and create green collar jobs throughout the product supply-chain and promote legislative action to help arrest global warming and protect our nation’s clean air, water and natural environment. ###
07.14.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, introduced a Resolution of Inquiry directing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide the Committee on Homeland Security with all information and documents it possesses related to payments made by DHS for Trump Organization or Trump family member travel in furtherance of Trump Organization business. This information could include any documentation of payments, expenditures, costs to or by the Department or associated with protection that has not been documented by the Secretary as in furtherance of the United States Government. Once this information is obtained, the Committee can begin to properly investigate this matter. Under House rules, unless the resolution is considered by the Committee within 14 days, it can be called up in the House for immediate consideration. “Each day American taxpayers ask this Administration for a balanced budget, good-paying jobs, living wages and affordable healthcare and instead are paid lip-service as the President and his adult children enrich themselves at America’s expense," said Watson Coleman. "The tax dollars American’s want to see rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, investing in the education of our children and ensuring senior citizens receive adequate return on their investment in our workforce, is instead being wasted furthering the business interests of the Trump Organization. Congress has a constitutional obligation to investigate and ensure that the Department of Homeland Security resources are solely used to ensure the protection of those seeking to prioritize and advocate for the interests of the United States of America." "The Committee on Homeland Security has a duty to “shield the homeland and protect Americans,” which is why I urge my colleagues to investigate these expenses to ensure that our limited federal resources are targeted toward true security needs and not lining the pockets of this President. Approving this resolution would be the first step towards providing answers to the American people and preventing further misuse of taxpayer dollars to line the pocketbook of a President who has made clear that the nation’s best interest is not his first priority.” The Resolution of Inquiry (H. Res. 235) can be found here. BACKGROUND: A Resolution of Inquiry is a legislative tool that has privileged parliamentary status, meaning it can be brought to the floor if the relevant Committee has not reported it within 14 legislative days, even if the House Majority has not scheduled it for a vote. Once introduced, the Committee must schedule a markup in that period to consider and debate the measure and vote on whether to report it to the house favorably or unfavorably. If the Committee fails to act, it can be called up on the House floor and voted upon by the full House of Representatives.
07.13.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman celebrated the passage of her amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Department of Defense (DOD) to implement critical changes to the Army National Guard and Army Reserve's sexual assault prevention and response programs in areas such as staffing, budget management, and investigation timeliness. “I am pleased that we have taken the necessary steps to help foster a system that encourages service members to seek adequate help and care in the event of a sexual assault,” said Watson Coleman. “Congress has a responsibility to protect the service members who make immeasurable sacrifices to serve and protect our country. Sexual violence is criminal behavior that has no place in our military, and we must regain the trust of the service members who have been brave enough to come forward to report these crimes by bettering our military justice system.” More than 500,000 members currently serve in the Army Guard and Reserve. The Department of Defense has taken steps to address sexual assaults of servicemembers, generally, but reports show that sexual harassment in the military is widely underreported. The amendment directs the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Chiefs of the National Guard Bureau and the Army Reserve to develop and implement an expedited, thorough and confidential process for sexual assault victims, redistribute staffing resources to ensure timely processing of cases and ensure the efficient use of taxpayer dollars for programming needs. The passage of NDAA for fiscal year 2018 also included two additional amendments proposed by Watson Coleman. The first affirming Congressional support for the nondiscrimination policy of the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York, as applied to female cadets, staff, and faculty and the second extending reporting requirements for diversity inclusion in military leadership – a requirement set to expire this year. Watch Rep. Watson Coleman's floor remarks here. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement on the House passage of the Protecting Access to Care Act: “Republicans here in Congress insist on passing legislation in search of a problem. Medical malpractice lawsuits are far from the biggest threat to access to affordable care - the Republican attacks on the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, the sick and the poor is the true threat. Instead of working on the real issues at hand, they insist on attacking the ability for people harmed in health care settings from pursuing justice—capping noneconomic damages, imposing excessively short statutes of limitation, and making it harder for victims to obtain an attorney. This entire exercise is a dangerous affront to both the health and safety of the American people, but also the entire justice system our democracy is founded upon. This week I sent a letter to my colleagues to encourage them to vote no on this bill and spoke on the floor in opposition. It is important that the American people understand that Republicans in Congress will seemingly go to any length to patronize powerful interests at the expense of everyday Americans.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released its analysis of Senate Republicans’ current draft of Trumpcare: “How many times do we need to send these failed dangerous bills to CBO before Republicans end their obsession with stripping healthcare from tens of millions of Americans? No wonder this bill was written in secret - the latest iteration of Trumpcare continues this Administration’s abandonment of hardworking families, and the sick and older American’s in favor of making the rich, richer. By leaving 22 million more Americans uninsured by 2026, this bill is stamping the death certificates of our most vulnerable and those in the most need. The bottom line was made clear today – this bill makes insurance unaffordable for the poor to fund tax cuts for the rich. Virtually every legitimate healthcare industry and advocacy group strongly opposes this bill. Our nation’s physicians, hospitals, patient groups, consumer protections groups, faith leaders and teachers have laid out specific examples as to how this ridiculous bill will destroy access to care, make Americans sicker, and subject hardworking Americans to higher costs. But yet and still, Donald Trump and his allies in Congress steam ahead on their quest to meet their hyper-partisan political promises at the expense of the welfare of the rest of us. ###
06.23.2017	Today, U.S. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced a federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) totaling $64,766 for the Plainfield Fire Division. This award announcement follows a strong letter of support from Rep. Watson Coleman to the peer-reviewed AFG program citing the city’s desire to “proactively and adequately address the needs of a growing population.” “The health and safety of our firefighters is critical as they respond to crisis situations, answer calls for help and, most importantly, save lives,” said Watson Coleman. “The AFG program continues to ensure that our first-responders can best support the residents, businesses and infrastructure of Plainfield and communities nationwide.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program awards grants directly to fire departments and emergency services to support their efforts to protect the communities they serve. The Fiscal Year 2016 program will award approximately $310.5 million in competitive grants to first responder organizations across the country to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. “This grant will allow us to ensure our equipment is adequate enough to meet our mutual aid responsibilities and, through the purchase of a washer and dryer, keep our firefighters healthy by removing the carcinogens from their turnout gear,” said Plainfield Fire Division Chief Frank Tidwell. “We sincerely appreciate the efforts and support of Congresswoman Watson Coleman and her commitment to the safety and health of all of her constituents.” Annually, the office of Rep. Watson Coleman collaborates with FEMA representatives to host local seminars for first-responders highlighting the benefits of this grant program and assist with the application process. Past seminars have been held in coordination with Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06) and included representatives across the district’s municipalities. More information can be found at www.fema.gov/firegrants/.
06.19.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman joined the Middlesex Democratic Organization’s LGBT Caucus to raise the county’s first-ever Pride flag in a ceremony held on June 17. “Each year when we pause to recognize Black History Month, Women’s History Month, Hispanic Heritage Month and in June, Pride Month – we are pausing in celebration of America.” said Watson Coleman. “What makes America great is the diversity of who we are and how we each bring our gifts to the enterprise of making our nation better.” Held at the Middlesex County Administration Building, the program brought together state and local elected officials and over three dozen county residents to celebrate Pride Month and honor and remember the 49 men and women victims of the Pulse night club shooting in Orlando. In remarks, Michael Spadoro, Chairperson of the Middlesex Democratic Organization's LGBT Caucus, recognized the flag as the first of its kind in Middlesex county, “one of the most diverse in the country.” He provided a brief history of Pride Month which was celebrated for the 26th time in Asbury Park two weeks ago. “Events like these bring us one step closer to equality. It's great to know that our representatives 'have our back' here in Middlesex County,” said Spadoro. At the ceremony, Watson Coleman announced her plans to reintroduce the Customer Non-Discrimination Act in Congress. This legislation would amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to prohibit discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity in public accommodations. Additionally, it would update the public spaces and services covered in current law to include retail stores, services such as banks and legal services, healthcare providers, and transportation services – updates that would strengthen existing protections for everyone. In March, Watson Coleman introduced an amendment to Scholarships for Opportunity Results Act calling for the protection of LGBT students from discrimination in private and religious schools that receive government funding. The Republican-controlled U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform struck down the amendment. ”We must remember that we are a country of laws and we don’t take inclusion lightly. Government has a distinct role in protecting us and lifting us up,” said Watson Coleman at Saturday’s event. “We want to lift hope, commitment, and solidarity for all people.” Watson Coleman is a member of the Congressional Equality Caucus and the Transgender Equality Task Force. For more photos from this event, visit the Congresswoman’s Facebook page here. ###
06.16.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on news from the Administration that it has rescinded the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and plans to preserve the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The Administration’s announcement that it is rescinding DAPA reflects the President’s inhumane immigration policies where fear is prioritized over families. American immigration policy has long recognized the fundamental value in keeping families together, and DAPA was a continuation of this consensus. Unfortunately, this President continues to violate the norms on which our nation is based. “I am relieved that Secretary Kelly has indicated that DACA will remain in place for now after recognizing the broad bipartisan support from the American public to protect DREAMers. Going forward, Congress must continue to be vigilant in ensuring the Trump Administration keeps its commitment to these young people and ultimately must act legislatively to pass comprehensive immigration reform, so we do not have to rely on the erratic decisions of this President.” ###
06.15.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the below statement on the five year anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. In addition, Watson Coleman celebrates Immigrant Heritage Month in new video message. On DACA Anniversary: “Five years ago, when President Obama created the DACA program, he simultaneously enabled its beneficiaries to come out of the shadows and become engaged participants in our communities and our country. This program has not only reached the intended beneficiaries, as each day these men and women help weave the ever growing fabric of our nation. This program has been essential to ensure that those individuals brought to the United States as children, through no fault of their own, are able to work and study just like other Americans. Sadly, the Trump Administration refuses to guarantee the public that DACA recipients are protected under current administration policy. A refusal that simply flies in the face of nation’s values and interests, breaks the promise we made to these families and undermines the programs proven nationwide benefits. It is my hope that this Congress works together to further the progress that DACA initiated, through comprehensive immigration reform, to ensure that the American dream continues be attainable for all.” Immigrant Heritage Month Video: Click to play
06.14.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement after a gunman opened fire on a practice for the Congressional Baseball game: “I am sending an abundance of prayers to my colleague Rep. Steve Scalise, U.S. Capitol Police, staff and all those affected by this morning’s vicious attack. The bravery and dedication of our first responders is to be revered and, as law enforcement works through the details of this cowardly attack on our nation’s public servants, I thank them for their quick and swift response. But for God’s grace and their heroism, this could have been a mass killing, not unlike the tragedy that transpired in Orlando. This incident is a stark reminder that moments like these we are not Republicans and Democrats – we are Americans. In light of this, I suggested to my colleagues this morning that we play tomorrow’s game with bipartisan teams. We were all elected to serve in the best interest of the nation to implement the policies that protect the safety and security of the American people – no matter where we are.” ###
06.07.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released this statement following the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch as Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court: “It is sad that Senate Republicans had to resort to permanently changing Senate rules to confirm a Supreme Court nominee that was so extreme he couldn't garner a strong bipartisan consensus of support. Concerns about Judge Gorsuch reached beyond party politics, including his troubling legal record on women's reproductive rights and prioritizing businesses over the health and well-being of workers and the public—a record far outside the mainstream. I'm disappointed -- but not surprised -- that President Trump refused to put forth a more unifying nominee to the highest court in the land.” ###
05.31.2017	Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after it was reported that the Trump Administration will pull out of the landmark, 195-signatory Paris Climate Agreement: “Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is just the latest example of his Administration’s hostility towards facts and science. This reckless and short-sighted action, sadly, reinforces President Trump’s commitment to skirting our national responsibility for climate change. Climate change is a global crisis that requires not only international cooperation, but also, the United States’ leadership as the world’s second largest contributor. By pulling out of the Paris Agreement, we are reneging on our international commitments and setting a terrible example on the world stage for those other nations who look to the United States for guidance. It is impossible for us to expect our partners to honor their commitments if the United States cannot live up to our own. President Trump cannot continue to bury his head in the sand about the devastating consequences of climate change at the expense of our planet’s future. This decision is proof that even in his inadequacy as our nation’s leader he has surrounded himself with people who are just as ill-equipped or ill-advised to make decisions with international implications. Donald Trump’s international commitment to climate change should not center around building seawalls to protect his golf courses in Ireland—the American people deserve real leadership on the global stage that we can be proud of, not self-centered political grandstanding that leaves us weaker each day.” ###
05.19.2017	In advance of one of the busiest travel holidays of the year, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation with Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee for Transportation and Protective Security Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) that would help ease congestion and long lines at TSA screening checkpoints at airports. In 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from the airline passenger security fees to offset unrelated government spending. The FASTER Act, H.R. 2514, would ensure that passenger security fees only go towards aviation security and prevent Congress from raiding the funds in the future. “Airline travel is often frustrating, with long lines and delays adding to an already stressful situation,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “There is ample funding—paid for by the consumer—that exists to ease this congestion, but it’s being diverted to cover government debt. President Trump’s recent “skinny budget” shows that he wants to raise airport security fees, but continue diverting the money to the General Fund. Instead of pushing for outrageous priorities like a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, the President should focus on directing designated funds towards their intended purpose that will actually improve our national security along with improving the efficiency of airport security.” In Fiscal Year 2016, passengers paid more than $3.6 billion in aviation security fees. However, of that money, $1.25 billion went to fund other federal priorities. In total, over $15 billion has been diverted from airport security to the General Fund since 2013. While this money has been diverted, the number of airline travelers has increased substantially. Because of TSA staffing shortages and increased security measures, airport security lines across the country have become longer, with passengers sometimes waiting in line for hours or missing flights. The FASTER Act would redirect billions of dollars in funding back to the TSA, so they can begin to address personnel shortages, decrease passenger wait times, and ensure a more efficient and safer screening process. “As summer travel season approaches, it is especially important that TSA has the resources necessary to ensure effective and efficient security screening,” said Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security. “The security fee consumers pay on each ticket should be dedicated to just that – security. Diverting those funds to other budget programs is a gimmick and Congress should, instead, pass this legislation so these fees are used in line with their original purpose – protecting America’s travelers.” “TSA’s past problems did not occur overnight,” said Rep. Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security. “TSA needs the proper resources to be able to invest in its people and technology and make measurable improvements. One of the largest resource gaps TSA faces is the over a billion dollars of fees it collects from fliers that is being diverted away from aviation security towards deficit reduction. The bill we are introducing today will allow TSA to retain the fees it collects so it can properly staff airports around the country, operate as effectively as possible, and help secure our skies.” “The traveling public expects that when they spend money on a fee to cover their airport security screening, that’s where their money is going,” said Airlines for America President and CEO Nicholas E. Calio. “It’s disingenuous, and frankly wrong, for the government to break that commitment to passengers by diverting those funds to other matters that have nothing to do with aviation security. We applaud Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Watson Coleman for introducing this important legislation that ensures passenger fees go towards their stated purpose.” "Airports welcome the introduction of the FASTER Act by Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Watson Coleman to end the practice of diverting $1.28 billion this fiscal year and $13 billion over the decade of 9/11 Passenger Security Fees away from TSA's core aviation security mission to subsidize non-aviation related purposes," Airports Council International-North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke said. "The safety and security of the traveling public is the top priority for airports. We urge Congress to act on this legislation to ensure TSA has the resources it needs to operate more effectively and efficiently."
05.15.2017	Today, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), and Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) sent a letter to the Acting Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) regarding media reports revealing allegations of longtime sexual assault and crude hazing by CBP Officers at Newark Liberty International Airport. In the letter the Members write: “There is no place for this type of conduct at CBP or anywhere else in the Department of Homeland Security.” “[W]e are deeply concerned that CBP leadership in Newark did not have procedures in place to discover and appropriately respond to this behavior sooner and that CBP Headquarters is apparently not properly overseeing Field Offices and ports of entry to prevent this conduct from occurring. Furthermore, these allegations raise serious questions about whether similar conduct is occurring elsewhere within CBP or the Department.” Link to Letter # # #
05.12.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement on guidance issued yesterday by Attorney General Sessions that orders federal prosecutors to pursue the toughest charges and sentences for crime suspects, including those suspected of non-violent, low-level drug offenses: “Coretta Scott King feared that the confirmation of Jeff Sessions would have a “devastating effect on the judicial system”, and with this recent guidance to federal prosecutors, that fear has been realized. I am disturbed at the enthusiasm of the Attorney General and this Administration to reinstate and enforce a policy will have no redeeming aspects on the rehabilitation of the prison population nor will make our communities safer. While in the New Jersey state legislature, I found that harsh mandatory minimum sentences do nothing to deter or lessen crime and fills prisons with nonviolent offenders at a great cost to taxpayers. Social justice advocates and experts, with the support of communities and lawmakers nationwide, have growing consensus that we cannot afford policies that are economically disastrous and ineffective. Further, we must not overlook the relationship between the Attorney General, this Administration and the private prison industry. Attorney General Sessions’ directive to federal prosecutors raises suspicion of his desire to fill these facilities by any means necessary – an incentive that, in the past, incarcerated an entire generation in a disparate way. That’s why I introduced legislation that would require the termination of contracts with for-profit confinement facilities nationwide. We need criminal justice reform that is geared towards making communities safer and reducing our imprisoned populations instead of rolling back improvements we’ve made. The directive on sentencing, coupled with the president’s guidance to resume the use of private prisons, is just another illustration of how this Administration seeks to line the pockets of the wealthy and, clearly, has nothing to do with justice. Criminal justice reform is yet another area for coordination and cooperation on both sides of the aisle but, this Administration is insistent on going in the wrong direction. The Department of Justice should be committed to acquiring the resources it needs to perform and complete a thorough and aggressive investigation into this Administration’s ties to Russia, inclusive of the Attorney General, instead of trying to refill our prisons on the backs of vulnerable communities.” ###
05.11.2017	“The reports of an oil leak from the unfinished Dakota Access Pipeline, sadly reaffirms the projects' severe threat to our environment and the surrounding communities. Last year, Americans from across the nation braved deadly winter conditions and violent suppression by law enforcement alongside the Standing Rock Sioux community to draw attention to the serious health, safety, and cultural risks associated with this project - risks that were being disregarded by regulators. On April 6, their concerns and protests were further validated. The officials at the South Dakota’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources attempt to minimize this by posting the information to the online database without notifying the public is troubling, shameful and does a huge disservice to the public. As a member of Congress, I have long stood behind the Standing Rock Sioux [link to letter and against the rubber stamping energy projects that have clear and irreversible negative environmental consequences. The government at every level has a duty to protect all Americans, especially the most vulnerable and marginalized. DAPL is just one example of harmful energy projects across the country -- including my very own district -- that faces tremendous and valid community opposition, yet, are still ushered through the approval process due to inadequate federal review. That is why, just yesterday, I announced that I am reintroducing the SAFER Pipelines Act to begin to restore the public's expectations and confidence in a thorough review of these impactful energy decisions.
05.10.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after President Donald Trump abruptly fired Federal Bureau of Investigations Director James Comey: “On the heels of FBI Director James Comey’s testimony that confirmed an active investigation into this Administration’s ties to Russia, business entanglements and conflicts of interest - the President has fired Director Comey. It is extremely suspicious and troubling that in the midst of growing questions about the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia’s interference into our democracy, Attorney General Sessions, who recused himself, could recommend the dismissal of the person in charge of carrying out that very investigation. Who is now in charge of this investigation? We are well beyond the point of a special prosecutor. I have zero confidence in the ability of any Trump-appointed FBI Director to independently carry out the numerous and forthcoming investigations surrounding this President and his associates. It has never been clearer that we need to appoint an independent commission and I invite my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to echo this call. The tale of a President firing the person in charge of leading an investigation against the Executive Branch is, unfortunately, written in America’s history books. We know how this ends.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement on the House passage of TrumpCare: “The premature victory lap at White House is the latest illustration that this President and his backslappers in Congress care more about politics than the wellbeing of the constituents they swore to protect. While at the White House, House Republicans and the President celebrated the House vote for TrumpCare – an effective slap in the face to millions of men, and children nationwide. How callous and out of touch do House Republicans have to be to celebrate stripping health care from more than 24 million Americans, and reneging on pledges to protect people with preexisting conditions? Despite pleas from parents of children born with pre-existing conditions, ill patients who received life-saving care, and the hard-working men, women and their children who showed up at town halls nationwide – House Republicans insist on these UnAmerican attacks against them. “This moment makes me sad and angry; I came to Congress to help people, not to harm them. But, I will continue to fight.” ###
04.24.2017	Ewing, NJ – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, requesting clarification on policies toward individuals granted Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). Following reports of the deportation of Juan Manuel Montes, a 23-year old DACA recipient from California, the letter highlights contradictory statements made by senior officials on current Administration policy. Watson Coleman cites, “as the Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, the complex nature of the enforcement of these policies and multiple agencies involved in enforcing immigration laws - it is crucial that the Administration speak with one voice on this matter, so the public can fully understand its positon and this policy.” Excerpts from the letter are below. On conflicting statements from Trump Administration officials: “You’ve indicated that “DACA status is a commitment … by the government” which has since given the reassurance to these young men and women of our commitment to them and their education.”…“ Sadly, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer and Attorney General Jeff Sessions each refused to guarantee the public that DACA recipients were protected under current administration policy.” On DACA and its impact on immigrant communities: “The DACA program has been essential to ensuring that those individuals brought to the United States as children, through no fault of their own, are able to work and study just like other Americans. The DACA program has enabled its beneficiaries to come out of the shadows and be engaged participants in our communities and our country. This program has not only reached the intended beneficiaries but each day these men and women help weave the ever growing fabric of our nation. ###
04.19.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, with support from all democratic members of the New Jersey congressional delegation, sent a letter to Senate Major Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urging them to oppose the confirmation of Former U.S. Representative Scott Garrett to lead the Export-Import Bank. The letter highlights statements made by Garrett “deems him unfit to assume the role of President and carry forth its mission to facilitate the export of U.S. goods and services and promote job creation across the United States.” Excerpts from the letter are below and can be read here. On Garrett’s public statements & congressional record.. “Mr. Garrett’s [opposition to]... EXIM are clear, unambiguous, and far beyond the mainstream. He has referred to EXIM as “corporate welfare,” “crony capitalism,” and categorized it as “a bank that embodies the corruption of the free enterprise system.” Mr. Garrett’s opposition contributed to Congress’s inability to renew EXIM’s charter in 2015, resulting in a 5-month lapse in authorization. The full functions of the agency were finally restored following extraordinary procedural maneuvering in the U.S. House and the successful passage of a discharge petition.” On Garrett’s opposition of ExIm at the expense of New Jerseyans.. “Since 2012, the bank has facilitated $3 billion in New Jersey exports from 164 companies; 130 of these companies were small businesses. More than a quarter of that export activity — $827 million — was from Mr. Garrett’s former congressional district. Instead of working on behalf of his constituents to support or build upon the outsized benefits that EXIM had provided to his constituents, Mr. Garrett chose to lead a stubborn opposition to the agency's record of job creation.” ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON — Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released this statement after U.S. forces conducted a tomahawk missile strike targeting a Syrian government airfield, following a brutal chemical weapons attack perpetrated by the Assad Regime: “We need to take decisive steps to combat Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s war crimes, but Congress has a Constitutional duty to ensure a calculated and warranted response – especially when that response requires military action. We honor and pray for the courageous men and women of our military for their continued sacrifices on behalf of our nation. The commitment of these men, women, and their families make it critical for the President to engage in a dialogue with Congress about the rationale of this drastic measure and any further action being considered – a debate that should have transpired ahead of these airstrikes. Seemingly short-sighted actions like these strikes have a potential to be regressive and dangerous. Passing a new Authorization for Use of Military Force would allow Congress to establish a responsible plan through debate to move toward peace in Syria. This President owes the American people an explanation of his strategy and a clear plan to execute his goals. The Administration’s “America First” agenda cannot leave out the American people nor the men and women elected to serve in their best interests.” ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) made the following statement following the Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to bring H.R. 1628 “The American Health Care Act” to the House Floor for a vote: “It looks like Speaker Ryan finally, albeit briefly, came to his senses in his decision to pull the vote on the GOP’s dangerous and inhumane health care bill. TrumpCare, as it stands, will cost 41,400 of my constituents their health coverage and the Republican cuts to Medicaid will devastate the most vulnerable in our communities. All the while our nation’s wealthiest will see massive tax breaks. Fortunately, due the outpouring of grassroots opposition across the country, a bipartisan majority recognized that Trumpcare was precisely the opposite of what Congress should be doing to address the health care challenges in our country. On both sides of the aisle, we need to focus on more important issues like strengthening the Affordable Care Act, creating jobs, and investigating the collusion that may exist between this Administration and our foreign adversary – Russia – rather than continuing these futile efforts to strip health coverage from millions of Americans.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s FY2018 Budget proposal: “This budget proposal makes it abundantly clear that President Trump is not only furthering his attacks on working mothers and fathers and vulnerable communities, but he also seeks to halt the innovation, investments, and resources that have truly made our nation great. Funneling billions of dollars into military spending at the expense of our nation’s infrastructure, the education of our youth, protections for seniors, and clean air and water is simply disgraceful and exposes his true intention to make good on unrealistic campaign promises instead of prioritizing America’s best interests. Fortunately, this is solely a proposal, and leaves the onus on Congress to ensure the budget preserves and extends our nation’s prosperity, national security and the health of all Americans. Never would I have thought we’d have to defend these core values against a presidential administration.” ###
03.09.2017	On March 22, the office of Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, in partnership with the IRS’ Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program, will host local partners to inform constituents on federal resources available to assist in filing taxes ahead of the April 18 deadline. Representatives from United Way of Greater Mercer Co., AARP and Rutgers University Low Income Tax Clinic will participate and inform constituents on relevant services available. The event will begin at 1p.m. at the Boys & Girls Club, 1040 Spruce Street, Lawrence, NJ. “There are too many cases where constituents are not aware of federal resources available designed solely for their benefit,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “I remain committed to making the government more responsive to the needs of my constituents and hope this event will provide attendees affordable and convenient options to meet the tax deadline and avoid penalty.” The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people who generally make $54,000 or less, persons with disabilities and limited English speaking taxpayers who need assistance in preparing their own tax returns. IRS-certified volunteers provide free basic income tax return preparation with electronic filing to qualified individuals. Inquiries about this event can be directed to Rep. Watson Coleman’s district office: (609) 883-0026. ###
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ-12) announced that Jamilah Lemieux, Vice President of News and Men's Programming for Interactive One and outspoken champion of Black women and girls, will deliver the keynote address at her inaugural ‘& Girls’ Conference in Princeton, NJ. This event, hosted on behalf of the Congressional Caucus for Black Women & Girls, will take place on April 1 at Princeton University, McCosh Hall, 50 McCosh Circle Princeton, NJ 08540. “Jamilah and I share a passion for the important causes of advancing women’s rights and eliminating significant and often overlooked barriers that impact Black women and girls. I look forward to her sharing the insights she has gained through both her career and activism,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “In this 115th Congress, and more importantly in a Trump Administration, this caucus and its work could not be more critical. This conference is another way we can ensure that we remain on the front lines of all issues and decisions that directly affect Black women and girls.” Lemieux is a fierce advocate for racial equality, social justice, and LGBT rights/acceptance. Race, gender, and sexuality are her passion. Prior to her current position at Interactive One, she served as the Senior Editor at EBONY and in 2014, was named to The Root 100 list of the nation's most influential African Americans, as well as Fortune's list of the most influential women on Twitter. Attendees will also hear from Dr. Kimberlè W. Crenshaw, a leader in the intellectual movement called Critical Race Theory, Angela Rye, CNN political commentator and NPR political analyst, Emmy award-winning news anchor Stacey Bell and Marley Dias, the 12 year-old social activist behind #1000BlackGirlBooks. The ‘& Girls’ Conference will be a day of collecting an intellectual inventory from girls ranging from 10 to 23 years of age on their daily challenges and thoughts on their standing in America. Participants will also hear from public policy experts, activists, and community influencers throughout a series of breakout sessions and panel discussions. Their input will inform their peers, Black women, elected officials at the state and local level, and Members of Congress, on how to proactively advocate for, and move meaningful policy forward and continue to break down barriers to their success. All interested participants are asked to register by March 17. Rep. Watson Coleman, alongside her colleagues, U.S. Representatives Robin Kelly (D-IL) and Yvette Clarke (D-NY), launched the Congressional Caucus on Black Women & Girls to ensure a dedicated body in Congress worked to push forward public policy that eliminates significant, and often overlooked, barriers and disparities that affect Black women and girls. Despite more than 430 registered congressional caucuses and Member organizations, no group on Capitol Hill has sought to make Black women and girls a priority in the policy debates that occur there and this caucus will continue to fill that gap. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement in response to President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. “Donald Trump is treating the presidency like a reality TV show when the livelihood of the American people is at stake. What millions of American witnessed on camera tonight is window dressing for the divisive proposals championed by President Trump and Republicans in Congress. As he continues to check boxes on promises he has not and cannot deliver, the American people must know they are being led astray. He called for support of our law enforcement officers while Republicans in Congress sought to, today, pass two bills that would work against the safety of those very officers and the communities they serve. He gives lip service to investments in women’s health, but continues to support the dismantling of affordable healthcare and protections that do just that. He claimed to support and the promotion of clean air and clean water but continues to rip up federal environmental protections and dismantles the EPA. He spoke of access to quality education and the freedom of choice yet looks to divest from public education. These empty promises backed by policies that go against the very democracy this nation was founded on will continue to put Americans, our economy and this nation is danger. The President’s address was, if nothing else, the true argument for not losing elections.” ###
02.28.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman announced the reopening of her mobile office in Plainfield beginning Wednesday, March 1. This office, open on the first Wednesday of each month, serves as an extension of her Ewing district office will be housed in the City Hall building. This mobile office is dedicated to assisting residents across New Jersey’s twelfth congressional district with a variety of federal matters and providing area residents with convenient access to all their elected officials and the services they provide. The mobile office is located in City Hall at 515 Watchung Avenue, 2nd Floor Room 205, Plainfield, NJ 07060. “I work tirelessly while in Washington to ensure that the concerns and needs of my constituents are met. The re-opening of this mobile office will ensure that across our wide district everyone has access to the services and support they need,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “I am thankful to the government of Plainfield for allowing us to work in tandem and hear the countless ideas, tackle challenges and meet our goals for the twelfth district.” The twelfth Congressional District serves over 730,000 constituents throughout parts of Mercer, Middlesex, Somerset and Union Counties. There are no appointments needed, but for assistance or questions, please call the office at (609) 883-0026, visit us on the web at www.watsoncoleman.house.gov, or drop in to meet one-on-one with a district representative. ###
02.09.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, along with members of the state and local New Jersey government, sent a letter to Cheryl A. LaFleur, Acting Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), to express grave concerns regarding the Williams Transco’s Northeast Supply Enhancement project and proposed compressor station. “This letter echoes the concern this community has continuously expressed to its federal, state and local elected officials as well as private sector partners. Williams has not done enough to ensure the community that these grievances are taken seriously nor done their due diligence to address the uncertainty of health and safety impacts in the surrounding communities,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “The bipartisan group of lawmakers that signed this letter serves only to reinforce the level of community concern about this poorly planned proposal and project.” The proposed 32,000-horsepower gas compressor is planned to be built at the Trap Rock Quarry on Route 27. Trap Rock Quarry, a quarry with active blasting, is located on New Jersey’s second largest aquifer. This quarry has been historically problematic to the health and safety of the residents in the surrounding area because of the noise, pollution and debris. Additionally, local first responders have limited access to the area and restricted fire safety resources in the event of a problem or accident at the substation. Concerns with this project and others nationwide predicated legislation Rep. Watson Coleman introduced last year entitled the SAFER Pipelines Act. This bill would reform the gas pipeline approval process undertaken by FERC in order to ensure a comprehensive analysis that considers the cumulative impact of gas pipeline projects and better assesses need for new pipelines. ###
02.02.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) penned a letter to the members of the entire New Jersey congressional delegation requesting their attendance at a meeting with Muslim community leaders from New Jersey. On February 14, they will convene to hear firsthand from constituents on their impressions of President Trump’s Executive Orders on immigration. “Regardless of where my colleagues and I stand on the merits of these Executive Orders, our delegation is most effective when we are all on one accord. I look forward to working with my colleagues to provide our constituents with the support and guidance that they expect and deserve and this bipartisan meeting serves to meet that need.” This meeting request follows a conference call Rep. Watson Coleman hosted with Muslim leaders across her district earlier this week. Since the signing of the Executive Order and its implementation worldwide, staff members have fielded concerns from constituents who are members of the Muslim community, their families and friends with deep concern. Yesterday, the Congresswoman led a moment of silence on the House Floor memorializing the terrorist attack in Quebec City – the first federal acknowledgment, to date. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Colleague, I am inviting you to participate in a meeting with New Jersey Muslim community leaders to hear firsthand their impressions of President Trump’s Executive Orders on immigration. This meeting will take place on February 14, 2017 at 4:00 pm. Regardless of where you stand on the merits of President Trump’s Executive Orders on immigration, it is clear that New Jersey constituents are significantly impacted by the implications of this decision. These concerns have been acutely expressed within the Muslim community. As such, I feel it is important that we as a bipartisan delegation have an opportunity to hear directly from our constituents in a private setting. I am proud that New Jersey has been a positive national model of the rich benefits of diversity and inclusion. I am also humbled by tremendous record of local, state, and federal leadership on behalf that our delegation has collectively achieved. As we continue to carry out the work on behalf of our constituents, I look forward to working closely with each of you to uphold both our national security and founding values. ### Media Contact: Kirsten Allen (202) 225-5801
01.31.2017	Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman was elected, unanimously, by her Democratic colleagues to serve as Vice Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee for the 115th Congress. She released the following statement: “I’m honored by the opportunity to serve alongside Ranking Member Thompson, my fellow democratic colleagues and the committee as a whole. I look forward to advancing policies to keep Americans safe from an array of threats to our national security. Terrorism has directly affected my district, so I know first-hand that the work of this committee is essential to the well-being and safety of not only New Jersey but also the nation. As we begin our work with a volatile and, seemingly, unprepared Trump Administration, it is more important than ever that we stand firm in the fight against terror – both foreign and domestic – and move closer to meaningful and impactful solutions for the entire Department of Homeland Security.” In the 114th Congress, Rep. Watson Coleman served as the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency, was the primary sponsor of three bills that passed the full House, and worked with her colleagues to improve the operations of our national security infrastructure. “I want to congratulate Congresswoman Watson Coleman on being chosen by her colleagues to be Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security. In this position, she will help me lead the Committee Democrats as we ensure the Department of Homeland Security and its federal, state, local, and private sector partners are working together to keep our nation secure,” said Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS). “Not only is Congresswoman Watson Coleman experienced in government – she is a fighter – and I know she will stand for what’s right.” Her election as Vice Ranking Member follows her appointment as Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Transportation & Protective Security under the same Committee. ### Media Contact: Kirsten Allen (202) 225-5801
01.28.2017	Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) released the following statement on the effects of President Trump’s Executive Order: “Rounding out his first full week as president, Donald Trump continues to make a mockery of the ideals upon which our nation was founded. In addition, his de facto Muslim ban is contrary to the national security interests of the United States. His actions are not only discriminatory and bigoted, but also reckless, dangerous and counterproductive to any authentic effort to defeat terrorism. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I am concerned this will only serve to stoke anti-American resentment across the globe, including our international partners committed to eradicating global terror threats." "By continuing to take advantage of fear and misplaced hatred, this administration's incendiary Muslim ban has created confusion and chaos that is rippling around the world. As our federal agencies and international partners seek to understand and combat this meritless policy I'm asking that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, on which I sit, hold an immediate hearing on with leadership at the Department of Homeland Security to review concerning reports about the crafting and execution of President Trump's order. I am also requesting that he House Homeland Security Committee, which I also serve on, moves up its February 7 hearing on this issue so that we may urgently address the national security implications of the Trump Administration's actions. New Jersey's Twelfth District includes individuals who are nationals of the seven targeted nations, U.S. citizens with families living in those nations, and local businesses with impacted employees across the globe." "These irrational actions on his part give us grave concern about the safety of both the American public at home, as well as our citizens, troops and personnel abroad. I stand strongly with my constituents and the American people to condemn the behavior of President Trump and his attacks on the very diversity that makes America, the Beautiful. Our concerns as a community are shared nationally as demonstrated through ongoing rallies and public outcry. This so called 'extreme vetting' clearly needs to be vetted itself; we must demand immediate answers and accountability from those who put this unconstitutional and un-American policy in place."
01.17.2017	Today, Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman announced that she will host an interfaith unity & reflection vigil on Friday, January 20 in lieu of her attendance at the Presidential inauguration ceremonies. “The constituents of the New Jersey’s Twelfth District are a cross section of the many groups and millions of Americans that this incoming Administration has turned its back on. Our nation is founded on democracy and inclusion that unfortunately our president-elect refuses to represent. I can think of no more important place to be than supporting my constituents and renewing my energy to fight for their freedoms,” said Watson Coleman. The interfaith unity and reflection vigil will take place at Shiloh Baptist Church in Trenton, NJ and is open to the public. Watson Coleman will be joined by faith leaders, community activists and residents of the surrounding communities. Watson Coleman made this announcement while participating in ‘United Communities’, a Town Hall hosted by the Islamic Society of Central Jersey. Watson Coleman was joined on the panel by members of the state legislature and the South Brunswick Chief of Police. "This is not a decision I take lightly. The peaceful transition of power is a defining characteristic of our democracy. Inaugurations should serve as a celebration of the best of our nation-- a symbol of unity and strength. Unfortunately, it is increasingly clear that President-elect Trump is not just unfit for office, but his actions and promises threaten the very democracy for which we are supposed to gather to celebrate. I simply cannot in good conscious participate." On Saturday, January 21, Watson Coleman will participate in the Women’s March on New Jersey in Trenton. ###
11.18.2016	Washington, D.C. (November 18, 2016) – Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement after it was reported that President-elect Trump plans to nominate Senator Jeff Sessions as the next Attorney General of the United States: “I wish I could spend this transition period working with President-elect Trump on ways to solve our nation’s most pressing issues. However, every day, Americans are waking up to new revelations that give us greater pause about a Trump presidency – plummeting confidence that Mr. Trump is prepared to truly bring about the positive change that he touted. The latest example is the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions to become United States Attorney General. Jeff Sessions’ well-documented and unrefuted record of bigotry and racism disqualified his nomination to a federal judgeship in the 1980s by a GOP-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee. I am appalled that President-elect Trump can look at that same history and still find Mr. Sessions qualified to be the top law enforcement official in the nation. “Mr. Sessions’ history of racially charged remarks, and his record in the U.S. Senate of trying to undermine federal protections for vulnerable Americans make him ill-suited for Attorney General. A Trump-Sessions Department of Justice would be not only an attack on our civil rights and equality, it would also be an insult to the intelligence of the American people. We all should recognize that a man who only disavowed the Ku Klux Klan because some of them smoked marijuana is unfit to serve our nation at the most consequential levels. I strongly urge President-elect Trump to withdraw this nomination, and if not withdrawn, I call on the Senate to reject this nominee. “It is clear through whom he has surrounded himself with, and the reported disarray of his transition team, that President-elect Trump is dead-set on carrying out his reckless campaign promises. Some people may be fatigued by the deluge of problematic decisions by Mr. Trump, but we cannot let that fatigue distract us from the fact that Mr. Trump is quickly proving not only to be just as unprepared to serve as President as we feared, but even more committed to rolling back the progress that we’ve made over the past 8 years. Americans of good will must not sit idly by as Donald Trump tries to overwhelm us into tacit submission to his dangerous agenda.” ###
11.16.2016	For Immediate Release: Washington, D.C. (November 15, 2016) – Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement after President-elect Trump announced the appointment of Breitbart News executive chairman Steve Bannon as his chief strategist: “The appointment of self-described leader of the “alt-right” Stephen K. Bannon as President Elect Donald Trump’s new strategist cancels out the President Elect’s suggestion that he wants to be a President for all of America. “As Chairman of Breitbart Media, Mr. Bannon created a platform for such intense racist, anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic, anti-Muslim rhetoric that has been rejected by even most conservative news outlets. Mr. Trump’s disgraceful appointment of Stephen Bannon as senior strategist suggests that we will continue to see the same racist and divisive rhetoric that ripped this country apart during one of America’s ugliest political contests in history. “Governing is not bullying others to get what you want. Governing is not continually dividing our nation with hateful rhetoric and actions. Governing requires the pursuit of unity and consensus—goals that are antithetical to Mr. Bannon’s record. The appointment of this provocateur of hate as a leader in your White House is an immediate direct affront to religious and racial minorities, women, and generally Americans of good will at a time when consensus is desperately needed. “Mr. Bannon’s record is disqualifying for serving in a White House that seeks to serve all Americans. That is why I strongly encourage President-elect Trump to rescind Mr. Bannon’s appointment from this position.”
09.09.2016	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (September 9, 2016) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) sent a letter to Dave Archembault II, Chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, expressing her support for their efforts to prevent the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) from crossing into and desecrating tribal land. “This pipeline presents a major threat to the local environment, and a tremendous infringement on ancestral land rights for the Standing Rock Sioux community,” Watson Coleman wrote. “The federal government has a duty to protect all Americans, especially the most vulnerable and marginalized. Instead, it appears that in the case of DAPL, the Army Corps of Engineers has set aside the serious health, safety, and cultural objections of the Standing Rock Sioux and failed to provide adequate opportunity for them to weigh in. “This pattern of action approvals is all too common in our nation. In my own community, residents have been vocal in their opposition to several proposed energy infrastructure projects that also pose significant threat or both environment and land rights, including the PennEast natural gas pipeline and a Williams Transco compressor station. Similar to the case of the Standing Rock Sioux and their supporters, residents in my community regularly express frustration that federal regulators consistently fail to consider the concerns of surrounding communities in favor of rubber stamping approvals on these projects.” To see the full letter, click here.
08.29.2016	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (August 26, 2016) — On Thursday August 25, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman opened her Ewing, NJ office to Veterans and families seeking one-on-one assistance with VA claims, in partnership with the Veterans Administration Newark Regional Benefits Office. VA representatives were on hand to assist with benefits and compensation questions, filing disability claims, or submitting evidence in support of a new or existing claim. In all, 16 veterans took advantage of the clinic. “Veterans have made countless sacrifices to serve our nation. It’s the least we can do, and one of my most important duties as a Member of Congress, to serve them in return, ensuring that they get the help, support, and benefits that they have earned,” said Congresswoman Watson Coleman. “I’m thrilled with the outcome of the clinic, and grateful for the assistance of the Newark Regional Benefits office. I look forward to bringing this level of individualized assistance to more veterans across the 12th District.” Congresswoman Watson Coleman will host two additional events for veterans in the near future: an additional claims clinic at the Monroe Senior Center on September 7th, and a Veterans Town Hall in East Brunswick on October 18th. Additional details will be announced as they become available.
07.20.2016	For Immediate Release: Ewing, New Jersey (July 20, 2016) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the passing of Hawaii Congressman Mark Takai (HI-01): “I am deeply saddened to learn that my fellow Freshman and progressive, Congressman Mark Takai has passed away after a courageous battle with cancer. As a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom, over the course of 20 years in Hawaii’s State House, and as a Member of the House of Representatives, Congressman Takai served his community and this nation, hard-working Americans in Hawaii and beyond. “I pray for comfort and peace for Congressman Takai’s family and friends at this difficult time, and I hope that they find solace in his tremendous legacy of service, and the brave and public profile he lent to a diagnosis that claims far too many lives. We’ve lost a tremendous leader, and we’ve lost him much too soon.”
06.29.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Ewing, NJ (June 29, 2016) -- At Baldpate Mountain, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced new legislation that would reform the gas pipeline approval process undertaken by the Federal Energy Regulatory Committee (FERC) in order to ensure a comprehensive analysis that considers the cumulative impact of gas pipeline projects and better assesses need for new pipelines. The Safe and Accountable Federal Energy Review — or SAFER — Pipelines Act of 2016 would require FERC to take the following steps when considering a pipeline application: Undertake an evidentiary hearing or cumulative review of planned energy infrastructure projects in the region, reviewing their necessity and impact relative to one another as they actually operate, not as standalone projects; Analyze the cumulative environmental impact of the proposed pipeline in combination with existing gas pipelines and; Monitor approved projects for five years to ensure agreed upon environmental mitigation steps have been fully implemented. "The process that FERC uses to approve pipelines is inherently flawed, and genuinely threatens our environment, green spaces and water resources, and public and private lands, doing so without ever proving that these pipelines are necessary," Watson Coleman said. "The SAFER Pipelines Act would make critical changes to how FERC considers pipeline proposals by creating a comprehensive framework that considers the cumulative impacts of pipelines, and ensures they are truly necessary before approving them. Whether it's PennEast here in New Jersey, or a proposed pipeline across the country, FERC should only approve applications that are necessary and serve the public good as their first priority." To see the bill, which will be introduced when Congress returns from the July 4th holiday, click here. For a fact sheet,
06.27.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 27, 2016) — Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after the Supreme Court’s decision on Whole Women’s Health v. Hellerstedt. The court struck down HB 2 — the Texas law at issue — in a 5-3 decision. “Today, the Supreme Court has powerfully reaffirmed a woman’s constitutional right to make her own decisions about her health, family, and future, no matter her zip code. The Justices confirmed what we already knew — the Texas law, and others like it, are not about protecting women — they’re about trying to ban abortion while undermining a woman’s dignity and ability to determine her own future. “The Court’s decision will help to stem the public health crisis in Texas by allowing remaining clinics to keep their doors open. Furthermore, it paves the way for new clinics to open and meet the needs of the millions of women in underserved areas of Texas. This case has brought into focus just how critical the November election is for protecting the basic constitutional rights of American women — who make up half our nation’s population. “Take note that this is not the end. We will continue the fight to protect and expand reproductive freedom for all by supporting legislation which respects our rights, elected officials who fight to preserve these rights, and candidates who understand the importance of appointing judges who respect our rights.” ###
06.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 16, 2016) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 5471, an empty gesture crafted by Republicans following Sunday’s mass shooting in Orlando that repackages three bills already passed by the House and pending in the Senate, further illustrating their inability to act. “Despite its proposal as a response to the tragedy in Orlando, H.R. 5471 would have done nothing to prevent that shooting. Even worse, it ignores threats from homegrown, domestic terrorists like the shooter who killed nine people at Mother Emanuel in Charleston, or the anti-abortion extremist who killed three in Colorado. “Polishing up old bills, writing existing Administration policies into law, further stigmatizing Muslims, and presenting that to the American people as an answer to their concerns is a deceitful charade that ignores the full range of terrorist threats to our homeland. Despite the Republican rhetoric used on the floor today to suggest otherwise, this bill doesn’t offer a single a solution. Every American deserves better.”
06.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 7, 2016) ― On Friday June 10, the Office of Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) will partner with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to host a Claims Clinic for veterans, dependents, and survivors residing in New Jersey’s 12th District, giving attendees direct access to VA representatives who can assist them with benefits questions, filing a disability claim, and more. “Helping my constituents get the services they need from the federal government is one of my most important duties as a Member of Congress, and I take that responsibility very seriously,” said Watson Coleman. “Bringing the VA Newark Regional Benefits Office directly to my district will offer access that most don’t normally get to those that deserve the very best care – our veterans and their families.” At the Clinic, 12th District residents can: Get information about VA benefits and entitlements; Submit a claim for benefits; Submit evidence in support of a new or existing claim; Receive information on the status of a pending VA claim; Or speak to a claims processor or rating specialist. For additional information about the clinic, contact Jennifer Myers at (973) 297-338, or via email atJennifer.myers6@va.gov. What: Watson Coleman Hosts VA Claims Clinic with the VA Newark Regional Benefits Office When: Friday, June 10, 2016 from 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM Where: Monroe Township Senior Center 12 Halsey Reed Road Monroe Township, NJ 08831
04.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington DC (April 13, 2016) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the Atlantic City, NJ fiscal crisis and proposals for state intervention: “Atlantic City requires a swift but thoughtful response to rectify their dire fiscal crisis. Although action is needed, I have serious reservations about the proposal before the State Senate, including concern that this legislation would provide unprecedented authority to Governor Christie to shred existing contracts, undermine collective bargaining rights, and disenfranchise Atlantic City residents. Furthermore, while this proposal has been introduced in the context of Atlantic City’s problems, the takeover mechanisms in this bill threaten workers’ rights and local democracy across the entire state—including municipalities in my Congressional district. Language this broad should give us all pause. “As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I questioned Michigan Governor Rick Snyder over his state’s admitted failure, poisoning thousands of Flint children with tainted water. We learned from Flint that one-sided, poorly-considered state takeover initiatives can have permanent negative consequences, and allow the same state officials who took control to shirk accountability when things go wrong. That is why Atlantic City needs a strong but measured approach that promotes sustainable solutions. “I am reluctant to support giving any Governor this kind of carte blanche authority, but based on his long history of efforts to decimate unions and undercut public sector employees, I am especially reticent about offering it to Governor Christie. The people of Atlantic City deserve better than an anti-democratic power grab at their most vulnerable hour, and its workers deserve more than a plan that forces public sector employees and unions to shoulder the brunt of austerity measures when they did not create the problem in the first place.”
04.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington DC (April 12, 2016) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) joined a bipartisan group of 110 Members of the House of Representatives writing to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to support the members of the U.S. Women’s National Team in their filing of a federal complaint. Recently, five soccer players accused the U.S. Soccer Federation of wage discrimination, citing the fact that they earn as little as 40 percent of what players on the U.S. Men’s National Team earn. “Now more than ever, women are single heads of household and primary breadwinners for their families. By continuing to pay them less than their male counterparts, we limit how they support those families, and we reduce their significant potential as consumers in our economy,” said Watson Coleman. “On average, women make 79 cents for every dollar that a man earns ― and that gap widens even more for women of color. Whether they’re on the soccer field, in a boardroom, or anywhere else women deserve equal pay. This team earned the title of world champion, and just like any other elite athlete they’ve earned the compensation to go along with that title.” The U.S. Women’s National Team is world renowned. Last year, the team produced nearly $20 million in revenues and secured a World Cup victory. In the process, the team broke television rating records, delivering 25.4 million viewers in the final match alone, as compared to the men's record of 18.2 million in 2014. The facts make it clear that any argument that the wage discrimination is based on anything other than gender discrimination has no basis. The full letter is available here.
04.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (April 12, 2016) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement denouncing any form of discrimination and urging greater sensitivity to anti-Semitism after reports that Princeton High School students engaged in an anti-Semitic drinking game: “It is unacceptable to make light of discrimination, violence, and genocide that devastated families and left scars that endure to this day. In addition to concerns about the dangers of underage drinking and binge drinking, I am disappointed with the anti-Semitic overtones displayed by the young people who took part in this activity. “These students made poor choices, however I am grateful for the teaching moment that now exists. While some may explain their actions as a harmless game or prank, activities like these allow hate to fester. Whether that hate is based on gender, race, sexual orientation or identity, religion or ethnicity, we must shine a light wherever we see it ­­– like Jamaica Ponder bravely did when she exposed her peers’ behavior. With the help of their parents and community members I am confident these students will learn from their mistakes, and I am happy to lend my support in whatever way necessary to support and guide our children.” Rep. Watson Coleman is a member of the Bipartisan Taskforce on Anti-Semitism, a group of Members of the House of Representatives dedicated to ensuring that Congress develops and implements policies that condemn anti-Semitism and promote tolerance around the world through education for Members of Congress, engagement with the Executive branch and foreign leaders, and cooperation with civil society organizations.
04.05.2016	For Immediate Release: Trenton, NJ (April 4, 2016) ― Today at a press conference in Trenton, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced two bills aimed at addressing the enduring long-term unemployment crisis. The first, the Expanding Penalty Free Withdrawal Act, would prevent those who fit the definition of long-term unemployment from having to pay excessive fees for tapping their retirement accounts to keep themselves financially stable. The content of the Expanding Penalty Free Withdrawal Act was included in the President’s 2016 Budget proposal. The second, the Investing in Older Workers Act would create a work opportunity tax credit for employers, incentivizing the hiring of older Americans who fall into the long-term unemployment category to help those individuals find jobs. “Despite what the monthly jobs report says, there are many American families for whom the economy has not improved,” said Watson Coleman. “Americans who find themselves stuck in long term unemployment are doing their best to find work, but employers won’t give them the consideration they deserve. Meanwhile, being jobless puts them in dire financial straits. We’ve got to do whatever we can to help them stay afloat, and give them the chance to find jobs.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) New Jersey has the third highest percentage of long-term unemployed in the nation, with long-term unemployed making up more than 41 percent of the total unemployed population. The BLS defines long-term unemployment as individuals in the job market who have been jobless for 27 weeks or longer. “I would like to thank Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman for introducing these bills to assist the long-term unemployed in our country,” said Cliff Biroc, a victim of long-term unemployment. “With a family of five to support, I have gone through all of my savings, my brokerage account, and have dipped into my IRA on two occasions. Trying to maintain one’s sanity and keeping motivated is very difficult in this situation.” “Mercer County’s One-Stop Career Center provides a vital service by offering career guidance and job training, and by connecting employers with well-prepared job seekers,” said Mercer County Executive Brian Hughes. “In addition to the work of the Congresswoman, these types of programs are necessary to help individuals who face the long-term unemployment that plagues our state.” "As New Jersey's largest HUD certified housing counseling agency, we saw the devastating role that long-term unemployment played in the foreclosure crisis after the financial crash,” said Beverly Brown Ruggia of New Jersey Citizen Action. “Although programs like Homekeeper provided temporary relief for many older homeowners out of work, getting them back to work is the best way to help them keep their homes." "New Jersey working families are in dire need of support and the proposals put forth by Congresswoman Watson Coleman are the right approach to both incentivize growth and allow families the room to manage unemployment,” said Analilia Mejia of New Jersey Working Families. “Workers should not continue to be penalized in their hour of need and tax incentives connected to real job creation is a smart policy that can lead to job creation and growth." On April 15, Watson Coleman will speak at Princeton University’s Policy Forum on Long-Term Unemployment. To see the bills, click here and here.
02.02.2016	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (February 2, 2016) ― Today, the House Homeland Security Committee passed H.R. 4398, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Acquisition Documentation Integrity Act of 2016, legislation authored by Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) that amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary, through DHS component heads, to maintain “complete, accurate, timely, and valid” documentation for each of the Department’s major acquisition programs ― programs with life-cycle cost estimates in excess of $300 million. Under this bill, DHS would, at minimum, maintain: Operational requirements that are validated consistent with Departmental policy and changes to those requirements, as appropriate; A complete life cycle cost estimate with supporting documentation; Verification of the life cycle cost estimate against independent cost estimates, and reconciliation of any differences; A cost-benefit analysis with supporting documentation; and A schedule including, as appropriate, an integrated master schedule. Further, H.R. 4398 would ensure that DHS follows best practices identified by the Government Accountability Office for cost estimates and schedules for its acquisition programs. The legislation also includes provisions intended to prevent lapses in documentation to Congress on the status of major acquisition programs, a deficiency identified at an April, 2015 hearing at which it was revealed that 25 of the 72 programs had been granted waivers from requirements to produce or update critical acquisition-related documentation. “In fiscal year 2015, the Department planned to spend roughly $11 billion on major acquisition programs ― a number that represents roughly one-sixth of the Department’s total budget. At the same time, a 2015 review of 22 major DHS acquisitions programs by the Comptroller General found that 14 had suffered cost or schedule overruns, and that three-quarters of the remaining programs lacked valid documentation against which to assess their performance,” said Watson Coleman. “Anything less than complete, accurate, and up-to-date acquisition documentation increases the risk of cost and schedule overruns, delays in the delivery of capabilities needed by the Department to perform critical missions, and causes a depletion of resources needed to address future requirements. This bill takes vital steps to address existing deficiencies and prevent future issues.” H.R. 4398 now awaits approval by the full House. Click here to see the full text of the bill. Click here for a section by section analysis.
01.05.2016	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (January 5, 2016) ― Today Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) applauded the President’s announcement of plans to take executive action to help reduce gun violence in America. “As the Republican Congress continues to ignore and avoid even the most commonsense solutions to the epidemic of gun violence in our nation, I commend President Obama for showing true leadership, and taking action. The steps he announced today will save countless innocent lives and make our nation safer, without infringing upon the constitutional right to own firearms,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “From strengthening background checks and bolstering enforcement to improving mental health services and research on gun safety, the President’s executive actions are vital steps toward solving one of our nation’s greatest crises.” “While the President has done what he can, the most effective measures to address gun violence can only be achieved with Congressional action. We should start with the bipartisan King-Thompson bill to strengthen background checks and close dangerous loopholes, so that criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have easy access to guns. But we also need to explore every avenue to ensure guns don’t end up in the wrong hands, considering bills like my Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act that would take the basic step of requiring a photo ID to buy bullets. President Obama has given us a running start. It’s up to Congress to finish the job.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: Toughening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. The President’s executive actions come after the Republican Congress has repeatedly refused to allow votes on commonsense, bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation – including acting on seven separate occasions to block a vote on a Republican Congressman’s legislation to close the outrageous terror gun loophole that allows suspected terrorists to buy deadly weapons across America. In March 2015, a bipartisan coalition of U.S. House Members introduced H.R. 1217, the King-Thompson bill to strengthen background checks nationwide. The legislation, authored by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY), expands the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads while providing reasonable exceptions for family and friend transfers. Under the legislation, the current background check system would be expanded to require comprehensive, enforceable and life-saving background checks on all commercial gun sales. Studies show that every day where background checks are used, the system stops more than 170 felons, some 50 domestic abusers, and nearly 20 fugitives from buying a gun. However, no system is in place to prevent these same prohibited purchasers from buying identical guns at a gun show, over the internet, or through a newspaper ad with no questions asked – because background checks are not required for these kinds of sales. The King-Thompson bill closes these outrageous, dangerous loopholes. “As President Obama said today, we need to act with the fierce urgency of now. There is no duty more sacred for a Member of Congress than to protect and defend the American people. The best way we can honor the victims and survivors of gun violence is to prevent further tragedies.” ###
12.17.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (December 17, 2015) — Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) voted against a Republican tax extender package projected to increase the federal deficit by $622 billion over the next ten years by making a host of tax cuts permanent without any viable plan to cover the cost of those cuts. Watson Coleman issued the following statement on the bill, which will now move to the Senate: “I am dumbfounded by the capacity of Republicans in this Congress to pay lip service to the need to find solid fiscal footing, and then hand over a silver platter of unfunded tax breaks to corporations and special interests. What’s more, I’m disgusted by their willingness to line the pockets of big business while refusing to support an ailing middle class and countless struggling Americans. “While they are vital to so many families and policies that I vehemently support, even the inclusion of the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Care Tax Credit doesn’t make up for the destruction this bill will cause down the line. The GOP majority seems determined to widen the gap between average American workers and CEOs making millions; this goes against everything our nation has ever stood for. This irresponsible legislation is just another example of their willingness to prop up the highest earners on the backs of the hardest workers.” The package considered by the House today will make 22 different tax provisions permanent, extend four provisions over a five-year period, and extend several more until 2017. In the process, the bill risks undermining government revenue and places discretionary spending on programs that help build and repair infrastructure, strengthen national security, and support working families at greater risk. 60 percent of the tax cuts in the bill will support large companies, resulting in a handout of nearly $350 billion. House Democrats, including Watson Coleman, have consistently called for the consideration of permanent business tax provisions in the context of broader tax reform, offsetting their costs by closing special-interest tax loopholes.
11.12.2015	For Immediate Release: Ewing, NJ (November 11, 2015) ― During remarks at Mercer County Community College’s Veterans Day Program today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced new legislation aimed at improving veterans’ access to health care and simultaneously addressing the closure of medical centers in underserved areas. The Veterans Affairs Public-Private Leasing Partnership Study Act of 2015 would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to study the feasibility of entering into public-private partnership agreements with underused medical facilities, particularly in urban and rural areas, allowing veterans to receive care without needing to travel long distances to VA hospital facilities. In the process, hospitals struggling to stay open would have more patients to serve, increasing economic activity in those communities. “This legislation would offer a combined solution to two major challenges – improving access to care for veterans, and keeping hospitals open in communities struggling economically,” said Watson Coleman. “Veterans frequently travel long distances, and over state lines, to get care. Some of them rely on public transportation, but are required to get to VA facilities only accessible by car. If there are ways to offer the same or better treatment and care for our veterans closer to their homes, while also keeping our hospitals open, we can’t afford not to take advantage of it.” Hospital closures have become a significant problem nationwide. According to the University of North Carolina Sheps Center for Health Services Research, 58 rural hospitals have closed across the country since 2010. Similar trends, with different causes, have been seen in urban hospitals. In New Jersey alone, 18 hospitals have either closed or filed for bankruptcy over the past ten years, most of them located in urban centers or suburban areas. The VA Public-Private Leasing Partnership Study Act of 2015 would give the VA 180 days to study the usefulness and potential impact of partnerships with struggling hospitals, determining if such partnerships would broaden access to veterans. Further, the bill would require the VA to: Assess veterans’ current access to Veterans Health Administration facilities in densely populated and rural communities, and issues hindering access; Assess the feasibility of entering leasing agreements with non-Department facilities and; Evaluate the impact of Congressional approval on leases, including the potential for delayed access. Original cosponsors of the bill currently include Rep. Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10), and Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI).
11.06.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, New Jersey (November 6, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after the Administration announced it would deny the permit for construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “President Obama’s decision to support clean energy by denying the permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline is exactly the kind of leadership our nation needs. There is no guarantee that the oil pumped through this pipeline would have stayed here in the U.S., nor do we have assurances that the Keystone project would have paid into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. Construction of this pipeline was riddled with pitfalls from the start, with potential benefits few and far between. “Our nation must lead the world on clean, renewable energy, and that means shifting our focus away from projects that endanger our environment and public lands like Keystone or PennEast. We need 21st century power that ensures a vibrant economy and a sustainable environment for future generations.” In one of her first major votes in the House, Watson Coleman voted against approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline alongside 153 other Democrats. That measure, which authorized construction of the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline from northwest Canada to Gulf Coast refineries and exempted the pipeline from all federal permitting requirements, creating a special exemption for one project from requirements that apply to all other construction projects, passed the House 266-153. According to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, tar sands crude produces up to 40% more carbon pollution than conventional oil, and can only be extracted through dirty, destructive methods that severely harm the air, water, and environment.
11.04.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (November 4, 2015) ― Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announced the appointment of six Democratic Members of Congress to the Republican’s Select Committee to Attack Women’s Health, including Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12). “This Committee is an affront to the hardworking American families who elected us to fight for policies that would move our nation forward ― things like wages that would help them make ends meet or an economy that works for everyone, not a taxpayer-funded inquisition into women’s health,” said Watson Coleman. “I had hoped that with a new Speaker and a so-called fresh start, Republicans would let go of their assault on women’s rights. But as long as their fight to take away vital preventive care and family planning services continues, I’ll be ready to expose the facts and bring the truth to light.” “Even in her short time in Congress, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman has already proven herself a ferocious champion for women and families,” said Leader Pelosi. “Drawing on her own trailblazing leadership in New Jersey, Watson Coleman has been a powerful voice in the Congress for women’s health and women’s opportunities. Her commitment to families and to facts will be invaluable as Democrats stand up for the truth against Republicans’ Select Committee to Attack Women’s Health.” Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky of Illinois will serve as the Select Committee’s Ranking Member. Congressman Jerrold Nadler of New York, Congresswoman Diana DeGette of Colorado, Congresswoman Jackie Speier of California, and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene of Washington will also serve on the Committee.
11.02.2015	For Immediate Release Washington DC (November 2, 2015) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) praised Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) for introducing the Senate version of the Healthy Maternal and Obstetric Medicine (MOM) Act, legislation originally authored by Watson Coleman that would create a special enrollment period allowing pregnant individuals to enroll in, or make a change to, their health insurance coverage. “Expecting mothers deserve the ability to offer their babies the best chance at a healthy start, but without insurance, that’s extremely difficult for most mothers to do,” Watson Coleman said. “I’m thrilled to see Senate action on this simple vital, step to support our nation’s women, and I thank Senator Brown for his work on this issue. Pregnancy is filled with challenges and surprises ― wondering if and how to pay for the cost of care shouldn’t be one of them.” Currently, individuals who become pregnant outside of the Health Insurance Marketplace’s open enrollment period, which began on Nov. 1, cannot change an existing plan or enroll in new coverage. Expecting mothers left in this loophole may face significant out of pocket costs for prenatal care, or be forced to forgo prenatal care altogether. The Healthy MOM Act would give pregnancy the status of other “qualifying life events,” like getting married, giving birth, or adopting a child, that trigger Special Enrollment Periods (SEP) for health insurance beyond standard open enrollment. According to the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), more than one million babies are born to mothers that did not receive adequate prenatal care each year. Nationwide, maternal mortality rates are three to four times higher for mothers who do not receive prenatal care compared with mothers who do, and babies of mothers who do not receive prenatal care are five times more likely to die and three times as likely to be born prematurely compared with mothers who receive adequate care. Brown introduced his legislation with 22 Senate cosponsors. 97 Members of the House have cosponsored Watson Coleman’s bill. For the full text of the House bill, click here. For the full text of the Senate companion, click here.
10.28.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (OCTOBER 28, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after Richland County, South Carolina officials announced the termination of Deputy Ben Fields’ employment following videos of a violent interaction between Fields and a student at Spring Valley High School in South Carolina: “I could barely watch the video of the young girl being attacked by Deputy Ben Fields in her own classroom. The actions of Deputy Fields are reprehensible, outrageous, and unfortunately indicative of the systemic problems in law enforcement. Watching a man in uniform body slam a child, in a classroom, as her peers watch, is one of the most disgusting things I have ever seen. Much of the media commentary has been no better. We should not have to ask whether the student provoked the officer, because there are no circumstances in which his actions are acceptable. “Richland County officials have recently announced Deputy Field’s termination, and I believe that they made the right decision. He must also be held accountable through the legal process, and I am confident that the FBI and Justice Department will thoroughly investigate this case. But the discussion about appropriate use of force by law enforcement , especially when it comes to children, needs to continue. We’ve seen countless videos of violent interactions between young people and police in situations that appear entirely avoidable – at pool parties, in public parks, and in schools. We need an honest and earnest discussion, and we need action that leads to positive changes in law enforcement.” ###
10.01.2015	For Immediate Release WATSON COLEMAN QUESTIONS CONTINUED INVESTIGATIONS OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD, BENGHAZI Washington, DC (October 1, 2015) ― Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement today after comments from Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (UT-3) indicated no viable reason to continue an investigation of Planned Parenthood, or the existence of the Select Committee on Benghazi: “Majority Leader McCarthy and Chairman Chaffetz have now publicly confirmed what we already knew: “investigations” of Planned Parenthood and Benghazi are politically motivated wastes of taxpayer dollars. Based on what we’ve heard over the past two days, there can be no doubt the creation of an additional committee to further probe Planned Parenthood’s perfectly legal and vital health activities will result in absolutely zero legitimate oversight. Further, proceeding with the Benghazi Committee after acknowledging it’s true purpose discredits the reputation and history of this body. With the truth exposed, I hope that the Majority can let go of their dysfunction, and get to work on the priorities of the American people.” In an exchange Wednesday evening on CNN’s the Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer, Chairman Chaffetz was asked if there was any evidence that Planned Parenthood had broken “any law,” and responded, “No, I’m not suggesting that they broke the law.” On Tuesday evening, Majority Leader McCarthy indicated that the purpose of the Select Committee on Benghazi was to inflict damage to Hillary Clinton’s Presidential campaign. Watson Coleman is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
08.27.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (August 27, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced her support for the P5+1 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent a nuclear armed Iran: “Since the release of the text, I have carefully considered the details of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action between the P5+1 countries and Iran. I have attended numerous classified briefings with Administration officials, met with constituents on both sides of the issue, and consulted with nuclear and foreign policy experts. After extensive consideration, I have concluded that supporting this agreement offers the most viable option available to us to prevent Iran from manufacturing nuclear weapons. “As a member of Congress, no issue ranks higher than protecting our national security. It’s clear to me that a nuclear-armed Iran would pose an unacceptable threat to the United States and to our closest ally in the region, Israel. As such, I have never wavered in my opposition to any deal that lacks the strength to prevent Iran’s development of nuclear weapons. I have long said that in order to garner my support, any final agreement must sufficiently weaken Iran’s nuclear infrastructure such that it cannot develop a weapon, and have an inspection and sanctions regime that ensures any violation of the deal’s terms will be detected and punished. This agreement meets that first, critical standard. “This deal is based on verification — not trust. The Iranian government is a brutal regime that violates human rights, supports terrorism across the globe, and has a record of attempting to deceive the international community. We cannot simply have faith that Iran has suddenly decided to comply with the promises it makes to the world. However, thanks to the work of Secretary Kerry and our negotiating team, Iran will be subjected to the most intrusive inspection regime ever negotiated. Further the deal’s snapback provisions mean that if we determine Iran has broken the agreement, sanctions will be promptly re-imposed. “While this agreement is not perfect, rejecting it would create far greater risks than accepting it. If we turn down this opportunity for broad and intrusive supervision of Iran, we would irreversibly undermine the international coalition that has worked for years to prevent it from obtaining nuclear arms and, in turn, risk strengthening Iranian hardliners who have resisted any negotiation. Opponents argue that if we reject this deal, we can return to the table to negotiate a better one. Our European allies have made clear that that is not likely, and I cannot gamble our national security on the mere hope that more time will bring about a different result. Additionally, opponents of the deal have been unable to clearly articulate what a better alternative would contain. Without this deal, the most immediately accessible alternative is military conflict. I am committed to finding peaceful solutions to our international problems, and I firmly believe that further military involvement in the Middle East should be our last resort. I will continue to work to avoid war. “Without this agreement, we would find ourselves back at the status quo — a status quo where Iran is months away from the fissile material necessary for a bomb. A status quo without sufficient inspections to monitor Iran’s behavior. A status quo that keeps Iran beyond the reach of the international structures the rest of the world uses to hold one another accountable. Adopting the agreement will improve the position of the United States by providing unprecedented access to Iran’s nuclear supply chain, ensuring we have the knowledge necessary to determine Iran’s compliance with its commitments. This agreement is not an end – it is a critical beginning to a long process of holding Iran accountable, with more tools to do so than we have ever had before. “Having recently returned from Israel, I understand the concerns many have about Iran’s threat to our most important ally in the region. I recognize that some disagree with my assessment that this deal offers the best option for protecting both our security and Israel’s, which are inextricably connected. As this deal is implemented, we must reaffirm our commitment to Israel and continue to enforce the sanctions we’ve placed on Iran for its human rights abuses and support of terrorism. Nothing in this deal prevents the United States from taking all steps necessary to prevent Iran’s further destabilization of the region, nor does it impede our efforts to protect our allies. Negotiations on this agreement have always centered solely on blocking Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon. In my review, this deal does just that that. I will support it, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.”
08.27.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (August 27, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced her support for the P5+1 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent a nuclear armed Iran: “Since the release of the text, I have carefully considered the details of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action between the P5+1 countries and Iran. I have attended numerous classified briefings with Administration officials, met with constituents on both sides of the issue, and consulted with nuclear and foreign policy experts. After extensive consideration, I have concluded that supporting this agreement offers the most viable option available to us to prevent Iran from manufacturing nuclear weapons. “As a member of Congress, no issue ranks higher than protecting our national security. It’s clear to me that a nuclear-armed Iran would pose an unacceptable threat to the United States and to our closest ally in the region, Israel. As such, I have never wavered in my opposition to any deal that lacks the strength to prevent Iran’s development of nuclear weapons. I have long said that in order to garner my support, any final agreement must sufficiently weaken Iran’s nuclear infrastructure such that it cannot develop a weapon, and have an inspection and sanctions regime that ensures any violation of the deal’s terms will be detected and punished. This agreement meets that first, critical standard. “This deal is based on verification — not trust. The Iranian government is a brutal regime that violates human rights, supports terrorism across the globe, and has a record of attempting to deceive the international community. We cannot simply have faith that Iran has suddenly decided to comply with the promises it makes to the world. However, thanks to the work of Secretary Kerry and our negotiating team, Iran will be subjected to the most intrusive inspection regime ever negotiated. Further the deal’s snapback provisions mean that if we determine Iran has broken the agreement, sanctions will be promptly re-imposed. “While this agreement is not perfect, rejecting it would create far greater risks than accepting it. If we turn down this opportunity for broad and intrusive supervision of Iran, we would irreversibly undermine the international coalition that has worked for years to prevent it from obtaining nuclear arms and, in turn, risk strengthening Iranian hardliners who have resisted any negotiation. Opponents argue that if we reject this deal, we can return to the table to negotiate a better one. Our European allies have made clear that that is not likely, and I cannot gamble our national security on the mere hope that more time will bring about a different result. Additionally, opponents of the deal have been unable to clearly articulate what a better alternative would contain. Without this deal, the most immediately accessible alternative is military conflict. I am committed to finding peaceful solutions to our international problems, and I firmly believe that further military involvement in the Middle East should be our last resort. I will continue to work to avoid war. “Without this agreement, we would find ourselves back at the status quo — a status quo where Iran is months away from the fissile material necessary for a bomb. A status quo without sufficient inspections to monitor Iran’s behavior. A status quo that keeps Iran beyond the reach of the international structures the rest of the world uses to hold one another accountable. Adopting the agreement will improve the position of the United States by providing unprecedented access to Iran’s nuclear supply chain, ensuring we have the knowledge necessary to determine Iran’s compliance with its commitments. This agreement is not an end – it is a critical beginning to a long process of holding Iran accountable, with more tools to do so than we have ever had before. “Having recently returned from Israel, I understand the concerns many have about Iran’s threat to our most important ally in the region. I recognize that some disagree with my assessment that this deal offers the best option for protecting both our security and Israel’s, which are inextricably connected. As this deal is implemented, we must reaffirm our commitment to Israel and continue to enforce the sanctions we’ve placed on Iran for its human rights abuses and support of terrorism. Nothing in this deal prevents the United States from taking all steps necessary to prevent Iran’s further destabilization of the region, nor does it impede our efforts to protect our allies. Negotiations on this agreement have always centered solely on blocking Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon. In my review, this deal does just that that. I will support it, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.”
08.13.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (August 13, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the New Jersey Attorney General’s office continuing investigation into Friday’s shooting of Radazz Hearns by New Jersey State Troopers and a Mercer County Sheriff’s Officer: “It is tragic to see any young person injured by gunfire, so I am deeply relieved at reports that Radazz is in stable condition, and I pray for his speedy and full recovery. Moving forward, I am committed to uncovering the details of this shooting, and I look forward to facilitating conversations between law enforcement and our community to shed light on these events. “Public safety is my primary and imminent concern; the public must have full confidence in the investigatory agencies that are tasked with uncovering the truth. I have been in communication with Attorney General Hoffman, Sherriff Kemler and Mayor Jackson. While they each have committed to and desire a thorough and transparent investigation, the lack of information to the public has resulted in public faith quickly eroding, requiring swift action to regain the confidence of the community. As such, I have requested a federal investigation so that the public can have additional independent assurances that we will find the truth. Moving forward we need to seek ways to prevent cases like these, but also ensure that when they do occur, the community has a voice in the process. “Across the United States, a number of unexplained and unnecessary deaths precipitated by interactions with law enforcement over the past several months have shaken our nation's trust in police and the criminal justice system. When these cases are addressed swiftly with transparency and decisiveness, as in the Cincinnati shooting of Samuel DuBose, we restore faith in the process. When there is no communication, the public frequently feels misled and we see the kind of disruption and violence witnessed in Ferguson or Baltimore. By giving the public a vested interest in maintaining the legitimacy of investigations like this one, we can work together to guarantee that objective justice remains our goal.”
08.06.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (August 6, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act’s signing by President Lyndon B. Johnson on August 6, 1965: “The 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act is a sober and bittersweet reminder that much of the battle for the right to vote still remains before us. Unfortunately, Congress has thus far failed to reauthorize the critical protections the Voting Rights Act provided for millions of Americans. The right to vote is the bedrock of our democracy; policy makers should fight to expand, not roll back or otherwise diminish that right. “When the Voting Rights Act was signed into law, Dr. King called it, ‘a great step forward in removing all the remaining obstacles to the right to vote.’ We would honor the legacy of leaders like King and the countless others who fought for this landmark legislation by continuing to remove those barriers, and ensuring every voice is heard on election day.”
07.24.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (July 24, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman announced her cosponsorship of H.Res.130, a resolution condemning the rise of anti-Semitism in the European Union and encouraging greater cooperation in combating anti-Semitic trends: “With the alarming uptick in anti-Semitic violence and rhetoric seen recently in Europe, it’s critical that the U.S. use its position as a world leader to denounce such actions, and push every one of our allies to address these trends. This legislation is a part of that effort. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this resolution, and as a member of the Bipartisan Taskforce on Anti-Semitism I will continue to work to promote tolerance, universal liberties, and basic human rights around the world. H.Res.130 was introduced in the House by Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL-20), and has received endorsements from the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), the Jewish Federation of North America (JFNA), HIAS, and B’nai B’rith International. Its proposal comes at a time when recent studies have shown a growing trend of anti-Semitism in Europe, including an increasing number of individuals who deny the Holocaust. The bill currently has 75 cosponsors, and is a companion to S.Res.87, which the U.S. Senate passed unanimously on June 3, 2015. The Bipartisan Taskforce on Anti-Semitism is chaired by Reps. Chris Smith (NJ-04), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Kay Granger (TX-12), Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Ted Deutch (FL-21), and is dedicated to ensuring that Congress develops and implements policies that condemn anti-Semitism and promote tolerance around the world through education for Members of Congress, engagement with the Executive branch and foreign leaders, and cooperation with civil society organizations.
07.14.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (July 14, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after P5+1 negotiators reached consensus on a comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran: “I am encouraged by the administration’s efforts to use diplomacy to reach an agreement that has the potential to create a lasting peace and disarm one of the world’s most concerning actors. While this deal gives us a once-in-a-generation opportunity to transform the Middle East, we cannot consider it lightly, nor should we rush to approve it. I will not support any deal unless it lives up to the high standard necessary to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. “I firmly believe that we must use every tool at our disposal to promote and expand peace around the world, and I truly hope that this agreement becomes a remarkable example of what we can accomplish when we pursue diplomacy and abandon excessive aggression. I will closely analyze this agreement, and I am hopeful that my colleagues in Congress will set politics aside to do the same. The final outcome must make the world a safer place.”
06.25.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 25, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after the House passed legislation that included Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA): “I proudly opposed Fast Track authority each time it came before the House. Unfortunately, now that Fast Track has passed, it is my responsibility to ensure that American workers have the resources to overcome the consequences of bad trade deals. That’s why I voted in favor of a legislative package that extends TAA, along with key African and Haitian trade programs. This package fails to cover public employees displaced by the outsourcing of facilities like call centers, and falls short of the funding needed to support every person affected, but I simply cannot allow Congress to take up trade agreements without any level of protection in place for American workers. “I remain steadfast in my support of protecting jobs here at home, and I will do everything I can to ensure that when the Trans-Pacific Partnership is brought up for a vote it addresses gaps in human rights, currency manipulation, and American competitiveness among other important issues. I will not support any deal—TPP or otherwise—that shortchanges my constituents or American people.”
06.25.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 25, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its ruling in King v. Burwell: “The Supreme Court’s decision in this case is a win for families in New Jersey and across the country who now know that they’ll be able to keep their insurance plans and continue access affordable healthcare. “Conservatives have taken the Affordable Care Act to the Supreme Court twice, and both rulings have confirmed that it’s legal and constitutional. That doesn’t mean it’s perfect, and I’m one of many who have introduced legislation to improve it. It’s time to let go of partisan battles, and work together to provide the best quality care to every American family.”
06.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 23, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) announced the Healthy Maternity and Obstetric Medicine (Healthy MOM) Act, legislation that would create a special, 60-day enrollment window for pregnant women to enroll in or upgrade a health insurance plan provided through Healthcare.gov, the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) or her employer. The bill, which has 78 original cosponsors, has received endorsements from the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Young Invincibles, the March of Dimes, the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, and the National Patient Advocate Foundation. “Right now, events like the birth or adoption of a child, marriage, divorce, or even moving to a new state all trigger a special window allowing individuals to enroll in a new health insurance plan. Yet pregnancy, one of the most life altering events a woman may experience, isn’t included on that list,” said Watson Coleman. “Ensuring every American has access to affordable, quality healthcare should be a national priority. Unless we support expecting mothers, we’re not meeting our responsibilities for mothers or for the babies they will deliver.” According to a recent report from Young Invincibles, basic prenatal care and delivery average nearly $20,000 without insurance, even when there are no complications. The same report notes that women are three to four times more likely to die from pregnancy-related difficulties when they receive no prenatal care. These women are also more likely to have an infant die in the first month after birth. "Access to maternity coverage is critical to Millennials, who account for 83 percent of new moms, and can be least able to afford maternity care. And yet, there are still some health plans that do not cover full maternity care benefits, said Christina Postolowski, Program Manager for Young Invincibles. “The Healthy MOM Act will allow pregnant women to sign up for a health plan year-round that meets their needs. This can lead to better health outcomes for moms and newborns, saving hospitals and consumers money in the long run." "Planned Parenthood commends Congresswoman Watson Coleman for her leadership and efforts to make sure pregnant women can enroll in health insurance year-round," said Roslyn Rogers Collins, President/CEO of Planned Parenthood of Metro New Jersey “Women need to have health insurance when they are pregnant,” stated March of Dimes President Dr. Jennifer L. Howse. “It’s very difficult for women to obtain the prenatal care and other services necessary for a healthy pregnancy and baby without insurance. The March of Dimes is grateful to Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman and her colleagues for championing this important measure for maternal and child health.” For a fact sheet on the bill, click here.
06.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 23, 2015) ― Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1646, the Homeland Security Drone Assessment and Analysis Act, legislation introduced by Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Oversight and Management Efficiency Subcommittee. Rep. Watson Coleman is the third House Freshman Democrat to succeed in passing legislation on the House floor. “I introduced this bill with the understanding that drone technology holds great promise that has yet to be fully realized,” said Watson Coleman. “Truly harnessing these devices’ potential requires us to mitigate the risks associated with them. The Homeland Security Drone Assessment and Analysis Act does that, enhancing national security, and clarifying the framework for drone manufacturers and enthusiasts alike. The end result will be policies that allow us to build and use drones in a lawful and safe manner. I am pleased that the House has passed this critical and timely piece of legislation.” H.R. 1646 requires the Department of Homeland Security to: Research how commercially-available small and medium-sized drones could be used to perpetrate an attack; Take the lead as the Federal department responsible for developing policies, guidance, and protocols to prevent an attack perpetrated with a small or medium-sized drone; Disseminate information to State, local and tribal law enforcement officials regarding how to respond to potential threats from these drones, and; Conduct an assessment of the security threat associated with the commercial availability of drones. H.R. 1646 passed by voice vote.
06.18.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (June 18, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the tragic deaths of nine individuals at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC: “My heart is heavy this morning with the knowledge that nine people, who had gathered to worship and immerse themselves in God’s word, were viciously murdered last night in Charleston, within the walls of one of our nation’s most historic African American churches. “Senseless tragedies like this are impossible to understand, and the few details that have emerged thus far suggest that this shooting was of the most despicable variety imaginable. Events like these shake us to our cores. As a nation, we mourn these deaths and call for justice as one. “I pray for peace and solace for the victims’ families, and urge others to do the same. As scripture tells us, weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. We have found ourselves in the dark of the night, but morning shall come. ”
06.16.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 16, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after Democratic New Jersey state lawmakers introduced the “Democracy Act,” aimed at increasing voter turnout and providing additional opportunities to vote in the state: “I applaud my former colleagues for introducing this bill, and for their continued effort to place New Jersey ahead of the national curve. This is an issue that both the Black and Latino Caucuses have been focused on for some time. The basic changes called for in this legislation will ensure that even more New Jerseyans are able to participate in the democratic process, ensuring elected officials truly represent the voices of their constituents. “The right to vote is the foundation of our democracy, and as such it should be something that policy makers consistently fight to expand. Instead, that fundamental right ― a right for which many Americans had to fight ― has been constricted and reduced in recent years amid grossly exaggerated and frequently false allegations of voter fraud. That’s why I support federal changes like those found in the Automatic Voter Registration Act, to offer as many opportunities to engage in the election process as possible. “In a nation whose founding documents begin with ‘We the people of the United States,’ local, state, and federal government should champion the cause of ensuring every single American can make their voice heard with as little difficulty as possible. The Democracy Act is a model for the whole country to follow, and I urge my colleagues in Washington to pay close attention.”
06.12.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (June 12, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement in opposition to legislation that would provide for Trade Promotion Authority (TPA or fast-track authority) and Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement: “Free trade is a pillar of our economy and vital in my home state, but sweeping trade agreements like the one we’re negotiating right now have decimated American jobs. Congress has a duty to weigh in on these agreements to ensure that we protect families here at home while serving our nation’s economic interests. Fast-track authority eliminates an important safeguard for TPP, and all agreements that will follow it in the future ― a step too far, considering the tremendous negative impact these deals frequently have. “Trade Adjustment Assistance was developed to support families hurt by these agreements. Unfortunately, the TAA bill before us today falls short in many key areas, failing to cover public sector workers, reducing critical funding for job training, and cutting income support for workers displaced by trade. Even worse, it has been inextricably linked to TPA, and supporting one offers inherent support for the other. American workers can’t afford a TAA package that shortchanges them the way this bill would, which is why I can’t support it in its current form. “The House risks taking us further down a dangerous path today. I support free trade, but instead of an open dialogue about the rewards and risks that the TPP poses, the American people have only gotten snippets of the backroom discussions that have built the agreement. My constituents deserve better. We have an opportunity — and frankly, a responsibility — to go back to the drawing board and get this deal right.”
06.04.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (June 4, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after voting against the Lee-Sanford amendment to the FY 2016 Transportation Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which would allow air and sea travel between the United States and Cuba: “Normalizing relations with Cuba is an issue with significant civil rights, social justice, and national security implications, and many voices with valid opinions on either side. As such, it deserves a serious and dedicated debate that considers every angle ― from the ongoing mistreatment of Cuban citizens by the Castro regime, to the potential for trade and economic growth that would benefit both of our nations. “I cannot support a piecemeal approach to dealing with such a massive policy shift. An amendment to an appropriations bill gives us little opportunity to address important questions. I look forward to a more thorough discussion with my colleagues that solves the many outstanding issues of security, diplomacy and human rights that normal relations with Cuba would encompass. ”
05.26.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (May 24, 2015) — Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the passing of Princeton University mathematician John Forbes Nash Jr.: “I’m deeply saddened to hear that the Princeton community has lost such a brilliant, kind, and humble individual with the passing of in John Nash. While he was recognized around the world for his scholarship and groundbreaking work in mathematics ― work honored most recently with the distinguished Abel Prize ― Nash’s kindness, and humility were among his best known qualities here in New Jersey. “In his lifetime, Nash conquered mathematics in ways few could even imagine, all while battling mental illness that threatened to overshadow his incredible contributions. In his victories he leaves behind a legacy as a pioneer, hero and friend, and will be remembered by many. “I pray for comfort and solace for his family and loved ones during this difficult time.”
05.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (May 20, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman issued the following statement after the House voted to approve H.R. 880, the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, legislation that would make the Research and Experimentation Credit (R&D credit) permanent without addressing the $182 billion it adds to the deficit: “Federal support for research and development is absolutely essential to creating high-skilled jobs and promoting a strong economy in my district and across the country, but that support comes at a cost, and this bill refuses to pay it. By making the R&D tax credit permanent without offsetting the costs by closing other tax loopholes, we add $182 billion to the deficit. That’s simply unacceptable. “Republicans have consistently applied a double standard to bills that spend taxpayer dollars ― cutting wantonly and invoking the deficit when it comes to programs that help create jobs for working families, but tossing the budget out of the window when it suits them. I support effective, tailored tax relief, such as making the R&D credit permanent, but we need to pay for it so that we can make all of the other important investments this country needs.”
05.20.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (May 20, 2015) ― Today, Aasim Johnson, a rising Senior at Rider University from Lawrence Township, NJ spent the day with Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) for the 4th Annual Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day. Aasim and 60 other foster youth alumni from across the country traveled to Washington for in-depth look at the work of Members of Congress and a day in the House of Representatives. “Aasim’s bright spirit, infectious curiosity, and incredible intelligence made him a pleasure to be around, and I’m so thrilled to have shared this experience with him,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “His personal story and experience in the foster care system are important to understand as we seek ways to protect and nurture children in that system now. I am committed to ensuring that our nation’s child welfare system provides children like Aasim with the safe, stable and loving atmosphere that they need.” “It was a great experience spending the day with Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, and it’s reassuring to know that the Congresswoman is concerned about child welfare in the 12th Congressional District,” said Johnson. “I’m so grateful she took the time to spend the day with me.” Johnson and Rep. Watson Coleman met with constituents, attended a meeting of the House Homeland Security Committee, and spent time at a service event building care packages for active duty service members deployed overseas. Rep. Watson Coleman is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth. For additional photos, click here.
05.13.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (May 13, 2015) ― Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after an Amtrak train headed from Washington to New York City derailed in Philadelphia, killing six passengers and injuring 146 others: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of those who lost loved ones in this tragic accident, as well as those injured as a result of last night’s derailment. Our first priority must be ensuring that each of the 238 passengers onboard are accounted for, and from there we must move quickly to understand exactly what caused this incident. I have reached out to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, as well as Amtrak Board Chairman Tony Coscia, and I look forward to a speedy resolution. “Thousands of my constituents and many of the businesses in my district rely on Amtrak travel along the affected route ― a route I frequently take to and from Washington. Each time we step on board, we expect a safe and dependable trip. While we don’t yet know what caused the train to derail, catastrophes like this one are a stark reminder of our reliance on aging, and often entirely outdated infrastructure. “I pray for the speedy recoveries of those injured, and as we consider next steps I hope that Congress will heed the inherent warning of this tragedy. It’s well past time to invest in and renew our nation’s infrastructure.” 12th District constituents with questions or concerns should contact Rep. Watson Coleman’s Ewing, New Jersey office at (609) 883-0026.
05.13.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (Monday, May 11, 2015) ― At a press conference today in the Serenity Garden in Trenton, Rep, Bonnie Watson Coleman announced plans to introduce the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2015, legislation that would place limits and safeguards on the online market for ammunition. “Today, I stood with faith leaders, community members, and elected officials who all agree that we need to take every action available to us to reduce gun violence, and the tragic impact it has on our communities,” said Congresswoman Watson Coleman. “This bill would take the most basic steps to slow the proliferation of guns and ammunition, helping to prevent events like what we saw in Aurora, Colorado three years ago. Congress can, and must do more to keep our families safe, and we’re urging them to do just that.” “Far too many times, we have seen the shocking images of unspeakable gun violence that could have been prevented,” said Congressman Frank Pallone (NJ-06), an original cosponsor. “Our bill to limit the online sale of ammunition is a long-overdue common sense reform that I am hopeful will spark Congress to put aside party difference and come together to help prevent such senseless tragedies.” “Too many lives have been lost as a result of senseless gun violence, and it’s well past time for Congress to enact sensible gun safety measures like reducing unchecked online ammunition purchases,” said Congressman Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), an original cosponsor of the bill. “This common-sense reform would save lives by depriving violent criminals of a means of anonymously amassing ammunition without proper scrutiny. As a cosponsor of this legislation, I am proud to join Congresswoman Watson Coleman in taking proactive steps to reduce gun violence and prevent another tragedy.” Carole Stiller, President of the NJ Million Mom March (MMM) Chapters, said that local MMM/Brady Chapters across the country will be reaching out to their congressional representatives to cosponsor the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2015 and that the staff of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence in Washington will be working on the Hill to move this legislation forward. “A consumer product that has the potential to kill, like a bullet, should be regulated in a manner similar to cigarettes and certain allergy medicines,” Stiller said. “Legislation like this can help prevent tragedies.” “Every day that we fail to make basic changes to our nation’s gun laws is one more day that the lives of our loved ones are put needlessly at risk," said Milly Silva, Executive Vice President of 1199SEIU. "In hospitals and rehabilitation centers across the country, the healthcare workers of 1199 SEIU witness first-hand the devastating impact of gun violence. We are proud to stand with Congresswoman Watson Coleman to support this legislation which will help to protect our communities against violence which tears apart so many innocent families.” "As a long time leader in gun violence prevention, our Ceasefire NJ Project has overcome the resistance of the NRA to other common sense laws such as New Jersey's Assault Weapons Ban, limiting handgun purchases to one per month, and the Childproof Handgun Bill,” said. Rev. Robert Moore, Executive Director of the Coalition for Peace Action. “ We are committed to join with Rep. Watson Coleman and others in fighting for this important new gun safety measure." The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2015 would require federally licensed ammunitions dealers to confirm the identity of individuals who arrange to purchase ammunition over the internet by verifying a photo I.D. in-person. The bill would also require ammunition vendors to report any sales of more than 1,000 rounds within five consecutive days to the U.S. Attorney General, if the person purchasing ammunition is not a licensed dealer. The bill has been endorsed by the Brady Campaign to End Gun Violence and its nationwide network of chapters, and the Newtown Action Alliance. To see the text of the bill, click here.
05.05.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (May 5, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement in honor of National Teacher Day: “Teachers are the linchpin of any community. We entrust them with cultivating the minds of our children, serving as positive role models for young people, and preparing the next generation to take on the world. These responsibilities are invaluable, but often under appreciated. Each year, National Teacher Day gives us an opportunity express our gratitude to educators for their tireless and selfless work. “Teachers dedicate countless hours, personal time, and even money out of their own pockets to making learning effective and fun for every student. Washington needs to promote policies that support our teachers and the children in their classrooms, and I am fighting every day to make sure that happens.”
04.27.2015	For Immediate Release Washington DC (April 27, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement announcing her decision to join the Bipartisan Taskforce on Anti-Semitism, a group of Members of the House of Representatives dedicated to ensuring that Congress develops and implements policies that condemn anti-Semitism and promote tolerance around the world through education for Members of Congress, engagement with the Executive branch and foreign leaders, and cooperation with civil society organizations. “As a society built upon universal liberties and basic human rights, it is our responsibility to protect and encourage those values around the world. Where any group is threatened or persecuted and we fail to push back, we threaten the foundations of this country. Jewish populations have been the target of increased violence and attacks at their schools, synagogues, homes, and places of business. I’m committed to making sure that we prevent these incidents, and I look forward to working with my Taskforce colleagues to bring an end to anti-Semitism once and for all.” The Taskforce is chaired by Reps. Chris Smith (NJ-04), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Kay Granger (TX-12), Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Ted Deutch (FL-21). Recent news reports and polls have found evidence of increased anti-Semitism across Europe, resulting in additional attention from Congress, including the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
04.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (April 23, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) issued the following statement after Senate confirmed Loretta Lynch as the next Attorney General of the United States, making her the first African American woman to serve in that role: “Attorney General Loretta Lynch has spent most of her career fighting to ensure that justice is offered to every American, and that the principles of freedom and equality this nation was founded upon are applied fairly in our justice system. I am confident that she will remain steadfast in her dedication to those principles as she takes a place in history that she has earned through her years of service. “This is an incredible moment for our nation, as the first African American Attorney General leaves office, and the first African American woman takes his place. But while that narrative means so much for children of color who may never otherwise have aspired to roles like this one, it shouldn’t overshadow the tremendous work Attorney General Holder has done to protect voting rights, reduce incarceration, and assess the practices of law enforcement, or the incredible talent and passion that Attorney General Lynch will bring to bear. “The only blemish on this moment is the unfortunate fact that it took Senate Republicans 126 days to let go of politics and advance this eminently qualified nominee. Nonetheless, I look forward to working with Attorney General Lynch and the Department of Justice to help ensure that Americans in my district and across the country are treated fairly, and that justice remains accessible to all.”
04.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (April 23, 2015) ― Today, the House passed H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, legislation that included a provision to encourage public awareness and education on personal cyber security authored by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), a Member of the House Homeland Security Committee. “I am pleased to see Congress taking an active interest in our nation’s cybersecurity, and I’m glad that bill we passed today includes my provision encouraging greater awareness of the vulnerabilities that exist for our seniors, students, small businesses, military, veterans, and all Americans,” Watson Coleman said. “Cyber attacks represent a growing threat to American families and our national security. By making sure people understand the basic steps they can take to protect their networks we can prevent these attacks and improve our nation’s overall cybersecurity defenses.” The Watson Coleman provision was added to the bill during the Homeland Security Committee mark-up of H.R. 1731 on April 14. The provision directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to launch a concerted and sustained campaign to educate individuals about personal cyber security through effective public service announcements published online and communicated through social media. It also directs DHS to devise creative wage to engage the public on simple steps to help thwart a cyber-breach. The Cybersecurity Protection and Advancement Act would amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to improve information sharing in an effort to thwart the growing risk posed by hackers and cyber-attacks perpetrated by foreign nations. To see the original text of Watson Coleman’s amendment, click here.
04.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC (April 22, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) introduced the Taxpayer Economic Hardship Protection Act of 2015, legislation that would provide relief to low-income and economically vulnerable Americans who would otherwise be subject to wage garnishments by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Taxpayer Economic Hardship Protection Act would codify procedures to ensure the IRS cannot issue levies ― wage garnishments, retirement account garnishments, or seizing of any property ― against those who qualify as likely to experience economic hardship, defined as individuals with incomes at less than 250 percent of the federal poverty rate. “If you’re making $29,000 dollars a year, roughly the amount that the IRS defines as economic hardship, every penny you get is going toward things that are keeping you above water ― things like rent, groceries, and train fare to get you to and from your job,” said Watson Coleman. “Recklessly recouping the funds from already economically vulnerable Americans will be the final financial blow for these families. This bill ensures that the IRS uses the tools already at its disposal to responsibly manage tax collections.” Current law requires the IRS to release a levy if it is determined that such action will create an economic hardship on the taxpayer involved. An economic hardship does not remove tax liability, but in lieu of a levy, the IRS can work with an individual to establish a payment plan or other more manageable means of collecting the debt. Unfortunately, despite a 2011 U.S. Tax Court Decision that clarified the IRS cannot issue levies on taxpayers in economic hardship even if they have recent unfiled returns, and further guidance from the independent Office of the Taxpayer Advocate, the IRS continues to levy taxpayers facing financial difficulty. The Taxpayer Economic Hardship Protection Act of 2015 would codify the recommendations of the Taxpayer Advocate to protect low-income and economically vulnerable taxpayers. Specifically, the bill would: •Establish IRS quality review procedures to ensure that economic hardship taxpayers are properly categorized to avoid issuing improper levies; •Adjust the Federal payment Levy Program to ensure that the low income filter includes accounts with unfiled returns, and; •Improve training for IRS collections employees as to how to manage economic hardship cases. To see the full text of the bill, click here.
04.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (April 14, 2015) ― Today, the House Committee on Homeland Security passed the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, legislation that included a provision to encourage public awareness and education on personal cyber security authored by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12). “Cybersecurity should be at the core of our national security agenda. This bill seeks to address the sophisticated details of how companies share cyber threat information, yet as much as 80 percent of exploitable vulnerabilities in cyberspace are a direct result of software vulnerabilities or poor or nonexistent cyber hygiene,” Watson Coleman said. “We must ensure the American people understand the basic steps they can take to protect their networks and, ultimately, improve our nation’s overall cyber security protection profile.” The Watson Coleman amendment, agreed to in Committee, directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to launch a concerted and sustained campaign to educate individuals about personal cyber security through effective public service announcements published online and communicated through social media. It also directs DHS to devise creative wage to engage the public on simple steps to help thwart a cyber-breach. The Cybersecurity Protection and Advancement Act would amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to improve information sharing in an effort to thwart the growing risk posed by hackers and cyber-attacks perpetrated by foreign nations. The bill now awaits consideration on the floor of the House. To see the full text of the bill, click here. To see the full text of Watson Coleman’s amendment, click here.
04.10.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (April 10, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after the New Jersey Department of Corrections confirmed a contract with the potential to lower prison and jail phone rates: “Many families dealing with a loved one in prison or jail already face difficult circumstances, like smaller household budgets and the mental and emotional hardship of physical separation. The exorbitant costs associated with calls from New Jersey jails and prisons place an added, unfair, and unnecessary burden on these families. I’m encouraged by the potential for lower call rates, and I’m hopeful this will be outcome. “I fought to address this issue in the General Assembly, and I’ve continued those efforts at the federal level. We need a prison system in New Jersey and nationwide that focuses on rehabilitation and reducing recidivism. Giving inmates the ability to stay in touch with their families is a critical element of improving the system.” Earlier this year, Watson Coleman sent a letter commending the Federal Communications Commission for new efforts to regulate private companies that provide interstate telephone service for prison and jail inmates. A 2011 report by the Vera Institute of Justice suggests that incarcerated individuals who maintained supportive relationships with family members had better outcomes when they returned to their communities.
04.09.2015	For Immediate Release Ewing, NJ (April 9, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) toured three food pantries across New Jersey’s 12th Congressional District to better understand the services these centers provide, and highlight their importance in the community. Earlier this year, Watson Coleman signed a letter urging continued federal support for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP), which assists local food banks and emergency feeding agencies with their mission to serve those in need. “While we’ve seen some signs of economic recovery, far too many families are still struggling to make ends meet. Keeping food on the table can be one of the greatest challenges,” said Watson Coleman. “The sites we toured today help bridge the gap for families and seniors in need. But they won’t be able to continue that work if we allow cuts to the federal programs that support them. Food pantries help hardworking families get back on their feet. Cutting federal funding for programs like TEFAP risks sending those same families back into a spiral of poverty.” Watson Coleman visited Somerset’s Franklin Township Food Pantry, the St. Peter’s CDC Food Pantry in Spotswood, and the Lord’s Kitchen Feeding Program operated by Shiloh Church in Plainfield.
03.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, DC (March 27, 2015) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), issued the following statement on Governor Christie’s decision to join an amicus brief in support of the Texas challenge of President Obama’s Executive Action on Immigration: “The President’s executive actions on immigration aren't just sound policy, they are also backed by more than half a century of precedent. Every President since Eisenhower has used his executive authority to address immigration issues. President Obama’s executive actions are, at their core, an attempt to fill the gap left by House Republicans’ refusal to bring bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform legislation up for a vote. “It is disappointing, but not surprising, that Governor Christie would join Texas in a transparently partisan legal challenge. This is just another example of the Governor putting his political ambitions ahead of the interests of New Jersey residents. More than 200,000 children and parents in New Jersey would directly benefit from the ability to learn, work, and contribute here in the U.S. It seems that Christie would rather join Republican fear mongering than encourage his GOP colleagues to address immigration head on, depriving these individuals of their chance to earn the American Dream.”
03.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, DC (March 26, 2015) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Oversight and Management Efficiency Subcommittee, introduced H.R. 1646, the Homeland Security Drone Assessment and Analysis Act, legislation intended to address the potential threat posed by small and medium-sized commercial drones. “Drones have the potential for so much good, but like most technology there’s significant risk that they will be used for harm,” said Watson Coleman. “This bill addresses the need for security policies for drones, and coordination with state and local law enforcement to ensure we’re prepared for, and ideally able to prevent, an attack by a commercially available drone.” “On January 27, a small drone landed on the grounds of the White House, and more recently, drones were observed flying over sensitive assets in France, including nuclear instillations, the home of the French President, and near the United States Embassy. Incidents like these demonstrate the risk posed by these devices and should add urgency to our response.” “For far too long, DHS has ‎failed to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the security threat small and medium-sized drones pose,” said Full Committee Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS). “I applaud Subcommittee Ranking Member Watson Coleman for authoring legislation requiring the Department to do just that. I trust Chairman McCaul will see the wisdom of moving the bill through the Committee so that this emerging potential threat is addressed.” H.R. 1646 would require DHS to: Research how commercially available small and medium-sized drones could be used to perpetrate an attack; Take the lead as the Federal department responsible for developing policies, guidance, and protocols to prevent an attack perpetrated with a small or medium-sized drone; Disseminate information to State, local and tribal law enforcement officials regarding how to respond to potential threats from these drones, and; Conduct an assessment of the security threat associated with the commercial availability of drones. To see the full text of H.R. 1646 click here. To see the fact sheet for H.R. 1646, click here.
03.19.2015	For Immediate Release: Washington, DC (March 19, 2015) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), issued the following statement after the House voted on a resolution that would prohibit the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from adopting a rule to modernize and streamline election procedures and appeals litigation. “One of the first votes Republicans scheduled for this session of Congress was on legislation that would make it easier for employers to skirt the Affordable Care Act’s requirements that big businesses offer employees healthcare ― clear and obvious pandering to corporate interests. It’s only gotten worse since then, with legislative handouts to seemingly every industry imaginable, and still no support for hardworking Americans,” Watson Coleman said. “Republicans are using the Congressional Review Act to hinder the NLRB from making basic, logical changes that will close loopholes currently exploited by businesses seeking to block unions. In so doing, they’re siding with corporations over the constituents that elected them, and making it clear that they do not care about the interests of American families. Enough is enough. The American people deserve better.” On January 8, 2015 the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 30, which would change the definition of full time work within the Affordable Care Act from 30 to 40 hours, making it easier for companies to avoid offering insurance to their employees. Today, the House voted on S.J.Res 8, which would prohibit the NLRB from moving forward with several essential reforms, including electronic filing of election petitions and consolidating all election-related appeals into a single appeals process ― a change that would prevent employers from stalling union formation by filing repeated appeals for the NLRB hearing officer to resolve before elections can move forward. The resolution also bars the NLRB from ever adopting another rule in “substantially the same form.” The NLRB issued their final ruling on December 15, 2014.
03.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Ewing, NJ (March 13, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement on the passing of Michael Graves, one of the most significant American architects in recent history and a Princeton, NJ resident for nearly 50 years: “Michael Graves has left an indelible impact on New Jersey and the nation, and he will be greatly missed. Through a career that spanned teaching the next crop of bright minds, designing some of the most architecturally significant buildings in the nation, and using his outstanding talents to make the lives of the disabled a little bit easier, Mr. Graves remained steadfastly dedicated to doing what he felt was right. He earned a devoted following, a National Medal of Art, and a spot in the New Jersey Hall of Fame for those efforts. “From international recognition as one of the New York Five, to his recent establishment of the Michael Graves School of Architecture at Kean University, both the structures and legacy he leaves behind will allow his memory to live on. I pray for strength and solace for the family and friends he leaves behind.” ###
03.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, DC (March 12, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) led 54 Members of Congress on a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell urging HHS to establish pregnancy as a “qualifying life event,” triggering a 60-day special open enrollment period in the federal exchange for women who have become pregnant. “If a woman becomes pregnant while uninsured at a time outside of the annual Open Enrollment period, or is enrolled in a grandfathered plan that does not cover maternity services, she will not able to access coverage for maternity care,” the letter reads. “These women are forced to either forgo critical prenatal care or face significant out of pocket costs. Special enrollment periods currently exist for qualifying life events like the birth of a child or the adoption of a child. We believe pregnancy should trigger a similar special enrollment period.” A recent report from Young Invincibles suggests that basic prenatal care and delivery average nearly $20,000 out-of-pocket, and that pregnancy related maternal mortality is three to four times higher among women who receive no prenatal care, when compared with women who do. Young Invincibles, Daily Kos and RH Reality Check also led a 50,000-person petition and a separate letter to Secretary Burwell signed by 32 advocacy groups, including the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Planned Parenthood Federation of America, NARAL Pro Choice America and March of Dimes. “The number of health advocates, Members of Congress, and average Americans calling for this change highlights the importance of this issue and should inspire special urgency for the Department of Health and Human Services,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “Making sure pregnant women can get the care they need will improve health outcomes for millions of mothers and their babies , and I hope HHS will take steps to implement this change as quickly as possible.” “The Department of Health & Human Services has demonstrated a willingness to break from insurance industry practices that did not advance public health," said Christina Postolowski, Health Policy Manager at Young Invincibles. "We hope that they will hear the pleas of a growing chorus calling on them to exercise the same leadership." To see the full text of the letter, click here. ###
03.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Ewing, NJ (March 10, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement after the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled unanimously that Governor Chris Christie’s administration repeatedly failed to comply with its order to establish new affordable housing guidelines for New Jersey towns, and transferred authority to trial judges: “Housing is intrinsically linked to every other aspect of our lives, from the education our children have access to, to the safety of our neighborhoods, to the jobs we’re able to find. When affordable housing is available in all communities, rather than concentrated in underserved regions, we ensure equal access to economic opportunity for all of our residents ― and we make New Jersey stronger. “As a member of the General Assembly, I led the fight for A-500, legislation that built the fair housing framework Governor Christie has refused to enforce. The State Supreme Court’s decision is a landmark moment for our entire state, and the underlying policies have the potential to improve millions of lives across the country. I’ll be fighting for changes like these in Washington, D.C. just as hard as I fought for them in Trenton.”
03.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Ewing, NJ (March 6, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) joined Americans across the country in honoring the 50th Anniversary of “Bloody Sunday,” when civil rights leaders marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama on their way to Montgomery to protest the “Jim Crow” laws that kept Black Americans from the ballot box and were brutally attacked by Alabama State Troopers. The March 7, 1965 march sparked national attention that culminated in the passage of the Voting Rights Act. "On the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday and the Selma to Montgomery Marches, our entire nation celebrates the legacy of the civil rights leaders that helped push us forward,” Watson Coleman said. “We honor Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Congressman John Lewis, and the others we know so well. But we must also remember that those marches, and the entire civil rights movement, were a coalition that included women like Amelia Boynton, Annie Lee Cooper and Diane Nash. Its leaders mattered, but so did average people, like Viola Liuzzo, who had the courage to dedicate their lives to the cause. Without their involvement, the images that moved the nation from indifference to compassion may never have been seen. "The unity of the men and women on that bridge, in the face of brutality and ignorance, gave the country the strength to tackle one of its greatest injustices. We're still fighting many of those battles today -- and that unity is more important now than ever. We must all take up the charge of those who fought before us, and honor their legacies by continuing to fight for equality and economic opportunity for every American." ###
03.03.2015	For Immediate Release Contact: Courtney Cochran (202) 225-5801 WATSON COLEMAN “RELIEVED” AT HOUSE PASSAGE OF DHS FUNDING BILL Washington, DC (March 3, 2015) ― Today, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 240, a clean, full-year funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security, clearing it for signature by the President: “Today, House Republicans did what they ought to have done all along, passing bipartisan legislation that will fully fund the Department of Homeland Security through the remainder of the fiscal year. From the beginning, my Democratic colleagues and I called on Republicans to place our nation’s security over politics, and I am relieved that this is the final outcome. “Congress has plenty of issues to work on – securing equal pay for women, focusing on the infrastructure investments that will give Americans the jobs they need, and addressing the inequities in our criminal justice system among them. With funding for the agency tasked with keeping our country safe out of the way, I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle are ready to get to work on these and plenty of other issues that matter to the American people.” ###
03.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Courtney Cochran, (202) 225-5801 Washington, DC (March 2, 2015) ― Today, Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement ahead of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s March 3 address to a joint session of Congress: “As a fierce supporter of Israel, I am disappointed in Speaker Boehner’s efforts to drag Prime Minister Netanyahu into the GOP’s endless efforts to undermine President Obama. His failure to consult with the White House ahead of inviting the Prime Minister, and his decision to move forward with the address despite the upcoming Israeli elections is inappropriate and disruptive to U.S. foreign policy. Further, Speaker Boehner has chosen to violate protocol and disrespect the long history of bipartisan support for Israel in this chamber while we are in the midst of the most serious Iranian nuclear negotiations in our nation’s history. “In February, I joined 23 of my colleagues in urging Speaker Boehner to postpone the invitation because of my misgivings. Unfortunately, that letter received no response. After significant thought and consultation, I cannot condone Speaker Boehner’s tactics, and do not feel I can attend the Prime Minister’s address. “While I regret the unfortunate circumstances that the Speaker has set in motion, I firmly believe that Israel remains our most important strategic ally in the Middle East. I look forward to working with my colleagues on policies that will further the U.S.-Israel relationship, and our joint interests.” ###
01.22.2015	Today, on the 42nd anniversary of Roe v. Wade, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) voted against H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015, a misleadingly named bill that would restrict women’s private health care options. This bill was a last-minute, late-night addition to the House Floor schedule by House Republicans after pulling H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, an unconstitutional national ban on abortions after 20 weeks. Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman released the following statement: “H.R. 7 and H.R. 36 are radical assaults against women’s health care options and reproductive rights. Late last night, without notice to members, the Majority pulled their original bill and rushed a new one to the floor, after Republicans failed to garner enough support for their own extreme measure that would have stripped women of their constitutionally-protected right to manage their own health care decisions. H.R. 7 is no better. This bill denies women access to critical medical care and comprehensive health care coverage.” “I share the consensus with the 78% of American voters, including New Jerseyans in the 12th Congressional District, who believe the government should not interfere in a discussion reserved for a woman and her medical doctor. I am committed to protecting women’s access to comprehensive reproductive health care services, including access to contraceptives; education regarding all reproductive options; and support for women before, during, and after the birth of a child. I will continue to defend a woman's right to choose and vigorously oppose attacks against it.” ###
01.20.2015	Following her first State of the Union Address as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s speech: “I am proud that President Obama has continued to focus on the issues that New Jerseyans care about most - creating jobs, fostering a fair economic playing field, and improving educational opportunities for all Americans. I share the President’s commitment to these issues, and look forward to working with him and my new colleagues here in Washington to make these goals a reality. After years of record corporate success and profits, I believe that the President’s plan can begin to bring that same success to American families. It is important that we maintain the economic momentum that we have seen over the past several years. The evidence is clear: 58 straight months of positive job creation, 5.6 percent unemployment – the lowest rate since the recession began in 2008 – and 11.2 million jobs created over the past 5 years. While these numbers are positive, when I tour my district, the windfalls of this growth too seldom reach my constituents hit hardest by the economic downturn, and who still today deserve our full attention and support. That is why I am heartened by the President’s call to increase protections for workers and to invest in new, bold job creation strategies. I support the President’s goals to grant American workers paid family and medical leave. No parent should have to fear losing a job to take care of a sick child, or be forced to go to work while ill because they need to make ends meet. American workers aren’t looking for a handout—they simply expect decency and fairness in the workplace. I also support the President in his call for job creation. By focusing on manufacturing, tech jobs, and higher education, we will be able to put more Americans back to work for the 21st Century workforce. The President’s proposals on manufacturing hubs, investments in cyber security, and the America’s College Promise proposal are steps in the right direction. I look forward to working with the Administration to strengthen these proposals to ensure that all Americans have access to these important programs. In addition, as a member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I am glad that the president laid out fresh and effective plans for cybersecurity by centering on ways to improve and protect identity theft. I look forward to working with him and my colleagues across the aisle to secure our privacy, and protect Americans against cyber threats. The President laid out a bold and ambitious proposal to keep our nation on the right track—now it’s time for Congress to get back to work for the American people. I look forward to dealing with these and other important issues that face New Jersey’s 12th District.” ##
01.16.2015	Following the announcement late Friday that the United States Supreme Court will review four cases from Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee, in the only federal appellate court circuit to uphold a ban on same-sex marriage, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) issued the following statement: “There are 36 states that already grant marriage rights to our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters. Considering also the federal recognition of same-sex marriages through the landmark court case of the United States v Windsor, we cannot ask committed couples and their children to wait any longer. As we commemorate the late Martin Luther King Jr, it is critical to remember the civil rights activists who have shaped change throughout our country’s history. We must secure these rights and continue the progress of equality for all citizens so that all couples, regardless of orientation, can be recognized and protected under law. I applaud all those fighting on behalf of this cause, and urge the Supreme Court to recognize the importance of this historic moment in ensuring liberty and justice for all.” # # #
01.09.2015	In one of her first major House votes, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman voted against legislation today to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. Rep. Watson Coleman, who was sworn in on Tuesday to represent the 12th Congressional District of New Jersey, was among 153 Democrats to vote against the bill, which passed the House 266 - 153. H.R. 3 authorizes construction of the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline from northwest Canada to the Gulf Coast refineries and exempts the pipeline from all federal permitting requirements, creating a special exemption for one project from requirements that apply to all other construction projects. According to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, tar sands crude produces up to 40% more carbon pollution than conventional oil, and can only be extracted by dirty, destructive methods that severely harm the air, water, and environment of the region. Watson Coleman said, “I am deeply concerned about the environmental impact of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline. Approval of this project will increase carbon pollution and threaten our nation’s critical water resources. Furthermore, this legislation does not protect the American people from potential leaks from the highly corrosive crude in the pipeline.” She continued, “Americans accept all the risk and no reward.” Under this legislation, TransCanada would be exempt from the 8-cents-per-barrel excise tax that funds the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, which all other crude oil companies are subject to and pays for recovery in the case of future oil spills. “American taxpayers would likely be on the hook for any clean-ups.” Rep. Watson Coleman said she heavily deliberated the risks and benefits of the project during Friday’s debate, and ultimately decided that the economic benefits are minimal and that the risks are too high. “I strongly support infrastructure projects that create good-paying jobs and put New Jerseyans back to work, but the negative implications of the Keystone pipeline strongly outweigh the negligible, so-called benefits of the project. Keystone creates virtually no long term jobs, will have little effect on gas prices, and tramples on our environmental laws. We need sustainable jobs that will drive long term economic growth. Keystone does not do that.” ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Bonnie Watson Coleman was elected to serve as representative of New Jersey’s 12th Congressional District. Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
