04.12.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the death of Coby Mach. Mach was a longtime Lincoln radio host and President of the Lincoln Independent Business Association. “Coby Mach cared deeply for his neighbors, his community, and our state. He served all of us though his work at KLIN and as President of the Lincoln Independent Business Association. His death is simply heartbreaking. Melissa and I lift up his wife, Lorie, and children in prayer.”
04.10.2019	“[W]hen you bring up violence, I mean, there's violence in abortion. It's in the abortion. Can you explain to me how the pro-life position is in any way violent, and how any community standards could ever say a pro-life person's speech should be shut down…” Video of the Senator’s full exchange is available here or by clicking on the image above Today at the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse pressed social media companies on the definition of hate speech and how pro-life advocacy is not violence. Senator Sasse’s full exchange can be found here and a partial transcript is found below:Senator Sasse: Can you define hate speech? Mr. Neil Potts (Facebook): Senator, thank you, I'll take a stab at it. Both giving you the definition from a Facebook position, but I - we’re also recognizing there's not a universal definition of hate speech across the globe. So, to Facebook the way we define hate speech is an attack against a person or a group of people based on their protected characteristic like race, religion, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, as well as serious disability. We define attack to mean, something like, using words that are dehumanizing, cause for violence, contempt or disgust, exclusion or segregation. But I think your point is...is the accurate one, is to how do you draw those lines to allow a free flow of ideas, to allow debate, but also for us to keep the community safe. So, we on my team, and the teams that we work with, we really fight through that, that struggle abounds in voice vs. safety. So, we want to give voice to more people. We err on the side of giving voice. There is a lot of content that I find, perhaps, offensive - and maybe some of you all would find offensive as well - that we allow on the platform because it doesn't violate our policies. But, when we draw the line, and we say that that this type of speech is going to lead to violence, it is dehumanizing, we do remove it under our policies. And... Sen. Sasse: I don't mean to be rude. I don't want to interrupt you, if we had a lot more time here. But I just want to ask a precise point here because I'm well over time right now. A lot of the context of this debate is around the pro-life movement and when you bring up violence, I mean, there's violence in abortion. It's in the abortion. Can you explain to me how the pro-life position is in any way violent, and how any community standards could ever say a pro-life person's speech should be shut down because somehow… I don't follow from this...I could understand how you could say that a whole bunch of positions advocating the most extreme abortion laws that exist on earth: the U.S., China, North Korea, and Vietnam are the only nations that allow abortion until moments before delivery. Out of 200 countries there are four on Earth that do that. We're one of those four. There's clearly violence associated with that conversation. It's on the abortion advocates' side of the debate. How is the pro-life side ever guilty of something that equates to violence? Like, how could a pro-life position ever be shut down because of safety? Mr. Potts: That's a great question Senator. And, to be clear, a lot of this depends on intent...and in the context of statements or images or video as are shared so it's hard to do the hypothetical. But a general pro-life position would not be violating our community standards for hate speech.
04.10.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after twelve more Nebraska counties were approved by FEMA to receive individual assistance. Recently, Senators Sasse and Fischer urged FEMA to expedite aid for Nebraska counties which had not yet been designated eligible for individual assistance."Across our state, Nebraskans are working hard to clean up and rebuild. The individual assistance designation from FEMA is an important step to help our communities recover. There's still a lot of work to do, but I'm glad our federal partners are taking the situation seriously."
04.09.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the nomination of General John Hyten, commander of U.S. Strategic Command, to be Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.“General Hyten knows how to combine sharp thinking with fast action. He’s pushed our military to move quickly to meet urgent needs, while committing time and resources to long-term challenges. He’s been a thoughtful warrior for the Air Force over the course of his career and most recently as the Commander of U.S. Strategic Command. Our military and our nation will be well served with him as Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.”
04.05.2019	"A formal designation and its consequences may be new, but these IRGC butchers have been terrorists for a long time." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding news that the Administration is preparing to designate Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as a Foreign Terrorist Organization. "A formal designation and its consequences may be new, but these IRGC butchers have been terrorists for a long time. This would be an important step in our maximum-pressure campaign against Iran, the largest state-sponsor of terror and the biggest chaos agent inside the Middle East. This would greatly expand our ability to roll back Iran’s ability to fund and export terror abroad."
04.04.2019	“Agriculture took a big hit, but nobody outworks Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers.” Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse wrote to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, seeking regulatory relief for Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers in the wake of the state’s historic flood. “Agriculture took a big hit, but nobody outworks Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers,” said Senator Sasse. “Nebraska is going to get the job done, and we could use some help from our partners at the Department of Agriculture. We’ve got a long road ahead, but we’ll pull together.” Sasse, who will spend Friday surveying damage alongside Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson and Nebraska Cattlemen President Mike Drinnin, asked the Department of Agriculture for three common-sense steps: 1. Providing additional flexibility as needed with deadlines in the Livestock Indemnity Program for Nebraskans still recovering from the disaster.2. Waiving a narrow definition of “winter storm” that currently requires three consecutive days, which does not adequately cover the fast-moving and extreme weather conditions that Nebraska faced. 3. Detailing additional USDA personnel to help county and state Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices.Sasse’s full letter is found below: Dear Secretary Perdue: Thank you for your continued focus on our agricultural producers during your tenure at the USDA. I am grateful that you understand the unique challenges that farmers and ranchers face and that you are willing to work with them during this challenging time. I write today to ask that you provide appropriate regulatory relief for farmers and ranchers while they get back to work, and that you consider sending more personnel to assist county and state Farm Service Agency offices with claims and inspections.Thank you for extending the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP) deadline for the combination of extended cold and above-normal precipitation during January, February, and March. The deadline for producers to submit a LIP Notice of Loss deadline of April 29, 2019 provides additional time for documentation to be collected. However, I ask that you continue to monitor the situation so that if producers have difficulty filing a Notice of Loss within 30-calendar days of the loss that they be given some flexibility to gather the required documents necessary for assistance. Given the destruction, producers should be granted as much flexibility with deadlines as possible. The flooding naturally has its own timeline. Your understanding that producers need the flexibility to apply for assistance is appreciated. Additionally, for the LIP program, I ask that you waive the winter storm definition, which requires “3 consecutive days” of “a combination of high winds, freezing rain or sleet, heavy snowfall, and extremely cold temperatures.”[1] It is my understanding that this type of specific timeline does not appear in other weather-related definitions for the LIP. This definition requires producers affected by adverse winter weather conditions to meet a higher threshold than other weather events, disproportionately affecting some farmers and ranchers. I ask also that you allow the FSA State Technical Committee to review the timeframe from January through April to determine producers’ loss and review producers’ applications to determine eligible loss conditions. Nebraska is in the calving season, and the recent pattern of severe winter weather with below zero temperatures, followed by warmer days, then followed by below zero temperatures, has caused stress to cattle and calves. Cycles of warm-to-below-zero temperatures, muddy conditions, freezing rain, snow and ice coats on cattle, and blizzard conditions have stressed Nebraska livestock for an extended period of time, and can result in decreased production, illness, pneumonia and other disease that might not be expressly clear in the proof of death evidence documentation. These conditions can materialize days or weeks after the time frame proscribed in the LIP regulations. Farmers and ranchers are facing substantive economic loss and higher than average death loss due to these conditions. As you know, the LIP exists to provide benefits to livestock producers for livestock deaths in excess of normal mortality caused by adverse weather or by attacks by federally reintroduced animals.[2] Flexibility on mortality death loss should be granted given the duration of the winter weather in Nebraska. Finally, please consider sending more USDA personnel to the Presidentially declared disaster areas to assist county and state FSA offices with claims from producers and necessary inspections. Experts in these agricultural disaster programs provide technical expertise that can assist their colleagues and producers with the massive recovery that is only beginning to get underway. Nebraskans are no strangers to hard work, but we also know assistance is welcome with the challenges we have. Nebraskans—producers and nonproducers alike—are ready to rebuild and restore Nebraska’s lands, some of the most productive land in the nation. I ask that you do everything within your authority to make the recovery process quick, efficient, and economical for all effected by the 2019 floods. Thank you for your immediate attention to these matters. Sincerely,Ben Sasse
04.04.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation announced $25 million in Emergency Relief to help repair roads that were damaged by the recent Nebraska floods.“This disaster destroyed many of our bridges and roads. Nebraska is going to be rebuilding our infrastructure for months and years. This $25 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation is welcome news and a continued down payment on the work ahead. We've got a long road to recovery but Nebraskans are going to get the job done."
03.28.2019	Today, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse and Deb Fischer urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to expedite aid for Nebraska counties which have not yet been designated eligible for individual assistance. Full text of the letter is found below. Dear Acting Administrator Gaynor,In light of the devastating storms and ongoing flooding in Nebraska, we write to request FEMA continue to act upon Governor Rickett’s expedited request for Individual Assistance by quickly providing President Trump with verified damage assessments for counties which have not yet been designated eligible for Individual Assistance. We recognize and thank FEMA for their diligent and quick work and ask that damage assessments continue to be conducted at the same speed.President Trump has stated that additional areas may be designated for assistance upon completion of damage assessments. Given the historic damage caused by the flooding, we request that FEMA expedite its delivery of these damage assessments for the counties that have not yet been granted eligibility for the Individual Assistance as requested by Governor Ricketts. These counties include: Boone, Buffalo, Burt, Custer, Knox, Nance, Richardson, the Santee Sioux Nation, Saline, and Thurston. We are aware that expedited requests are rare. However, the severity of damage from the flooding presents the need for immediate action.Additionally, we request that the damage assessments for the outstanding counties be given to the President immediately upon completion of each individual county damage assessment rather than en bloc, so that assistance might be granted more quickly as their assessments have been verified.The President has already made federal funding available to individuals in nine of the 19 counties for which Governor Ricketts requested individual assistance. On behalf of the individuals in Butler, Cass, Colfax, Dodge, Douglas, Nemaha, Sarpy, Saunders, and Washington counties, we would like to express our gratitude to FEMA. The availability of this assistance will help Nebraskans in these counties to begin the long arduous process of rebuilding.Nebraskans have proven their resilience despite the level of destruction and we look forward to coordinating with our federal partners in the effort to rebuild. We appreciate the staff FEMA has deployed to Nebraska to provide assistance to our emergency coordinators and NEMA. We look forward to your response and thank you for your attention to this matter.Sincerely,U.S. Senator Ben SasseU.S. Senator Deb Fischer
03.27.2019	This is Nebraska. We’re resilient and just plain tough. Over the past few weeks, we’ve endured a lot: the storms and floods, the gutted homes and lost livestock, the heartache and – most tragically – the loss of life. It’s been a gut punch. But make no mistake: Nebraskans are going to rise above this. Over the past few weeks, I’ve met Nebraska heroes who took care of their neighbors and showed how our state will return stronger than ever.Brenda Garcia lost her home in the flood. But no sooner had she taken shelter at the local Lutheran church than she and her kids went to the volunteer line. When I asked how she could do that, having just lost her home, she didn’t miss a beat: “That’s just stuff,” she said. “God will provide. We want to serve.” I’ve seen that again and again. Nothing stops Nebraskans from helping their friends and neighbors.With water rising fast, Brad Brown in Waterloo didn’t think twice about piloting his boat to help the local volunteer fire department. His neighbors needed help, he had a boat: problem solved. He never asked for anything in return.John and Michelle Peterson live on the banks of the Platte. When their neighborhood became an island and nobody could get in or out with supplies, they joined together with their neighbors to share food. Later, John – who didn’t want to miss any work – waded through water over an impassable road, so a friend could give him a ride.Everyone has pitched in. We’ve had kids fill sandbags next to their parents. We’ve had moms and dads who lost everything dig deeper and find the strength to make those first, painful steps toward recovery.Nathaniel McClellan and a group of high schoolers went to overcrowded animal shelters and walked dogs to safety.In Elkhorn, the Humane Society and the Red Cross worked together to create a temporary kennel so that rescued families wouldn’t need to leave their pets behind.At a distribution center in Ashland, a man collected supplies to stabilize his home. The next day, he returned for more supplies – this time, for his neighbors.Since the flooding started, I’ve been going to the Nebraska communities hit hardest – not just to understand the damage, but to talk with and serve those who need help. Along with Governor Ricketts, who has led a strong state response to the flooding, I spent time with the National Guard along the Spencer Dam. I’ve visited washed-out communities, such as Niobrara and Lynch, and served in shelters in Fremont and Bellevue. I’ve helped efforts to get supplies into Ashland and to clean up along the Platte.I’m grateful for the help we’ve received from Washington, D.C. The President and his Administration have taken this disaster very seriously. I’ve had multiple conversations with President Trump, and have been able to update the President on what I’ve seen and heard. At the request of Governor Ricketts and with the support of Senator Fischer, myself, and Representatives Fortenberry, Bacon, and Smith, the President granted the emergency-declaration for Nebraska in just two days – speedy and crucial help. The Vice President flew to Omaha on Air Force 2, and I joined him in serving Nebraskans at a relief shelter. Vice President Pence is a Midwesterner, and he’s seen major flooding before – but he told me he’s never seen a flood like this. We know that recovery isn’t going to happen quickly. We’re going to be at this for months and years. We know the economic loss is going to be huge.But we also know that the story of this flood isn’t just about destruction. This is a story about Nebraskans loving their neighbors. It’s a story about a state that refuses to quit. It’s a story about communities that pull together. There are tears, of course. But there’s even more grit.We see it when our neighbors are in need after disaster strikes, and we see it on football Saturdays in the fall. No matter the circumstances – good or bad – Nebraskans pull together.We’ve got a long road ahead. But we’ll find a way. We’ll rebuild our homes and businesses. We’ll fix our roads, bridges, and levees. We’ll clean up our cornfields, ball fields, and streets. We’ll fill our grain bins and elevators, just like we always have. And, above all, we’ll care for our neighbors. That’s just what Nebraskans do. It’s who we are.
03.27.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), joined by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA), James Lankford (R-OK), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Josh Hawley (R-MO), Mike Crapo (R-ID), John Cornyn (R-TX), Mike Lee (R-UT), M. Michael Rounds (R-SD), and Jim Inhofe (R-OK), today introduced the Separation of Powers Restoration Act of 2019. Companion legislation was introduced by Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) in the House. This legislation stops bureaucrats from dictating to judges how to interpret laws passed by Congress and their own regulations. “This bill is about Schoolhouse Rock basics,” said Senator Sasse. “Congress writes the laws, the Executive Branch enforces them, and the courts resolve cases and controversies. That basic system has been turned upside-down: Unelected bureaucrats that nobody can fire write an avalanche of regulations, and the courts just trust them to interpret the limits of the law and even their own regulations. This bill tries to restore some accountability by making sure that judges don’t automatically defer to Washington’s alphabet soup of bureaucracies.” “For years, unelected bureaucrats have relied on judicial deference to expand their own authority beyond what Congress ever intended,” said Senator Grassley. “This has weakened our system of checks and balances and created a recipe for regulatory overreach. The Constitution’s separation of powers makes clear that it is the responsibility of Congress, as the People’s representative, to make the law. And it’s the job of the courts – not the bureaucracy – to interpret the law. This bill helps to reassert those clear lines between the branches. By doing so, it makes the government more accountable to the People and takes a strong step toward reining in the regulators in any administration.” “The regulatory state in our country has spiraled out of control,” said Representative Ratcliffe.“By usurping the constitutional powers granted to the Judicial Branch, unelected bureaucrats have effectively formulated their own ‘Fourth Branch’ of government, implementing countless rules and regulations – that hold the force of law – without accountability to the American people. This problem has gotten worse over the past few decades thanks to the current precedent that courts should, in many cases, defer to agencies’ interpretation of federal laws and even the regulations that they author, if deemed ‘ambiguous.’ I’m proud to be working with my Senate colleagues to overturn the court cases that are allowing this to continue, so we can restore the proper separation of powers set forth by the Constitution.” Background: Under the Supreme Court’s holding in Chevron U.S.A. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, courts must defer to an administrative agency’s interpretation of a statute so long as the statute is “ambiguous” and the agency’s reading is “permissible.” This has been commonly known as Chevron deference. Similarly, under so-called Auer (or Seminole Rock) deference, “the ultimate criterion” for courts’ interpretation of ambiguous regulation “is the administrative interpretation, which becomes of controlling weight unless it is plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation.” These criteria are incredibly vague and often interpreted quite expansively. This represents the judiciary’s abdication of its proper role under the Constitution, giving agencies the power to stretch their authorities well beyond what Congress (and the agencies themselves) established and undermining a central purpose of the Constitution. The end result for the regulated public is more heavy-handed regulation, less predictability, and dimmed hopes for meaningful agency accountability to the law.The Separation of Powers Restoration Act amends the Administrative Procedure Act to require that courts must decide for themselves “all relevant questions of law, including the interpretation of constitutional and statutory provisions, and rules made by agencies.” The bill further establishes that if “the reviewing court determines that a statutory or regulatory provision relevant to its decision contains a gap or ambiguity, the court shall not interpret that gap or ambiguity as an implicit delegation to the agency of legislative rule making authority and shall not rely on such gap or ambiguity as a justification either for interpreting agency authority expansively or for deferring to the agency’s interpretation on the question of law.”This bill passed the House of Representatives in 2017 with bipartisan support by a margin of 238 to 183 as Title II of H.R. 5.On Wednesday, March 27, 2019, the Supreme Court heard oral argument in Kisor v. Wilkie on whether the Auer case should be overruled. Numerous Supreme Court justices have criticized aspects of these deference doctrines:-Justice Scalia: “[F]or no good reason, we have been giving agencies the authority to say what their rules mean, under the harmless-sounding banner of ‘defer[ring] to an agency’s interpretation of its own regulations.’”-Justice Thomas: “[Seminole Rock] undermines our obligation to provide a judicial check on the other branches, and it subjects regulated parties to precisely the abuses that the Framers sought to prevent.” -Justice Gorsuch: “Chevron seems no less than a judge-made doctrine for the abdication of the judicial duty. . . . Transferring the job of saying what the law is from the judiciary to the executive unsurprisingly invites the very sort of due process (fair notice) and equal protection concerns the framers knew would arise if the political branches intruded on judicial functions.”-Justice Kavanaugh: “In many ways, Chevron is nothing more than a judicially orchestrated shift of power from Congress to the Executive Branch.” “[T]he Chevron doctrine encourages agency aggressiveness on a large scale. Under the guise of ambiguity, agencies can stretch the meaning of statutes enacted by Congress to accommodate their preferred policy outcomes.”
03.26.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who spent last week touring Nebraska flood damage and helping initial recovery efforts, issued the following statement regarding disaster aid legislation that was released today that expands eligibility for 2019 flood relief. “Nebraskans are resilient and tough. We’re going to rebuild by loving our neighbors and rolling up our sleeves. While the most important work is going to happen at home in our communities, it’s good to have federal help. I’m grateful for the initial down payment in this disaster aid bill. Our state has a long road to recovery, but Nebraskans will get the job done.”
03.25.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after it was announced that Hank Bounds would be stepping down as president of the University of Nebraska system."Hank is a good man, and he led by rolling up his sleeves and getting to work. A lot of states have schools that they’re proud of, but no state is more closely associated with its great university system than Nebraska. The University of Nebraska has an incredible legacy of service at home and around the world. The partnership between our state and the university’s faculty, administration, donors, agriculture extension, alumni, and students is something truly special. We’re a small state, but our university already punches way above its weight and we have the potential to be one of the greatest university systems in the nation. The University of Nebraska is our state’s greatest resource for keeping young talent here and pioneering new opportunities through hard work. Our future is bright."
03.21.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the President’s emergency declaration for Nebraska.“I'm grateful for the President's expedited decision. We’ve got a long recovery ahead, but Nebraskans are going to get the job done. Our people don’t quit — I've met multiple parents who have lost their homes, but as soon as they get to shelters their families start to organize volunteers. That’s who we are. Nebraskans have grit, and we’re grateful for the support of our federal partners as we work to rebuild our communities.”
03.20.2019	Please contact the Nebraska Emergency Management Agency at 402-471-7421 for information regarding your local emergency manager. For information on local shelters, health resources, and more please visit their website here. The Nebraska Department of Agriculture has compiled the following information for farmers and ranchers. For more information click here. Click here for information on Nebraska’s current road and highway conditions. The American Red Cross is operating or partnering with 9 shelters in Nebraska to assist those who have been displaced from their homes due to flooding. The shelters are located in: SnyderSnyder Village Auditorium, 203 Ash Street BellevueCalvary Christian Church, 10100 Cedar Island Road ColumbusEast Central District Health Department, 4321 41st Avenue Saint EdwardSt. Edward Fire and Rescue, 1302 Hwy 39 Wood River Rural High School13800 W Wood River Road P.O. Box 518 ElkhornElkhorn Middle School, 3200 Military Avenue FremontFremont Middle School, 540 Johnson RoadFirst Lutheran Church, 3200 Military AvenueSalem Lutheran Church, 401 E. Military Avenue Anyone who has been displaced from their home is urged to come to a shelter. Volunteers are on hand to provide a safe place to stay, a place to sleep, a hot meal and referrals to partner agencies. Anyone evacuating to a shelter should bring essential items for each member of the family, including: Prescriptions and emergency medications Foods that meet unusual dietary requirements Identification to show residence is in affected area and important personal documents Extra clothing, pillows, blankets, hygiene supplies and other comfort items Supplies needed for children and infants, such as diapers, formula and toys Special items for family members who are elderly or disabled
03.14.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement in response to the hazardous weather conditions across Nebraska.“We’re tough and resilient people, and the most important thing right now for Nebraskans is to listen to the warnings of emergency management personnel. Governor Ricketts and I have been in contact about the current weather conditions in our state. The Governor and our emergency and first responders are working overtime. Be prepared and stay safe.”The following information is from the Nebraska Emergency Management Agency (NEMA):Safety and Security: Evacuations are taking place throughout the state at this time. Travel is extremely dangerous with conditions changing rapidly. Non-essential travel is not advised.Transportation: Road conditions continue to deteriorate across the state. Information on road closures can be found on the Nebraska 511 map at https://www.511.nebraska.gov. Nebraska 511 provides the most up-to-date travel conditions. Nebraska 511 can be accessed through the 511 smartphone app or by dialing 511.The Nebraska State Patrol (NSP) Highway Helpline is available 24 hours per day for motorists in need of assistance. Drivers can reach NSP by dialing *55 from any cell phone or 911 in an emergency.Troopers with the Nebraska State Patrol have been working with local officials and Nebraska Game and Parks officers on water rescues overnight and into the morning. NSP has deployed two light armored vehicles (LAV) to assist with water rescue in north central and northeast Nebraska. The LAVs are able to reach places that a normal rescue vehicle cannot.Troopers are also being repositioned from less affected areas to the more affected areas to assist with flood response. Additional troopers have also been called in from required days off to assist in these emergency situations. Troopers in the western part of the state responded to several stranded vehicles last night, mostly on local roads. All state roads and I-80 remain closed in the Nebraska panhandle.
03.14.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding his vote against Speaker Pelosi’s politically motivated resolution, and urging the Senate to work to restore Congress’ powers through Senator Mike Lee’s ARTICLE ONE Act. “We have an obvious crisis at the border — everyone who takes an honest look at the spiking drug and human trafficking numbers knows this — and the President has a legal path to a rapid response under the National Emergencies Act of 1976 (NEA). I think that law is overly broad and I want to fix it, but at present Nancy Pelosi doesn't, so I am therefore voting against her politically motivated resolution. As a constitutional conservative, I believe that the NEA currently on the books should be narrowed considerably. That’s why I’m an original sponsor of Senator Lee's legislation, and it is why I have repeatedly gone to the White House to seek support for NEA reform.“I urge both the Majority and Minority Leaders to assist in moving this legislation through committee and quickly to the Floor for debate, negotiation, and passage through the full Senate. If this Congress is serious in its concerns about decades of executive overreach, we will devote ourselves to systematically reclaiming powers Congress has been imprudently granting to presidents of both parties for far too long. Today’s resolution doesn’t fix anything because the root problem here can't be fixed with bare-knuckled politics but rather with a deliberate debate about the powers that Congress has been giving away and that the Executive has therefore claimed.”
03.07.2019	U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Tim Scott (R-SC) released the following statement after introducing the Education Savings Accounts for Military Families Act of 2019. This legislation creates an opt-in for military families to establish Military Education Savings Accounts (ESAs) to help fund their child’s education and expand access to personalized, high-quality educational experiences.“America fights to win. That takes top-notch talent. Recruitment and retainment are a real component to national security,” said Senator Sasse. “If we’re going to face down global threats with the best and brightest, we need to make it easy for those moms and dads to take care of their families. Sadly, making the decision to defend our freedom sometimes means that servicemembers’ kids miss out on the best education options available. That’s unacceptable. Our bill helps fix this by letting military families customize their kids’ education, and by empowering them to find the opportunities that best fit their needs. Members of our armed services deserve the best we’ve got, and so do their kids.”“Right now, children of military families have limited access to high-quality education because of their unique living situations,” said Senator Cotton. “This bill encourages service families to save for education and gives them the flexibility to spend those savings so their children’s education can be tailored to their own needs and circumstances.”“The most essential part of a service member’s support system is their family. Military families provide a firm foundation for their loved ones who sacrifice daily to preserve and protect our nation. It is imperative that we do everything we can to ensure that the children of our service members are taken care of and have the opportunities to receive a quality education," said Senator Scott. “As a kid who lived on an Air Force base, I know how important it is for parents to have options for their children's education. I am proud to once again introduce the Military Education Savings Act alongside my friends Senators Ben Sasse and Tom Cotton to help military children reach their fullest potential.”Background:In recent years, multiple branches of the armed services have struggled with recruitment and retention rates — just last year, the U.S. Army fell 6,528 recruits below its yearly goal, and the U.S. Marine Corps faced what officials have called “uncharacteristically high” turnover rates. Over one-third of military parents say that dissatisfaction with their children’s schooling was a significant factor in their decision to remain in or leave the military.This legislation would amend create an opt-in for military families who choose to pursue alternative educational options to apply for an education savings account worth $6,000 annually.ESAs are parent-driven accounts that allow families to customize their children’s educational experiences. The would allow families to tailor their children’s educational experience to their specific needs, with eligible uses of account funds including cost of attendance at a private institution, online learning programs, private tutoring, tuition and fees for college preparatory programs, and educational services and therapies, among many others. Any unused funds would rollover from year to year, and funds leftover after a student’s high school graduation can be used to finance attendance at an institution of higher education, costs associated with vocation programs, and fees for state-recognized industry certification exams.
02.28.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after cosponsoring the Ensuring Lawful Collection of Hidden Assets to Provide Order (EL CHAPO) Act.“El Chapo is a cartel drug lord who murdered and smuggled his way into becoming a billionaire. He had no problem leaving death, addiction, and tragedy in his wake -- on both sides of the border. El Chapo is now a convicted criminal. He already has to forfeit his assets to the federal government -- we should use them to secure our southern border and make El Chapo pay for the wall.”Background: The EL CHAPO Act would reserve any amounts forfeited to the United States Government by El Chapo (Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera) for security measures along the Southern border, including the completion of a border wall.
02.25.2019	Infanticide ban receives bipartisan majority support, fails to break Democratic filibuster Video of Senator Sasse’s remarks is available by clicking here or on the image above. Today, despite receiving the support of a bipartisan majority of the United States Senate, Senator Sasse’s Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act failed to receive 60 votes to break a Democratic filibuster. The final roll call vote was 53-44. “I want to ask each and every one of my colleagues whether we're okay with infanticide,” said Senator Sasse. “This language is blunt. I recognize that and it's too blunt for many people in this body. But frankly, that is what we're talking about here today. Infanticide is what the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is actually about. Are we a country that protects babies that are alive, born outside the womb after having survived a botched abortion? That is what this is about. Are we a country that says it’s okay to actively allow that baby to die — which is the current position of federal law? That’s the question before us, plain and simple… Despite opposition and setbacks, despite some strange rhetoric about this bill over the course of the last week, I am hopeful in the long term. Deep down, each of us knows that every member of our human family ought to be protected, and deserves to be cherished and loved. The love we see every day in the eyes of moms and dads for their newborn babies is an inescapable reminder of that fundamental truth. Love is stronger than power.”Sasse’s legislation, sponsored by half of the Senate, protects newborns that are born alive after botched abortions by requiring the same degree of care that would be provided to any other newborn at the same stage of development. Full remarks of Senator Sasse’s remarks on the floor tonight is available here: Madam President, I just listened to the Senior Senator from New York, my friend from the gym and the Minority Leader, deliver some summaries of what he says is in the bill before us and he implored this body, he implored people watching on C-SPAN to read the bill and they would find that all these terrible things are in the bill. I see that the Minority Leader has to leave the floor now, but humbly I would urge him to come back and show us where any of what he just said is in this bill, is in this bill. What he said wasn't true. I rise today for a simple purpose, Madam President. I want to ask each and every one of my colleagues whether we're okay with infanticide.This language is blunt. I recognize that and it's too blunt for many people in this body. But frankly, that is what we're talking about here today. Infanticide is what the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is actually about. Are we a country that protects babies that are alive, born outside the womb after having survived a botched abortion? That is what this is about. Are we a country that says it’s okay to actively allow that baby to die — which is the current position of federal law? That’s the question before us, plain and simple.Here are the facts: We know that some babies, especially late in gestation, survive attempted abortions. We know, too, that some of these babies are left to die, left to die. No federal protections exist to shield them from this ugly fate. And only some states have protections on their books, and we've seen in our national discourse over the last month and a half a few states moving, in different ways, but to undo protections that some of these babies have had at the state level. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is trying to right this obvious wrong. The bill’s terms are simple: A child born alive during a botched abortion would be given the same level of care that would be provided to any other baby born that same gestational stage. That’s it. This bill isn't about abortion. I'm pro-life. I'm unapologetically pro-life, but this bill is not actually about anything that limits abortion. This bill doesn't have anything to do with Roe v. Wade. This bill is about something else. What this bill does is try to secure basic rights, equal rights for babies that are born and are outside the womb. That's what we're talking about. Over the course of the next hour, as this is debated on the floor people are going to say a whole bunch of other things, please bring the text of the bill to the floor when you do it and show us where there is anything about limiting abortion in this bill. This bill is exclusively about protecting babies that have already been born and are outside the womb. Every baby deserves a fighting chance. Whether that 24-week-old baby fighting for air and fighting for life having just taken her first breaths is at an abortion clinic where she survived a botched abortion, or whether or not she's in a delivery room at the local hospital, both of those babies are equally deserving of care, protection, and humane treatment. And our laws should treat both of these human beings as babies, because they're babies, they've been born and they're outside the womb.This really shouldn't be controversial, Madam President. In fact, my colleagues actually talk this way all the time. This place feels like about a third of the people here are currently running for president, so I'd like to just quote a few of them over the course of the last couple months.We ought to "build a country where no one is forgotten and no one is left behind.” Amen to that.“The people in our society who are most often targeted by predators, are also often the voiceless and the vulnerable.” That's true.Another said, offered a promise to, “fight for other kids, people’s kids', as hard as I fight for my own kids.”And just last week, our colleague from Vermont, announced his campaign by saying, "The mark of a great nation is how it treats its most vulnerable people.” Bernie Sanders was right.Well, now's the chance tonight in this body to make good on that promise. Now's the chance to protect one of the most vulnerable populations imaginable: tiny defenseless little babies who've just started to breath on that hospital table having just taken their first breath. Or was that all just claptrap for the campaign trail and for soundbites? Or do people mean the stuff that they say around here?Let's put it another way, today's vote is about whether or not you want to take the side of people like Virginia's disgraced Governor, Ralph Northam. Last month, before the news of his hideous yearbook broke, Governor Northam had made clear that a baby born alive during an abortion could and maybe ought to be killed if that's what the parents and the doctors decided they wanted to do after debate. That was his position, he said you should make the baby comfortable, and then there could be a discussion about whether or not you throw that little baby into the trash can. That's what he actually talked about on the radio for a day and a half last month.Governor Northam is disgraceful for a whole host of reasons, but unlike some other people he actually told the truth about what he wants. He wants a society where some people count more than others and other people are worth less than others. He wants a society where some people can be pushed aside if they're inconvenient. In reality, that is what we're voting on today. Some of my colleagues want to write into our law a kind of permanent exception, every human being should be treated and protected from cruelty and offered - protected from inhuman treatment, unless they're a human being that came into the world through a botched abortion. Then you can decide later you want to kill them. Madam president, tonight, what we're going to vote on in the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is the chance to see whether we're serious when people say around here that they want to protect the innocent. They want to speak up for the voiceless. They want to defend the defenseless. Tonight, we're going to have the opportunity to do exactly that. We can come to the aid of innocent, voiceless, defenseless little babies who've just taken their first breaths by protecting him and her from mistreatment and neglect. This should be frankly the easiest vote we ever cast in this body. But the prospect of what we're voting on here is actually threatening to one of the most powerful interest groups in America. The abortion industry has taken to attacking this bill wildly over the course of the last two weeks. Even though, as we've made clear repeatedly, and as the text of this bill makes indisputably clear, this bill has nothing to do with abortion itself. Nothing in this bill changes the slightest letter of Roe v. Wade. Nothing touches abortion access in this bill. This bill is about living and breathing babies that are alive outside the womb. That's all the text of this bill does.But Planned Parenthood and NARAL and their allies feel threatened by a bill to protect alive, out-of-the-womb babies. In other words: Unlike this legislation, Planned Parenthood and others refuse to draw a line between abortion and infanticide. That's what their lobbying the last week has shown. That should tell us something about what these groups are really about.What they’re about is a society built on power: the power of some people to decide whether other people get to live or die.And this bill is a stumbling block to anyone who thinks that some lives are less valuable than others. This bill is a stumbling block to anyone who thinks that certain human beings should be disposable. This bill is a stumbling block to anyone who thinks that we should be able to quietly rid ourselves of little people who are “inconvenient” or supposedly “unwanted.” They're not unwanted. There are lots and lots and lots of people in every single state in this union lined up waiting to adopt, including kids that have lots of hard life circumstances. In every state, there are waiting lists of people who will take so-called, "unwanted" babies.America is a country built on a different principle. Ours is a country dedicated to the proposition that all men and women, all boys and girls are created equal — even the littlest, even if they happen to come into the world in the most horrible of circumstances, even if they are crippled or inconvenient or, apparently for a moment, unwanted. Ours is a country that recognizes the fundamental, inextinguishable dignity of every human being, regardless of race or sex or creed or ability. As a country, we have struggled for two centuries — sometimes at enormous cost — to extend these basic human rights to more and more of our fellow citizens.Today’s vote is an opportunity to continue that work.So, let me say, Madam President, by way of closing: Despite opposition and setbacks, despite some strange rhetoric about this bill over the course of the last week, I am hopeful in the long term. Deep down, each of us knows that every member of our human family ought to be protected, and deserves to be cherished and loved. And the love we see every day in the eyes of moms and dads for their newborn babies is an inescapable reminder of that fundamental truth. Love is stronger than power. Thank you, Madam President.
02.21.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Oversight Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding today’s federal court holding that the Department of Justice violated the rights of Jeffrey Epstein’s victims. Earlier this month, at Sasse’s insistence, the Department of Justice opened an investigation into its handling of Epstein, who ran an international child sex trafficking ring. “Jeffrey Epstein is a monster and his victims deserve justice,” said Senator Sasse. “I'm relieved that the court agrees that it was wrong to hide this child rapist’s pathetically soft deal from his victims, in violation of federal law. The fact that it’s taken this long to get this far is heartbreaking and infuriating. The Department of Justice should use this opportunity to reopen its non-prosecution agreement so that Epstein and anyone else who abused these children are held accountable.”Background: On page 26 of the opinion, the court notes that it has previously held that “the [Crime Victims’ Rights Act] authorizes the rescission or ‘reopening’ of a prosecutorial agreement, including a non-prosecution agreement, reached in violation of a prosecutor’s conferral obligations under the statute,” citing previous case law.
02.20.2019	Senator Ben Sasse, Wheaties Lover U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a leading advocate for Nebraska agriculture, was named the National Wheat Leader of the Year by the National Association of Wheat Growers. This is the wheat industry’s top award. The Wheat Leader of the Year receives a customized Wheaties Box."Farmers and ranchers work their butts off to feed the world and represent the best of America. I’m proud to stand up for them. That’s why I am honored to receive the Wheat Leader of the Year award. It’s a big deal – I just wish this box actually had Wheaties in it." -Senator Ben Sasse "We were happy to see the National Association of Wheat Growers vote for and name Senator Sasse the National Wheat Leader of the Year because he gets the challenges we’re facing and makes sure our voice is heard. He’s an unrivaled champion of trade on behalf of our farmers and always works to make sure that wheat growers have a seat at the table — whether it’s meetings with Mexican Ambassador Geronimo Gutierrez in Washington, D.C., or hosting a round table discussion on trade in Omaha with Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade Ted McKinney. He’s a true agvocate, and we’re glad our fellow wheat states recognized this as well.” -Brian Schafer, Nebraska Wheat Growers Association Board Member and Wheat Farmer from Culbertson, NE
02.14.2019	Sasse: “A lot of Senators spend a lot of time telling people how they fight for the little guy. Well, here’s the chance for them to prove it.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the author of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, issued the following statement after Majority Leader Mitch McConnell set up a vote on Sasse’s legislation to require that doctors provide care to newborns who survive botched abortions. The vote will take place on Monday, February 25. “I want to thank the Majority Leader for scheduling this vote so that every American can know where their Senator stands on the issue of infanticide. A lot of Senators spend a lot of time telling people how they fight for the little guy. Well, here’s the chance for them to prove it. We’re going to have a vote on the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act and everyone is going to have to put their name by their vote. It’s cowardly for a politician to say they’ll fight for the little guy but only if the little guy isn’t an actual seven-pound baby who’s fighting for life. It shouldn’t be hard to protect newborn babies – let’s pass this legislation.” Background: Senator Sasse’s Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would protect newborns that survive botched abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. Last week, Senator Sasse asked for unanimous consent to pass the legislation. Some Democrats blocked the request. Sasse's legislation simply requires that, when a botched abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. Currently, federal law does not adequately protect a born child who survives an abortion. On January 22, 2019, New York repealed protections (section 4164 of the state's public health law) for an infant born alive during an abortion.On January 30, Virginia Governor Ralph Northam endorsed infanticide while discussing an extreme late-term abortion bill being considered in the state House of Delegates. After trying to walk-back his comments, Governor Northam doubled-down on January 31, declaring "I don’t have any regrets."
02.14.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting against the $300 billion spending bill. “This is a crappy way to spend taxpayers’ money. Here’s how broken the process was: This monster spends more than $300 billion over 1,100 pages. That’s $270 million a page. No senator is even pretending to have read this dang swamp thing.”
02.13.2019	Senators Sasse, Ernst, and Grassley, Midland Senators serving on the Senate Judiciary Committee, are urging William Barr, the next Attorney General of the United States, to prioritize his review of Sarah’s Law. “Sarah’s Law is a common-sense proposal and the next Attorney General ought to commit to working with us to make this a top priority for the Department of Justice. This important legislation needs to go to the President for his signature. We’re working hard to make sure that happens here in the Senate — and I hope General Barr makes a review of the legislation a priority in his first 60 days. Sarah’s family deserves justice, and criminals like Edwin Mejia should be in jail, not on the run,” said Senator Ben Sasse, member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. “Sarah Root’s story is one of tragedy and injustice. While we’re working to pass Sarah’s Law in Congress, it’s imperative we have the commitment of the Department of Justice and our next Attorney General to make implementation of this commonsense legislation a top priority. We have an obligation to the Root family, and to the American people, to ensure that no person falls victim to this injustice again,” said Senator Joni Ernst, member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. “Local and federal authorities must cooperate to ensure no victim and family is deprived of justice. Sarah Root had her whole life in front of her, but it was taken away by someone who shouldn’t have even been in the country. Sadly, that tragedy is not an isolated case. Many innocent Americans have been seriously injured, and in some cases killed, because of the actions of criminal illegal aliens. Once he’s confirmed, I expect Attorney General Barr to work with us to finally enact Sarah’s Law and ensure justice is served for her family and any family like hers,” said Senator Chuck Grassley, member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Sarah's Law would require federal law enforcement to detain illegal immigrants criminally charged with killing or seriously injuring another person. Edwin Mejia was living illegally in the United States and killed Sarah Root in a drunk driving incident. Mejia then fled and remains on ICE's most wanted list. Text of the letter can be found here or below: Dear General Barr, Congratulations on your recent nomination to serve again as Attorney General of the United States. As members of the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, we write to you today to follow up on a line of questioning by Senator Ernst during your recent confirmation hearing. As Senator Ernst related, in January of 2016 an illegal alien, Edwin Mejia, was street racing while intoxicated in Omaha, Nebraska when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of another vehicle. Inside the other vehicle was a young woman named Sarah Root. Ms. Root, a Council Bluffs, Iowa native who had graduated college just hours before, was rushed to the hospital, where she died from her injuries. In light of Mejia’s past encounters with law enforcement that included a skipped court hearing and a subsequent warrant issued for his arrest, Omaha police requested that the Obama administration detain Mejia, but it refused to do so, allowing Mejia to disappear. He remains at large, and Ms. Root’s grieving family and friends have been deprived of justice. To address this case and other such tragedies that have befallen the Midlands and the rest of the country, we introduced Sarah’s Law, which amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to require the detention of illegal aliens who have been charged in the United States with a crime that resulted in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. In your hearing, you described our legislation as “a very commonsensical bill and something that [you] would certainly be inclined to support.” We find your statement greatly encouraging. We write to you today to spell out steps we urge you take in regards to this critical issue: -If confirmed, please prioritize review of this legislation by the appropriate components of the Department to be completed within the first 60 days of your time in office; -Should the Department under your leadership determine that it can support this legislation, please commit to working with us to enact it into law; and -Please commit to conduct a review within 180 days of Department policies to determine steps that the Department has taken and could take in the future to effectuate the goals of Sarah’s Law and Executive Order 13768. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact our staff at (202) 224-4224, (202) 224-3254, and (202) 224-3744. Sincerely, Ben SasseJoni Ernst Chuck Grassley
02.07.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, voted for Brian Buescher’s nomination to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska. Mr. Buescher’s nomination now advances to the full Senate. “It’s great news for Nebraska that Brian is one step closer to being confirmed by the Senate,” said Sasse. “Today’s vote was also another important rebuke of the kinds of anti-Catholic questions thrown at Brian from some Judiciary Committee Democrats. This is a big win for Nebraska — and for religious liberty. The full Senate should give Brian a vote soon.” Background:Last November, Sasse chaired and introduced Mr. Buescher at his nomination hearing. Last month, after Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats questioned Mr. Buescher for his membership in the Knights of Columbus, the world’s largest fraternal Catholic service organization, Sasse led a Senate resolution to reaffirm religious liberty and condemn religious tests for federal officials. The Senate unanimously adopted the resolution. Mr. Buescher is a Nebraska native. He graduated from Sandy Creek High School, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, and Georgetown University. He has spent his entire legal career practicing in Nebraska — accruing a broad range of experience from representing Nebraska farmers to protecting victims of domestic violence — and currently leads the agriculture litigation team for Kutak Rock LLP, where he works in the firm’s Omaha office. Brian is married and the proud father of five children.
02.06.2019	Sasse: “The victims of Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring deserve this investigation – and so do the American people and the members of law enforcement who work to put these kinds of monsters behind bars.” Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, announced that the Department of Justice has responded to his multiple requests and opened an investigation into its handling of the prosecution of child-rapist Jeffrey Epstein.“Jeffrey Epstein is a child rapist and there’s not a single mom or dad in America who shouldn’t be horrified by the fact that he received a pathetically soft sentence,” said Senator Sasse today.“The victims of Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring deserve this investigation – and so do the American people and the members of law enforcement who work to put these kinds of monsters behind bars. Parents should be grateful for the men and women at the DOJ who are committed to transparency and accountability and for the soon-to-be Attorney General who is committed to pursuing justice.” Background: The Department of Justice’s letter to Senator Sasse (available here) says, in part: “[Department of Justice Office of Professional Responsibility] has now opened an investigation into allegations that Department attorneys may have committed professional misconduct in the manner in which the Epstein criminal matter was resolved. OPR will thoroughly investigate the allegations of misconduct that have been raised and, consistent with its practice, will share its results with you at the conclusion of its investigation as appropriate.”Beginning on December 3, 2018, Sasse has repeatedly pushed the DOJ to investigate the sweetheart deal that Epstein received.On January 15, 2019, during his confirmation hearing, William Barr, the President’s nominee for Attorney General, publicly committed to making sure that the DOJ responded to Senator Sasse’s questions into the Epstein case and that they would prioritize the prosecution of sex-trafficking.
02.06.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) released the following statement after House Democrats blocked Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s unanimous consent request to pass the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Sasse introduced the Senate’s companion legislation. “Yesterday, Speaker Pelosi took the President of the nation’s largest abortion business to the State of the Union address and today she’s blocking legislation that makes it illegal to leave a newborn baby to die. This is morally repugnant. Passing the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act shouldn’t be hard - there are only two sides to this debate: you’re defending babies or you’re defending infanticide.” Background: Senator Sasse’s Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would protect newborns that survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. Monday night, Senator Sasse asked for unanimous consent to pass the legislation. Democrats blocked the request. Sasse's legislation requires that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. It also requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. Currently, federal law does not adequately protect a born child who survives an abortion.
02.05.2019	"I’m glad to share the State of the Union with Noah, and his powerful story with our state." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse announced his guest for tonight’s State of the Union address. Sasse’s guest, high school athlete Noah Lambrecht, has inspired Nebraskans across the state. “Noah is a remarkable kid and a great Nebraskan,” said Sasse. “He just doesn’t stop. One foot in front of another. He’s got grit, heart, and a contagious attitude. Noah’s story makes Nebraska proud — and that’s why I wanted to invite him to the State of the Union. We should also praise his teammates and the competitors who came along Noah’s side to finish races with him — this is what community is about and the type of stuff that should make all of us proud to be Nebraskans. “I’m glad to share the State of the Union with Noah, and his powerful story with our state.” Background: Noah was born in Chicago with major heart issues and was adopted by Nebraskans as an infant. Despite having multiple open-heart surgeries, asthma, and a pacemaker, Noah competed on McCool Junction’s High School Cross Country team. Because of his medical history, Noah often was the last to finish races. Soon, his teammates and competitors — runners who had already completed the course — would join alongside Noah to finish the race with him. Each member can invite only one guest to attend the President’s address to a joint session of Congress. Sasse’s office has also arranged a tour of the U.S. Capitol for Noah and his family, as well as, a tour of the White House. Previously, Senator Sasse has invited Nebraska State Trooper John Lewis, Paxton farmer Jon Holzfaster, and Dr. Philip Smith, the Medical Director of the UNMC Biocontainment Unit.
02.04.2019	Video of Senator Sasse’s request is available here or by clicking on the image above Washington, D.C. — Tonight, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) asked for unanimous consent to pass the legislation banning infanticide, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Democrats blocked the request. Sasse's efforts follow Virginia Governor Ralph Northam's defense of infanticide and New York's recent repeal of state-level protections for abortion survivors. Today's transcript is available here: Mr. President, thank you. In a few minutes, the United States Senate is going to have an opportunity to condemn infanticide. 100 United States Senators are going to have an opportunity to unanimously say the most basic thing imaginable: and that is that it’s wrong to kill a little newborn baby. Every Senator will have the opportunity to stand for human dignity – to stand for the belief that, in this country, all of us are created equal. Because if that equality means anything, surely it means that infanticide is wrong. Frankly, this shouldn’t be hard. Politicians come to this floor every single day and talk about how they care for the poorest, or the weakest, or the most marginalized members of our society. In recent weeks I’ve heard it stated this way in powerful, eloquent, and from some ambitious Senators, very clear terms about human dignity. One of my distinguished colleagues recently, on the campaign trail, declared rightly that, “The people in our society who are most often targeted by predators are also most often the voiceless and vulnerable.” Amen to that. Another Democratic Senator seeking the Presidency said they seek to "build a country where no one is forgotten, and no one is left behind.” Amen to that. Giving words of hope and encouragement, a third Senator reminded us that, “no matter where you live in America …no matter where you live in America, you deserve a path to opportunity.” Amen to that. A fourth continued that this individual was committed to “fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for their own.” And yet again, Amen. But, sadly, in the last week, these beautiful and inspiring words have been choked out by ugliness and the cruelty from another public official. In Virginia, disgraced Governor Ralph Northam, tarnished the American idea of equality under law, he betrayed the universal truth of human dignity, and he turned the stomachs of civilized people not just in this country but in every country on earth. Governor Northam endorsed infanticide. Here's what he said, “The infant would be kept comfortable. The infant would be resuscitated, if that’s what the mother and the family desired. And then a discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother.” This was the quote. That the infant would be resuscitated if that's what the mom and the doctors wanted to do and then they could have a debate about what to do next. He was literally talking about allowing space and time for a discussion about infanticide. No euphemisms. No weasel-words. Infants could kept comfortable and resuscitated. And also, baby girls left cold and alone to die. Just a few years ago the abortion lobby was really clear in its talk in hoping that abortion would be ‘safe, and legal, but rare.' This was the slogan. Abortion would be 'safe, legal, and rare,' Now we’re talking about keeping the baby comfortable while the doctor have a debate about infanticide. That is what we’re talking about here on the floor tonight. We’re not talking about second trimester abortion, we're not having some big complicated discussion about a mothers reproductive freedom, as important as all those debates are. We’re actually talking about babies that have been born. The only debate on the floor tonight is about infanticide. The abortion industry’s PR army couldn’t defend this. Many in the national media decided to try to overlooked it. But none of us in this body can escape it. What we’re talking about on the Senate floor tonight is infanticide. And instead of saying he misspoke, instead of offering an apology, the governor of Virginia decided to doubled down on ugliness and cruelty. This isn’t about clumps of cells. This is fourth trimester abortion. That’s actually what we’re talking about here tonight. Governor Northam is a disgraced coward and he has such an abysmally view of human dignity that he couldn’t bring himself to say this basic truth: it’s wrong to let little babies who've been born die. This isn’t about Republicans or Democrats. We're way beyond that Everyone in the Senate ought to be able to say unequivocally that the little baby deserves life. That she has rights, and that killing her is wrong. Tonight, every member of this body has that chance. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act prohibits exactly the kind of infanticide that Governor Northam was endorsing. That’s it. That’s what the legislation is about. It’s based on the simple idea that every baby deserves a fighting chance. Its a simple idea that every human being is an image bearer, even the weakest and the most marginalized among us are no less human, and every one of us has a moral obligation to defend the defenseless. It’s my understanding that some of my Democratic colleagues are prepared to object tonight and I humbly say that I don’t understand why. I beg you from the bottom of my heart not to do so. Please don’t betray the ideals that have been so eloquently expressed. Please don’t reduce truths to and empty campaign slogan. Please don’t take the principle of dignity and equality this cheaply. There are just two sides of the debate on the floor tonight: you’re either for babies or you’re defending infanticide. That is actually what the legislation is that’s before us. Please do not block this legislation. Please don’t let Governor Northam define you. Don’t let an extremist pro-abortion lobby and pledge hold you hostage. Please don’t leave innocent babies to die. Please don’t protect infanticide. So Mr. President I ask unanimous consent that the committee on the Judiciary would be discharged from further consideration of S. 130 and that the Senate would proceed to the immediate consideration of that. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be considered third for a third time and passed and that the motion to re-consider be considered made and laid upon the table.
01.31.2019	On the third anniversary of Sarah Root's death, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), along with Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), and 11 additional colleagues, reintroduced Sarah's Law. Edwin Mejia, was living illegally in the United States and killed Sarah Root in a drunk driving incident. Mejia then fled and remains on ICE's most wanted list. “Edwin Mejia’s mugshot shouldn’t be on a most wanted poster — Edwin Mejia should be in jail, serving hard time for the life he took and the pain he left behind,” said Sasse. “Sarah’s Law is common-sense legislation that Sarah and her family deserve to have signed into law. Congress should waste no time sending this legislation to the President’s desk for his signature.” Background: Sarah's Law would allow federal law enforcement to detain illegal immigrants criminally charged with killing or seriously injuring another person. January 31, 2016: Eswin Mejia is drunk street racing down L Street in Omaha when he crashes into Ms. Sarah Root’s vehicle. Mejia is booked for DUI and reckless driving resulting in serious bodily injury. February 26, 2016: Mejia fails to appear in court related to the January 31 accident. February 29, 2016: Sasse demands answers from ICE Director Sarah Saldana on why Eswin Mejia was not taken into custody. March 15, 2016: Sasse grills ICE Director Saldana for answers at a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. The administration admits Mejia was a “threat to public safety.” Director Saldana commits to responding to all of Sasse’s questions by March 25th. March 24, 2016: Sasse, along with Senators from Nebraska and Iowa, press ICE Director Saldana pressing for clarifications regarding her contradictory testimony to Congress. March 29, 2016: After ICE fails to respond, Sasse increases public pressure. March 30, 2016: After pressure from Sasse, ICE places Mejia on the Ten Most Wanted List. Sasse makes it clear that “Mr. Mejia should not need to be on this list — he should be in jail.” April 4, 2016: ICE Director Sarah Saldana replies to Sasse’s February 29 letter, but provides no substantive answers. Sasse elevates the inquiry to a member of the President’s Cabinet, DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. April 26, 2016: Senators from Nebraska and Iowa send a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell demanding answers about the department’s handling of Eswin Mejia when he was first taken into custody in 2013, and released to his brother who was also in the country illegally. May 7, 2016: DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson admits to Sasse that his agency should have detained Mejia. June 29, 2016: Sasse, along with senators from Nebraska and Iowa, introduce “Sarah’s Law” to require mandatory detention by ICE of any illegal aliens charged with killing an American.
01.31.2019	Sasse moves to expedite consideration of Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act Video of the Senator's speech can be found here or by clicking on the image above. Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse spoke on the Senate floor about his Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Sasse has taken a dual-track approach to having the Senate consider the legislation, both under Unanimous Consent next Monday and under the Rule 14 process with a future roll call vote. Text of the Senator's speech is below:This place fancies itself the world's greatest deliberative body, but we would be deceiving ourselves if we ignored the biggest debate that's been happening in America over the last 36 hours. A public elected official -- the Governor of one of the 50 states -- has been defending a practice that is morally repugnant. The Governor of Virginia has been defending a practice that is repugnant to civilized people across the entire world. Here's just one of the ugly nuggets from Ralph Northam, the Governor of Virginia. "If the mother is in labor the infant would be delivered. The infant would be kept comfortable. The infant would be resuscitated, if that's what the mother and the family desired and then a discussion would ensue between the physician and the mother." Let's be really clear about what we're talking about here. We're talking about fourth trimester abortion - or what anyone in the normal world calls infanticide. That's what we're talking about and the Governor of Virginia has been defending this all day yesterday and again today. Going out and trying to equivocate and qualify and then double down and again say he wants to defend his practice - which is infanticide. Let's be clear what we're talking about. We're talking about killing a baby that's been born. We're not talking about some euphemism, we're not talking about a clump of cells. We're talking about a little baby girl whose been born and is on a table in a hospital or a medical facility and then a decision or a debate would be had about whether or not you could kill that little baby. We're talking about the most vulnerable among us and we have a public official in America out there again and again defending a practice. This is infanticide that we're talking about. This should be so far beyond any political consideration. We're talking about a little baby. A baby with dignity. An image bearer. We're talking about a tiny life that has done nothing wrong to warrant being left to die cold and alone on a table. Everyone in the Senate ought to be able to say unequivocally that killing that little baby is wrong. This doesn't take any political courage. And, if you can't say that, if there's a member of this body that can't say that, there may be lots of work you can do in the world but you shouldn't be here. You should get the heck out of any calling in public life where you pretend to care about the most vulnerable among us. There should be no politics here that are right vs. left, or Republican vs. Democrat. This is the most basic thing you could be talking about. We're talking about a little baby born alive and we have a public official in America defending the idea "Well, you could have a debate about killing her." That's why today, I'm starting a dual-track legislative process to make sure that this body has a clear-eyed look at the issue before us, has a clear-eyed look at this atrocity, and to make sure the 320 million men and women -- who are actually our bosses -- to be sure they have a clear-eyed look at what we stand for. Do we stand with those little, vulnerable babies in desperate need of care and comfort and support, medical treatment, food? Or do we stand with the comments with the Governor of Virginia over the last two days? Tonight I'm beginning what's know as the Rule 14 Process. It's an expedited procedure for floor consideration of my legislation, "The Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act." And in addition, I want to announce that on Monday night I'm going to be sure that every senator has the opportunity to come to the floor and say who we stand for and what we stand against. So, I want to announce that in addition to the Rule 14 Process that I'm going to initiate just here in a moment, I also want senators to be aware that on Monday evening I'm going to be asking unanimous consent for senators to come to the floor and pass an abortion survivors protection act, an abortion survivors born-alive piece of legislation. I'm going to ask all 100 senators to come to the floor and be against infanticide. This shouldn't be complicated. Therefore Mr. President, I understand that there is a bill at the desk, and I ask for it's first reading. Chair: The clerk will read the title of the bill for the first time. Clerk: S.311: A bill to amend Title 18 United States Code to prohibit a healthcare practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. Sasse: I now ask, Mr. President, for a second reading, and in order to place the bill on the calendar under the provisions of Rule 14, I will object to my own request. Chair: Objection having been heard, the bill will receive its second reading on the next legislative day. Sasse: Thank you Mr. President, and I look forward to the debate in this body on Monday evening. Thank you sir.
01.29.2019	"A lot of Beijing’s so-called ‘private sector’ is just another arm of the corrupt Chinese Communist Party." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement regarding the administration’s new charges against Chinese Telecom giant, Huawei Technologies Company. "A lot of Beijing’s so-called 'private sector' is just another arm of the corrupt Chinese Communist Party. These charges are serious: theft of trade secrets, wire fraud, obstruction of justice. Huawei has posed a threat to U.S. national security for a long time and it is good that the American people, our allies and partners, and most importantly, Xi Jinping, see the details of this investigation."
01.22.2019	By U.S. Senator Ben Sasse Americans are a First Amendment people. The five freedoms in the First Amendment – speech, press, petition, assembly, and religion – are at the heart of who we are. In America we talk, we write, we argue, we march, and we worship without fear. That’s true, too, of people who serve, or desire to serve, in public office. Our Constitution goes so far as to explicitly reject a “religious test” for officeholders. This isn’t a Republican principle. It isn’t a Democratic principle. It’s an American principle. Recently, though, some people seem to have forgotten their Civics 101. Nebraskan Brian Buescher was recently nominated by the President to serve as a federal judge for the district of Nebraska. This is an honor for him, for his family, and for our state. It's a celebration of his career of service, his work ethic, and his integrity. Brian happens to be a Catholic, and he's an active member of the Knights of Columbus, the largest Catholic fraternal service organization in the world. The more than 1.6 million Knights raise millions of dollars for charity and contribute millions of hours of volunteer service here and around the world every year. Like a lot of Nebraska men, Brian joined the Knights of Columbus to give back (and he enjoys a good fish-fry!). There’s nothing headline-worthy here. Brian, like so many Nebraskans, knows how to be a good neighbor. But at Brian's recent confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, one of my Democratic colleagues called the Knights of Columbus an “extreme” organization. Brian was then asked whether he would resign his membership in the Knights of Columbus if he were confirmed to the Federal bench – in order to “avoid the appearance of bias.” Let’s put it bluntly: this is wrong. The clear implication here is that because Brian chooses to live out his faith, and is part of an organization of other people who do the same, he is therefore unfit for federal service. We’ve seen this anti-Catholicism before. It’s the same nasty stuff that John F. Kennedy experienced 60 years ago, when he was campaigning for the presidency. It’s unacceptable, and we can’t ignore it when it crops up. As then-Senator Kennedy reminded Americans: “For while this year it may be a Catholic against whom the finger of suspicion is pointed, in other years it has been, and may someday be again, a Jew, or a Quaker, or a Unitarian, or a Baptist... Today I may be the victim, but tomorrow it may be you, until the whole fabric of our harmonious society is ripped at a time of great national peril.” On January 16, I introduced a resolution asking the U.S. Senate to reaffirm its commitment to religious liberty, and state clearly “that disqualifying a nominee to federal office on the basis of membership in the Knights of Columbus violates the constitution of the United States.” In this, my resolution simply reiterated what countless Americans, of every religious stripe – Protestant and Catholic, Jew and Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist, agnostic and atheistic, and more – have understood, for nearly two-and-a-half centuries. The role of the federal government is not to solve theological debates; it’s to make it possible for people who disagree, even about important things, to live together as neighbors and friends. I’m encouraged that the Senate unanimously passed this resolution. Religious liberty and the Constitution won.I hope that it will remind my colleagues, and the citizens we serve, that all of us are dedicated to, and sworn to uphold, a tradition of religious liberty that champions the freedom and dignity of every American.
01.17.2019	“Our pro-life cause is about protecting babies, supporting women, and respecting science.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Senate voted on the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. "Our pro-life cause is about protecting babies, supporting women, and respecting science,” said Senator Sasse. “Being pro-life means that we want to encourage life-affirming health providers, not the abortion business. I co-sponsored this legislation because it’s a respectful and common-sense approach that ensures our taxpayer dollars don’t pay for abortions. I’m sad that the vote fell short today, but I’m not discouraged – our pro-life cause is winning across the country not because of Washington’s politics, but because millions of pro-life Americans are winning hearts by speaking the truth with love and respect." Background: The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, co-sponsored by Senator Sasse, would establish a government-wide statutory prohibition on taxpayer subsidies for abortion and abortion coverage.While the bipartisan Hyde amendment and other pro-life policies have been a part of federal law for more than 30 years, these approaches have been temporary, limited, and could be eliminated at any time. This legislation is designed to make sure that restrictions on abortion funding are broad and permanent.
01.16.2019	“This isn’t hard. No religious tests for serving on the federal bench. We should in this body rebuke these anti-Catholic attacks.” Video of Senator Sasse’s floor speech is available here or by clicking on the image above Tonight on the Senate floor, Senator Ben Sasse led an effort to reaffirm religious liberty and condemn religious tests for federal officials. The Senate unanimously adopted resolution, rebuking recent anti-Catholic lines of questioning from Judiciary Committee Democrats. "This isn’t a Republican belief, this isn’t a Democratic belief, this is an American belief," said Sasse. "This is a super-basic point: no religious tests. If someone has a problem with this resolution, what other parts of the Constitution are you against? Freedom of the press? Women’s right to vote? Freedom of speech? This isn’t hard. No religious tests for serving on the federal bench. We should in this body rebuke these anti-Catholic attacks." In recent weeks, Brian Buescher, the nominee to be the U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska, has come under attack for his membership in the Knights of Columbus, the world’s largest Catholic fraternal service organization. Sasse’s simple resolution affirmed John F. Kennedy’s famous condemnation of anti-Catholic bigotry and held that “it is the sense of the Senate that disqualifying a nominee to Federal office on the basis of membership in the Knights of Columbus violates the No Religious Test clause of the Constitution.” Sasse’s resolution can be found here. Video of the Senator’s remarks can be found here. Transcript of Senator Sasse’s speech is below: I rise today to offer a very basic resolution. I want Senators to unanimously reaffirm our oath of office to a Constitution that rejects religious bigotry. It is useful to regularly remind ourselves that Americans are a First Amendment people. Each of the five freedoms in the First Amendment: speech, press, religion, assembly, protest, they define who we are. In America we talk, we read, we argue, we write, we march and we pray, we worship without fear. Because of this fundamental celebration of human dignity and of human freedom, America is big enough to welcome a whole bunch of meaty and messy fights on everything from who you vote for to who you call God. And, just as the First Amendment prohibits the government from dictating anyone's religious beliefs, so too the Constitution explicitly rejects religious tests for federal office. Our Constitution explicitly rejects religious tests for federal office. This isn't a Republican belief. This isn't a Democratic belief. this is an American belief. But tragically, over the last couple of years some strange things have been happening in this body and we seem to be forgetting some of those basic 101 American civics truths. I want to tell you a story. Brian Buescher from my state was recently nominated by the President to be a federal judge for the district of Nebraska. This is an honor for him and for his family. It's a celebration of his brain and his work ethic and his integrity. Oh, by the way, Brian is also Catholic and he's an active member of the Knights of Columbus. The Knights of Columbus, for those of you who don't know, is the largest Catholic fraternal service organization in the world. The Knights, there are 1.6 million members of the organization raise millions of dollars for charity every year and they contribute millions of hours of volunteer service. Like a lot of guys back in Nebraska, Brian joined the Knights of Columbus to give back, and also to be involved in a whole bunch of fish fries. This is not the stuff of headlines, but it is the stuff of basic neighborliness. Well, this is where our story gets weird, because at Brian's confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee a few weeks ago, one of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee called the Knights of Columbus an extremist organization. Huh? It got worse, Brian then got a letter from a member of this body asking him if he would resign his membership in the Knights of Columbus if he were confirmed to the Federal bench to quote "avoid the appearance of bias." This is nuts. We're talking about the largest Catholic fraternal organization in the world being called an extremist organization and a nominee for the federal bench being asked if he would resign from this organization so that he could serve without the appearance of bias. The clear implication here was that Brian's religious beliefs and his religious affiliations in this case and affiliation with the catholic organization that invests countless hours and millions of dollars annually serving special needs kids. Brian was supposedly therefore potentially unfit for federal service. This is the same kind of garbage that was thrown at a member of this body, John F. Kennedy, 60 years ago when he was campaigning for the presidency. And so today I've introduced a resolution, a 101-level basic resolution, that simply reaffirms the belief of this body in American religious liberty. The resolution simply says that it is the sense of the Senate that disqualifying a nominee for the federal bench or for any federal office on the basis of his or her Catholic beliefs or membership in the Knights of Columbus violates the No Religious Test clause of the Constitution. That seems obvious on its face. In this, we are simply reaffirming with President Kennedy and with countless other Americans across 230 years. Protestant and Catholic, Jew and Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist, agnostic, atheist, and more. We are simply reaffirming the idea that America is big enough for disagreements. Or stated differently, we are saying that we believe the US government is not in the business of trying to resolve debates about heaven and hell. Rather, the business of the U.S. government is to preserve peace and order so that you and your neighbors can precisely wrestle about things like heaven and hell or sports loyalties or dietary preferences. America can handle principled pluralism and honest, serious debate. This resolution ought to have the support of every single member of this body. After all, each of us took an oath to defend this very idea when we first came here: this is what America is actually about. And so, the text of the Resolution before us, quote: "Expressing the sense of the Senate that disqualifying a nominee to federal office on the basis of membership in the Knights of Columbus violates the Constitution of the United States. Whereas throughout the history of the United States, the religious liberty protected by both the First Amendment and the no-religious test clause of the Constitution of the United States has been at the heart of the American experiment and Whereas in 1960 the Presidential candidacy of John F. Kennedy was met with significant anti-Catholic bigotry. Whereas then-Senator Kennedy responded to this bigotry with these timeless words, quote: 'For while this year it may be a Catholic against whom the finger of suspicion is pointed, in other years it has been, and may someday again be, a Jew or a Quaker, a Unitarian or a Baptist. Today I may be the victim, but tomorrow it may be you until the whole fabric of our harmonious society is ripped at a time of great national peril and And whereas, The Knights of Columbus constitute the largest Catholic fraternal service organization in the world; whereas the Knights have a proud tradition of standing against the forces of prejudice and oppression such as the Klu Klux Klan and Nazi Germany; and whereas the Knights are founded on the principals of charity, unity, fraternity, and patriotism; and whereas in 2017 the Knights made more than $185 million dollars of charitable contributions and volunteered more than 75,600,000 service hours, now therefore be it resolved: that it is the sense of the Senate that disqualifying a nominee to federal office on the basis of membership in the Knights of Columbus violates Clause 3 of Article 6 of the Constitution of the United States which establishes that Senators shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support the Constitution and quote "no religious test shall ever be required as qualification to any office or public trust under the United States" close quote. Period and full stop. If a Senator has a problem with this resolution, you're probably in the wrong line of work, because this is what America is. This is a super basic point - no religious tests. If someone has a problem with this resolution, what other parts of the Constitution are you against? Freedom of the press? Women's right to vote? Freedom of speech? This isn't hard. No religious test for serving on the federal bench. We should, in this body, rebuke these anti-Catholic attacks. And so, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S.Res.19 submitted earlier today.
01.15.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after reintroducing the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. “Everybody loves babies and that love has nothing to do with politics and everything to do with just having a heart,” said Sasse. “This legislation is an opportunity for Congress to find consensus built on common sense, compassion, science, and a simple fact: every baby deserves a fighting chance at life. Providing care for newborns is more important than partisan political divides. Every baby has dignity – every baby deserves protection and love.” Background: Sasse’s bill, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, would protect newborns that survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. The legislation requires that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. It also requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. Currently federal law does not adequately protect a born child who survives an abortion. Cosponsors of the legislation include Senators Barrasso, Blackburn, Blunt, Boozman, Braun, Burr, Cassidy, Cornyn, Cotton, Cramer, Crapo, Cruz, Daines, Enzi, Ernst, Fischer, Graham, Grassley, Hawley, Hoeven, Hyde-Smith, Inhofe, Isakson, Johnson, Kennedy, Lankford, McConnell, Moran, Perdue, Portman, Risch, Roberts, Rounds, Rubio, Scott, Thune, Tillis, Wicker, and Young.
01.15.2019	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) released the following statement after President Trump signed his Open, Public, Electronic and Necessary (OPEN) Government Data Act into law. Sasse introduced the legislation along with Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI). “This is a big win for transparency in government,” said Sasse. “Washington’s backwards approach to data needed a fix — and this bipartisan solution is good news for data transparency and responsible government. We have long worked to get this legislation across the finish line and I’m glad to see President Trump sign it into law.” Background: This legislation requires federal agencies to publish public information in an open, machine-readable format and catalog it online, so that individuals, organizations, and other government offices can use it. It also preserves privacy and national security concerns. The bill was signed as part of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act.
01.04.2019	During the 116th Congress, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse will serve as the only new member of the Select Intelligence Committee and as the Senate Republican designee on the newly-created Cyber Commission. Sasse will continue to serve on the Judiciary, Banking, and Joint Economic Committees. “It is an honor to serve on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,” said Senator Sasse. “The Intel Committee has a unique national security role. Chairman Burr and Ranking Member Warner have worked closely on some of the most sensitive and pressing threats to the United States – from the returning challenge of competing powers like China and Russia to the continued threat of cyberwar. The Intelligence Committee is where Congress wrestles most frequently with these challenges, and I’m eager to work with my colleagues in open and closed session.” “The Intel Committee is usually the first to dive into Congress’ national security debates and, given the serious nature of our work, it’s important that we work in a deliberate way,” said Chairman Burr. “Ben does his homework and is ready to help this committee provide oversight of our Intelligence Community’s work as we face down threats around the globe.” Relatedly, Sasse was named by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to be a member of the Cyber Solarium Commission. “We’re in the age of cyberwar and America isn’t ready for it,” said Senator Sasse. “Washington isn’t doing enough to protect the American people from new and emerging cyber threats from China, Russia, and other adversaries. I’ve been pushing Washington to get serious about these threats and draft a badly-needed cyber playbook. An offensive and defensive strategy is long overdue and this commission needs to work with urgency. Let’s get this done.” ____________________________ Background From the Senate Select Intelligence Committee: The Committee was created by the Senate in 1976 to “oversee and make continuing studies of the intelligence activities and programs of the United States Government,” to “submit to the Senate appropriate proposals for legislation and report to the Senate concerning such intelligence activities and programs,” and to “provide vigilant legislative oversight over the intelligence activities of the United States to assure that such activities are in conformity with the Constitution and laws of the United States.”While all Senators have access to classified intelligence assessments, access to intelligence sources and methods, programs, and budgets is generally limited to Intelligence Committee members (and to members of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee). By law, the President is required to ensure that the Committee is kept “fully and currently informed” of intelligence activities—meaning that intelligence agencies are required, generally in writing, to notify the Committee of its activities and analysis. This includes keeping the Committee informed of covert actions and any significant intelligence failure.More information is available here. Background on the Cyberspace Solarium Commission: Proposed by Senator Sasse, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission was signed into law by President Trump as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019. Senator Sasse proposed a Cyberspace Solarium Commission. Loosely modeled on President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission is designed to develop clear consensus on a strategic approach to protecting and defending the United States in cyberspace. While 21st century threats are more complex and dynamic than the 20th century threat of Soviet Russia, our lack of clarity in the cyber domain makes the imperative for a new “Cyberspace Solarium” greater. America needs its government to do the hard work of developing an intellectual, political, and military framework to defend the nation from cyber threats. The 14-member commission is composed by representatives from the Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and private sector who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both the cyberspace and national security fields. More information is available here.
12.20.2018	“Nebraskans expect accountability, transparency and efficiency from our government.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Senate passed his Open, Public, Electronic, and Necessary (OPEN) Government Data Act. “Nebraskans expect accountability, transparency and efficiency from our government,” said Senator Sasse. “This bill isn’t rocket science: transparency is good and government data should be made public unless there’s a compelling reason not to. The OPEN Data Act is pretty simple: innovation, research, and transparency are great and that’s something everyone should agree on.” Background: This legislation requires federal agencies to publish public information in an open, machine-readable format and catalog it online, so that individuals, organizations, and other government offices can use it. It also preserves privacy and national security concerns. The bill passed as part of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act.
12.20.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement: "This is a sad day for America because Secretary Mattis was giving advice the President needs to hear. Mattis rightly believes that Russia and China are clear adversaries and that we are at war with jihadists across the globe who plot to kill Americans at home. Isolationism is a weak strategy that will harm Americans and America’s allies. Radical Islamic jihadists are still at war with us, and no ISIS is not gone.
12.20.2018	Secretary Perdue’s decision follows Senator Sasse’s call for action U.S. Senator Ben Sasse praised the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s decision to pursue regulatory reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that promote work requirements for able-bodied adults. Earlier this week, Sasse led a group of fourteen Senators urging the Department to promote work requirements for SNAP and update regulations governing state waivers. Today the Department of Agriculture did exactly that. “The stuff that makes life great – families, communities, and work – doesn’t come from government, but Washington should help by rolling back bad policy and promoting the dignity of work,” said Senator Sasse. “Nebraskans want to make sure that we help folks who need it most and that federal policy encourages meaningful work that gets our family and neighbors back on their feet. A few days ago, we urged Secretary Perdue to make these SNAP reforms. Sonny gets it, and the Department of Agriculture is doing the right thing. This is good news.”Background: Today, the Department of Agriculture published a proposed rule that would promote meaningful work by restoring closing loopholes in the state waiver process for work requirements for able-bodied SNAP recipients. Earlier this week, Senator Sasse led a group of fourteen Senators urging the Department of Agriculture to make these changes. Senator Sasse was joined by Senators John Cornyn, Ted Cruz, Joni Ernst, Jim Inhofe, Ron Johnson, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Mike Lee, Marco Rubio, Tim Scott, Thom Tillis, Pat Toomey, and Todd Young.
12.19.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement: "Eight days ago the Administration called a hypothetical pullout ‘reckless.’ Today, we're leaving. The President's generals have no idea where this weak decision came from: They believe the high-fiving winners today are Iran, ISIS, and Hezbollah. The losers are Israel, humanitarian victims, and U.S. intelligence gathering. A lot of American allies will be slaughtered if this retreat is implemented.”
12.18.2018	“Nebraskans want to make sure that assistance goes to folks who need it most and that federal policy encourages meaningful work.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse led a group of fourteen Senators urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture to promote work requirements for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and update regulations governing state waivers. Senator Sasse was joined by Senators John Cornyn, Ted Cruz, Joni Ernst, Jim Inhofe, Ron Johnson, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Mike Lee, Marco Rubio, Tim Scott, Thom Tillis, Pat Toomey, and Todd Young. "Nebraskans want to make sure that assistance goes to folks who need it most and that federal policy encourages meaningful work,” said Senator Sasse afterward. “We’re asking the Secretary of Agriculture to work to ensure that SNAP serves our neighbors’ needs while still promoting a pathway to work."The full text of the letter can be found below or by clicking here.Dear Secretary Perdue: We write to urge you to review and update the regulations governing state waivers for able-bodied adults without dependents (ABAWDs) in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to ensure work requirements are applied as Congress intended. The current regulations allowing states to exempt ABAWDs from time limits and work requirements are too broad and do not meet the congressional intent of encouraging able-bodied Americans to get back to work. The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 and the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 limit the amount of time an ABAWD can receive SNAP benefits unless the individual is working at least 80 hours per month, participating in a qualified education or workforce training program, or complying with a state-run workfare program. Under current USDA regulation, states can apply for waivers exempting ABAWDs from time limits and work requirements in two ways: 1) a state can request a waiver of ABAWD time limit and work requirements for an area that has an unemployment rate of 10 percent or does not have a sufficient number of jobs to provide employment for individuals (time limit waiver), or 2) a state agency may exempt up to 15 percent of ABAWDs who would otherwise be subject to time limit and work requirements, if the individual’s work requirements have not already been waived by a time limit waiver (15 percent exemption).Furthermore, states have significant latitude to include areas with lower unemployment rates and to design the geographic waivers such that the entire state’s SNAP population is exempt from federal work requirements. While both the time limit waiver and the 15 percent exemption allow states to tailor their SNAP programs to suit the needs of their citizens, we are deeply concerned that both of these tools, as they are being applied, undermine the work requirements Congress explicitly applied to ABAWDs receiving SNAP benefits, making work requirements effectively meaningless. In 2018, 36 states and territories were approved for statewide or partial ABAWD time limit waivers. In areas of states that are not covered by these time limit waivers, states can still use 15 percent exemptions for ABAWDs to exempt specific individuals from work requirements. These 15 percent exemptions do not expire and states can carry over unused exemptions indefinitely, which may result in more than 15 percent of ABAWDs being exempt from work requirements. Both categories of waivers often extend for years beyond the initial lag in employment opportunities, with many able-bodied adult beneficiaries receiving SNAP benefits for years without ever looking for work. Work is good for individuals. It provides self-sufficiency, dignity, and opportunity. Evidence in Kansas and Maine indicates that reinstating work requirements for ABAWDs correlated with people returning to work and improving their circumstances. In Kansas, after the first year of reinstating work requirements for ABAWDs, the Foundation for Government Accountability found that 60 percent of individuals no longer receiving SNAP benefits found employment within 12 months and their incomes rose by 127 percent that year. In Maine, after the first year of reinstating work requirements for ABAWDs, the Maine Office of Policy and Management found that the ABAWDs closed out for non-compliance experienced a 114 percent increase in total wages from the third quarter of 2014 to the fourth quarter of 2015. Those ABAWDs who complied with the work requirement rule experienced a 20 percent increase in total wages through the same period. It is clear that, for all who are able, work should be encouraged.We applaud that the USDA has already solicited comments about requirements and services for ABAWDs in SNAP. We encourage you to continue working to reform the state waiver process and to ensure SNAP fulfills its goal of providing food security for vulnerable citizens while also providing a pathway to meaningful, productive, sustaining work. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Ben SasseU.S. Senator John KennedyU.S. Senator Thom TillisU.S. Senator Jim InhofeU.S. Senator John Cornyn U.S. Senator Marco RubioU.S. Senator James Lankford U.S. Senator Mike Lee U.S. Senator Joni Ernst U.S. Senator Todd Young U.S. Senator Ted Cruz U.S. Senator Ron Johnson U.S. Senator Pat Toomey U.S. Senator Tim Scott
12.17.2018	Sasse Amendments Would Prevent Early Release of Violent Criminals and Sex Traffickers U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the current version of the First Step Act: "Everyone should want two things: to keep families together by reducing sentences for certain nonviolent offenders; and to keep our communities safe from violent criminals who rightly belong behind bars. How we meet these two goals matters, because many of the people in federal prison are seriously violent. The current draft fails. While this Sentencing Reduction Bill does some good things for nonviolent inmates, as written it will also release thousands of violent felons very early. That’s a grave mistake that will hurt innocent Americans. Good intentions are not enough." Additional Background: Senator Sasse has filed amendments to the First Step Act designed to ensure that violent and dangerous criminals are not eligible for early release. One of Senator Sasse’s amendments would prevent prisoners from receiving time credits if they are serving time for violent crimes, sex offenses, or any of the following provisions of current law: 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2421—sex trafficking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2422—coercion for purposes of sex trafficking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2423—sex trafficking minors 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2425—enticing minors into sex trafficking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1593A—benefitting from human trafficking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1594(a)-(c)—attempt and conspiracy for human trafficking offenses 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2261—domestic violence 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1112—manslaughter 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1113—attempted murder or manslaughter 21 U.S.C. Sec. 841—drug trafficking 21 U.S.C. Sec. 960—international drug trafficking 21 U.S.C. Sec. 962—recalcitrant drug smuggling 46 U.S.C. Sec. 70506—maritime drug trafficking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 36—drive-by shooting involving a major drug offense 18 U.S.C. Sec. 111(a)—assaulting a law enforcement officer 18 U.S.C. Sec. 113(a)(2)-(6)—assault 18 U.S.C. Sec. 114—maiming 18 U.S.C. Sec. 249—hate crimes 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2101—riots 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2111—robbery 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2113(a) and (d)—bank robbery 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2118(a)—drug robberies 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2119(1)—carjacking 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2261A—stalking
12.12.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Oversight, released the following statement after sending an oversight letter to the Department of Justice regarding a 2016 cyberattack that targeted OrthoNebraska, Nebraska’s only hospital specializing in orthopedics and a leading employer in the state. Last month, the Department of Justice indicted two Iranian nationals for carrying out cyberattacks against American targets, including OrthoNebraska. “Cyber attackers don’t just target tech companies in Silicon Valley and government agencies in Washington, they’re hitting businesses and infrastructure. In 2016, Iranian hackers blackmailed an Omaha hospital demanding a ransom. That’s not science fiction – it’s right here in Nebraska. We need a coherent cyber doctrine to blunt and respond to these attacks because the threats are only going to get more serious.” Text of Senator Sasse’s letter can be found below: Dear Mr. Rosenstein, I write to you today regarding the November 26 indictment of two Iranian nationals for crimes conducted in the commission of ransomware attacks against numerous American targets. I recognize the uniqueness of this particular indictment, both in its specifics and its scope, and I applaud your efforts to expose cybercriminals and bring them to justice. The attacks described in the indictment targeted critical American infrastructure, municipal governments, universities, and health systems beginning in December 2015 and continuing through November 2018. The attacks cost the affected entities millions of dollars and prevented ports, hospitals, and cities from being able to fully carry out their missions. The targets of these wide-ranging attacks included OrthoNebraska, Nebraska’s only hospital specializing in orthopedics and a leading employer in the state. Victims were forced to pay a ransom in virtual currency in order to recover lost data, as the defendants penetrated systems before deploying the malware, crippling their operations. Until we are able to come up with a coherent doctrine for blunting and responding to these attacks, our economy, our local governments, and our critical infrastructure—including our healthcare systems—will remain vulnerable. The attacks also raise several pressing questions about American law enforcement’s ability to bring overseas cybercriminals to justice and address the ways in which cryptocurrencies and new financial technologies make stolen funds more difficult to track and recover. This indictment illustrates how two individuals can cause significant damage to American municipalities and companies, with victims forced to choose between paying a ransom or suffering shut-downs in daily operations. In light of these events, I am requesting a briefing from your agency to discuss the following: 1) Specific details of this attack, with particular focus on how OrthoNebraska was affected; 2) The evolution, in both sophistication and target selection, of ransomware attacks and the Department’s ability to address these challenges; 3) The role of cryptocurrency in cybercrime and how your Department is responding to this development; 4) How your Department’s authorities and capabilities fit into the government-wide effort to deter foreign hackers, especially those from rogue states such as Iran, and to impose punitive measures on them (and any state sponsors) for their behavior. Please respond in writing to confirm receipt of this letter within the next 15 days. If you have any questions, please contact my staff at (202) 224-4224. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely,Ben Sasse
12.12.2018	“Too many folks in Washington cling to an imaginary distinction between Chinese businesses and the Chinese Communist Party.” Video of Senator Sasse’s exchange is available here or by clicking on the image above At today’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the threat of China’s non-traditional espionage efforts, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who last week praised the arrest of a Chinese tech CFO at the request of the Department of Justice, pushed for more clarity, urgency, and accountability from federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies. “Too many folks in Washington cling to an imaginary distinction between Chinese businesses and the Chinese Communist Party,” said Senator Sasse afterward. “This is much, much bigger than corporate ‘cheating’ or old-school spy-vs-spy tactics. China wants to win a fight before it starts by leveraging every tool at Chairman Xi’s disposal – sometimes that means using the state and sometimes that means using Chinese citizens and businesses. We can’t sleep on this threat. The Assistant Director for Counterintelligence at the FBI gets this and is trying to bring urgency to the challenge.” Transcript of Senator Sasse’s exchange with Christopher Krebs, the Director of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency for the Department of Homeland Security, and Bill Priestap, the Assistant Director of the Counterintelligence Division for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is found below: Sasse: Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the three of you for being here. Incredibly important topic and I applaud Chairman Grassley and Senator Feinstein for scheduling this important hearing. Director Priestap, you made a number of startling and really important comments in your opening statement. How does the Chinese government think about its diaspora? How do they think about students abroad? How do they think about corporate executives working in Silicon Valley? Priestap: In my opinion, they think of them as being beholden to them. They think of them as -- just simply an extension of their power, of their nation. Sasse: And, what is the range of understanding that Chinese nationals who are studying, getting PhD’s in the U.S. or working in tech companies in the U.S., to what degree…what’s the differentiation of understanding they have about how they are viewed as assets of the government? Priestap: You mean those individuals? Based on FBI interaction with some of those individuals, it really is a case-by-case basis. Some I think are not knowledgeable in the least and are completely unwitting of doing anything in furtherance of their government aims. And, others either through direct or other softly applied pressure understand that they have obligations to meet. But, it really runs a gamut is what I’m trying to say. Sasse: Is there clarity in the way we, the United States government communicate to folks who come into the U.S. though about our laws and about the expectations about what is and isn't appropriate forms of statecraft and spycraft? Priestap: No, I think that is a great question and, in my experience, there doesn't seem to be consistency, and frankly it is something I think we could do a much better job of, especially in regards to universities and other research institutions, standards of research, what is acceptable behavior and what is not. Is that spelled out for all of the people studying and conducting the research? So, that people know from day one what is right and what is wrong and that there will be consequences if they cross that line. Sasse: And, when you say - and Director Krebs, you and I have had a number of good briefings separate from this and I definitely appreciate your work and also agree with the congratulations on your new role - but when we say that there is coordination but there is not a coordinator, who would be responsible for what Director Priestap just said? Who in the U.S. government is responsible for thinking through this issue of strategic communications with Chinese nationals who come to the U.S., many of them not intending to break laws but ultimately having pressure on them to break our laws or be involved in corporate and economic espionage? And, who in the U.S. government is communicating with the tech companies about the hiring they are doing? Who is communicating with the universities about the often-nefarious effects of the Confucius Institutes? Where does that responsibility reside in the U.S. government? Krebs: I see those as counterintelligence and law enforcement roles and responsibilities that there is a substantial amount of coordination that happened through the National Security Council led in part by the Director of FBI and the Director of National Intelligence. Now, my job is principally cybersecurity and risk management is to carry the message they develop and then push it out through the public/private partnerships whether it’s with industry or with academia. Sasse: Thanks. Director. Priestap: I’m sorry, Senator. If I may, because I think that just an absolutely critical question in what I’m seeing, not just across government, but across business, across academia, what have you, again there are pockets of great understanding of the threat we're facing and effective responses. But in my opinion, we've got to knit that together better. Our government somehow -- obviously we have three separate branches intentionally, but if we're facing a whole of government, some call it a whole of society -- not meaning every person in the society is posing the threat but people from all walks of life -- you can't effectively combat that threat with ad hoc responses. We need more people in government, more people in business, more people in academia pulling in the same direction to combat this threat effectively. Sasse: Going back to the point you made earlier about spy on spy, the Chinese clearly understand that this is not merely a spy on spy initiative anymore, and our system is the better system in the long-term. Decentralization is the better system for human flourishing and for innovation, but it certainly puts greater communication burdens on us to be able to respond to all of the asymmetric disadvantages that we face. Is there anything we can learn from the Five Eyes partners that we have about how they respond to these kinds of strategic threats. Priestap: I guess the only thing I would add because obviously the FBI and my division coordinates closely with them. We need them. If we think we've got a threat today and people are trying to steal things today, what we have to understand is if they can't get it from the U.S., you go to the place where... you know, somewhere else you could get it. In other words, you look for the soft underbelly. You need a coordinated response. We need as many allies in this fight as is possible. Sasse: I’m at time so, General Demers, I’ll just flag for you that I’m going to send you a letter following up on some of the important comments you made about the intention of the department to continue the China Initiative from the Chinese Espionage Act and to ask some questions about how many cases we're currently pursuing. So, thanks for your work.
12.11.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for American agriculture, released the following statement after the EPA proposed new rules to replace the unconstitutional 2015 Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. Senator Sasse will submit Nebraskans’ comments to the EPA during the rulemaking comment period. "This is good news. The Obama-era WOTUS rule was textbook Washington hogwash: unelected federal bureaucrats were trying to unconstitutionally regulate puddles here in Nebraska. I'm grateful for today's new approach -- Nebraska producers need predictability and common sense. Here’s the truth Nebraskans have known all along: nobody cares more about our land and water resources than we do -- our farmers and ranchers don't talk about conservation, they do it."
12.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services and Banking Committees, issued the following statement regarding the arrest of Meng Wanzhou, the CFO of Chinese Telecom giant, Huawei Technologies Company. Ms. Meng was arrested by Canadian authorities at the United States’ request. “China is working creatively to undermine our national security interests, and the United States and our allies can’t sit on the sidelines,” said Senator Sasse. “Sometimes Chinese aggression is explicitly state-sponsored and sometimes it’s laundered through many of Beijing’s so-called ‘private’ sector entities that are in bed with Xi’s communist party. Americans are grateful that our Canadian partners have arrested the Chief Financial Officer of a giant Chinese telecom company for breaking U.S. sanctions against Iran.”
12.01.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the death of President George H.W. Bush. “President George H.W. Bush served the American people with honor, diligence, and integrity — from his Naval service to the Oval Office. His family knows well the sacrifices required of public service and they have the gratitude of our entire country. Melissa and I now join millions of Americans in holding up all of his children in prayer.”
11.28.2018	"He’s a Nebraskan through and through. And, in Nebraska, we maintain a commitment to the rule of law and the Constitution." Video of Senator Sasse’s introduction is available here or by clicking on the image above U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired today’s nomination hearing and introduced Brian Buescher, the nominee for U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska. Text as prepared for delivery is below: This morning, I’d first like to welcome Brian Buescher, who has been nominated to serve on Nebraska’s federal district court. Brian Buescher is a native Nebraskan who grew up working on his family’s farm. He is a lucky husband and a proud father of five children, who I’d also like to welcome today. Brian is a Cornhusker, having earned his undergraduate degree at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln before going on to receive his law degree from Georgetown University, where he was the Editor in Chief of the Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics. But perhaps Brian’s most notable academic success was being named valedictorian of his 28-person graduating class at Sandy Creek High School. He has spent his entire legal career practicing in Nebraska—accruing a broad range of experience from representing Nebraska farmers to protecting victims of domestic violence—and currently leads the agriculture litigation team for Kutak Rock LLP, where he works in the firm’s Omaha office. He’s a Nebraskan through and through. And, in Nebraska, we maintain a commitment to the rule of law and the Constitution. On behalf of the Committee, I want to welcome Mr. Buescher.
11.15.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Armed Services and Judiciary Committees, who urged then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions to prosecute Julian Assange in 2017, issued the following statement regarding reports that the Department of Justice is preparing to prosecute the Wikileaks founder. “This is cut and dried: Wikileaks is an outlet for foreign propaganda and Julian Assange is an enemy of the American people. He deserves to spend the rest of his life in an American prison. Assange is no ally to serious journalists or to defenders of free speech. He’s in bed with Vladimir Putin who murders journalists and dissidents."
11.10.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, participated in a deployment ceremony for 38 soldiers of the 394th Army Reserve Unit. The 394this based in Fremont and will be providing logistical support for the Special Operations Command abroad. An excerpt from Senator Sasse’s speech is below: “The greatest things in life are not on the battlefield, but the battlefield makes it possible for the greatest things in life to exist. The communities where you're raising your kids, where you're running a small business, where you're worshipping freely, where you're inviting people to the Rotary Club, where you're coaching Little League... all the communities where the most important parts of American life flower are because the framework for ordered liberty happens because people like this and people like you all are willing to sacrifice and make that kind of investment.”
10.19.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the Department of Justice charged Elena Khusyaynova, of Russia, with conspiracy to interfere with the 2018 U.S. elections. “America needs to see what Vladimir Putin is doing. Election after election, Putin and his cronies are working to undermine our public trust. This indictment shows that he won’t stop working to divide Americans — we have to keep exposing his effort for what it is: political warfare. It’s good to see DOJ push back on Putin’s shadow war by publicly indicting his shadow warriors and bring his war to light.”
10.12.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who urged Turkey’s President to release Pastor Andrew Brunson in March, issued the following statement regarding news of Pastor Brunson’s forthcoming release. “This is long overdue news. The Turkish government should put Pastor Brunson on the next flight home. I’m grateful that Pastor Brunson’s unjust detainment is coming to an end. The President and Vice President worked hard for our fellow American’s freedom. As we celebrate with his family, let’s not forget that Andrew is just one of many Americans, US State Department employees, and Western nationals that Erdogan continues to hold hostage. There is still work to be done and President Erdogan has a long way to go before acting like the NATO ally we expect him to be.”
10.10.2018	Sasse votes against resolution that would outlaw the expansion of short-term insurance options. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after he voted against a Senate resolution that would outlaw the expansion of short-term, limited duration health insurance plans that could help Nebraskans who can only “choose” from one insurer on ObamaCare’s marketplace right now. "I voted against this attempt to limit healthcare options because moms and dads in our state deserve flexible and affordable health insurance that meets their needs. If this misguided rollback becomes law, Nebraska will be stuck with fewer healthcare choices. We need to expand access to cost-efficient, short-term health insurance that can aid millions of Americans who have been priced out of the market due to overregulation." Background: Today Senator Sasse voted against a Democrat-driven resolution to block the Trump administration’s rule on short-term limited duration health insurance plans. The Trump administration’s rule allows short-term health insurance plans to be issued for up to 12 months and renewed for up to 36 months. In the last quarter of 2016, a short-term plan cost about $124 a month on average, while an unsubsidized Obamacare plan averaged $393—a savings of 70%.
10.09.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding U.S. Ambassador to United Nations Nikki Haley. "For decades, dictators have tried to use the United Nations as a platform to give lip service to human rights and offer cheap promises to uphold peace," said Senator Sasse. "Ambassador Haley was unafraid to call out their BS and Americans should be grateful for her clarity and strength. She is a tireless champion of America’s interests and values."
10.05.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement: “I’m voting for confirmation because of the evidence and Judge Kavanaugh’s qualifications. After spending more than 150 hours doing my homework, I completed my reading of the FBI’s seventh background investigation this morning. This broken and politicized process has further undermined public trust. Washington embarrassed itself for the last month, but it is clear that most Americans are yearning for more than tribal blood feuds."
09.28.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement: “Dr. Ford’s family and Judge Kavanaugh’s family are both getting death threats today for one reason: because this process was intentionally turned into a made-for-TV circus by people who care more about politics than they care about either of these families. “These serious allegations could – and should – have been investigated back in July through the confidential vetting process that the Judiciary Committee has had for decades. But instead of working through that process, which could have helped restore some public trust, Senator Feinstein hid these allegations from the Judiciary Committee and from the FBI, got Dr. Ford a hyper-political lawyer, and then played this at the most politically destructive moment, after the FBI background investigation had already been concluded. “Today, the Senate Judiciary Committee requested that the FBI do a supplemental background investigation. The FBI will report back to us next week – and that report will be carefully considered by the Senate, rather than merely by the badly damaged Judiciary Committee. “I'm absolutely heartbroken for both Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh. The Senate did not serve either of them well, nor has it served the American people well through this process.”
09.13.2018	Sasse's New Ethics Reforms Go After Both Parties, Executive and Legislative Branches Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse rolled out five ethics reform bills aimed at actually draining the swamp. “Everybody talks about draining the swamp but nobody actually does it,” said Senator Sasse. “Both parties talk a big game on the campaign trail, but then look the other way as soon they get a taste of power. These bills are going chafe both parties and, frankly, that’s the only way this gets done.” Senator Sasse’s legislation would: 1. Prohibit cabinet members and their immediate family from soliciting donations from foreign sources. No more Clintons using high office to line their own pockets. Legislative text available here. 2. Require that presidential and vice-presidential candidates’ tax returns are disclosed. Voters deserve basic information about the financial situation of their potential chief executive. Make sure they can get it by requiring the IRS disclose candidates tax returns. Legislative text available here. 3. Create a public database of congressional HR settlements, make disclosure quicker, and increase personal financial liability for members of congress. Voters should be able to expect transparency from their representatives when accusations of improper conduct are settled. At the end of the day, giving constituents information is the best way to make sure that elected representatives are held accountable. Legislative text available here. 4. Prohibit members of Congress from buying or selling stocks during their time in office. Members of Congress are supposed to do what's best for their constituents, not their 401K. Legislative text available here. 5. Put a stopper in D.C.’s infamous Revolving Door with a lifetime ban on members of Congress making money lobbying. Washington’s legislator-to-lobbyist pipeline is cutting out the input of families and small businesses who can’t pay to play. That’s wrong. Getting elected to the U.S. Congress should be honest work, not a lottery ticket. Legislative text available here. Additional Background: Senator Sasse’s op-ed discussing the legislation in USA Today is available here. After the death of Senator John McCain, Sasse made clear the need to honor Senator McCain rightly with legislation that is “big and disruptive and uncomfortable for Washington, D.C.” Video of his remarks is available here.
09.06.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding news that the Justice Department will announce charges against North Koreans for cyber-attacks against the United States."Good. It's been four years since North Korea's petty little despot hacked Sony Pictures because he didn't like a movie that a free and open society produced. It’s been a year and half since he launched a ransomware attack that hit hundreds of thousands of computers across the globe. Kim showed the world both how small he was and how capable his cyber soldiers can be. Cyber war gives outsized opportunities to North Korea and it's important to push back."
09.04.2018	“We can and we should do better than this. It's predictable now that every confirmation hearing is going to be an overblown, politicized circus. And it's because we've accepted a bad new theory about how our three branches of government should work -- and in particular about how the Judiciary should work.” Video of Senator Sasse's speech is available here or by clicking on the image above On the first day of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s hearing on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse delivered the following opening statement. Senator Klobuchar, you did Madison, Lin-Manuel Miranda, the Magna Carta and your Dad taking you to court. Well done. I had all that on my BINGO card. I have little kids and I've taken my two little girls to court a few times too, mostly to juvie just to scare them straight not to turn them into attorneys. There's wisdom in Minnesota. Congratulations, Judge, on your nomination. Ashley, congratulations, and condolences. This process has to stink. I'm glad your daughters could get out of the room and I hope they still get the free day from school. Let's do some good news bad news. The bad news first, Judge: Since your nomination in July, you've been accused of hating women, hating children, hating clean air, wanting dirty water. You've been declared an existential threat to our nation. Alumni of Yale Law School, incensed that faculty members at your alma mater praised your selection, wrote a public letter to the school saying quote, "People will die if Brett Kavanaugh is confirmed." This drivel is patently absurd and I worry that we're going to hear more of it over the next few days. But the good news is, it is absurd and the American people don't believe any of it. This stuff isn't about Brett Kavanaugh when screamers say this stuff for cable TV news. The people who know you better, not those who are trying to get on TV, they tell a completely different story about who Brett Kavanaugh is. You've earned high praise from the many lawyers, both right and left, who've appeared before you during your 12 years on the D.C. Circuit. And those who've had you as a professor at Yale Law and Harvard Law, people in legal circles invariably applaud your mind, your work, your temperament, your collegiality. That's who Brett Kavanaugh is. And to quote Lisa Blatt, a Supreme Court attorney from the left who has known you for a decade, "Sometimes, a superstar is just a superstar and that's the case with this Judge. The Senate should confirm him." It's pretty obvious to most people going about their work today, that the deranged comments don't actually have anything to do with you. So, we should figure out: why do we talk like this about Supreme Court nominations now. There's a bunch that's atypical in the last 19-20 months in America. Senator Klobuchar's right, the comments from the White House yesterday about trying to politicize the Department of Justices, they were wrong and they should be condemned and my guess is that Brett Kavanaugh would condemn them. But really, the reason these hearings don't work is not because of Donald Trump... It's not because of anything these last 20 months... These confirmation hearings haven't worked for 31 years in America. People are going to pretend that Americans have no historical memory and supposedly there haven't been screaming protestors saying, "Women are going to die" at every hearing for decades. But this has been happening since Robert Bork. This is a 31-year tradition. There's nothing really new the last 18 months. So, the fact that the hysteria has nothing to do with you means that we should ask, what's the hysteria coming from? The hysteria around Supreme Court confirmation hearings is coming from the fact that we have a fundamental misunderstanding of the role of the Supreme Court in American life now. Our political commentary talks about the Supreme Court like they are people wearing red and blue jerseys. That's a really dangerous thing and, by the way, if they have red and blue jerseys, I would welcome my colleagues to introduce legislation that ends lifetime tenure for the judiciary. Because if they're just politicians, then the people should have power and they shouldn't have lifetime appointments. So, until you introduce that legislation. I don't believe you really want the Supreme Court to be a politicized body. Though that's the way we constantly talk about it now. We can and we should do better than this. It's predictable now that every confirmation hearing is going to be an overblown, politicized circus. And it's because we've accepted a bad new theory about how our three branches of government should work -- and in particular about how the Judiciary should work. What Supreme Court confirmation hearings should be about, is an opportunity to go back and do School House Rock civics for our kids. We should be talking about how a bill becomes a law, and what the job of Article II is, and what the job of Article III is. So, let's try just a little bit. How did we get here and how do we fix it? I want to make just four brief points. Number one: In our system, the legislative branch is supposed to be the center of our politics. Number two: it's not. Why not? Because for the last century, and increasing by the decade right now, more and more legislative authority is delegated to the executive branch every year. Both parties do it. The legislature is impotent. The legislature is weak. And most people here want their jobs more than they really want to do legislative work. And so they punt most of the work to the next branch. The third consequence is that this transfer of power means that people yearn for a place where politics can actually be done. And when we don't do a lot of big actual political debating here, we transfer it to the Supreme Court. And that's why the Supreme Court is increasingly a substitute political battleground. It is not healthy, but it is what happens and it's something our founders wouldn't be able to make any sense of. And fourth and finally: we badly need to restore the proper duties and the balance of power from our constitutional system. So point one: the legislative branch is supposed to by the locus of our politics properly understood. Since we're here in this room today, because this is a Supreme Court confirmation hearing, we're tempting to start with Article III. But really we need Article III as the part of the Constitution that sets up the judiciary. We really should be starting with Article I, which is us. What is the legislature's job? The Constitution's drafters began with the legislature. These are equal branches, but Article I comes first for a reason and that is because policymaking is supposed to be done in the body that makes laws. That means that this is supposed to be the institution dedicated to political fights. If we see lots and lots of protests, in front of the Supreme Court, that's a pretty good litmus test barometer of the fact that our republic isn't healthy. Because people shouldn't be thinking they ought to be protesting in front of the Supreme Court. They should be protesting in front of this body. The legislature is designed to be controversial, noisy, sometimes even rowdy because making laws means we have to hash out that we don't all agree. Government is about power. Government is not just another word for things we do together. The reason we have limited government in America is because we believe in freedom. We believe in souls. We believe in persuasion. We believe in love. And those things aren't done by power. But the government acts by power. And since the government acts by power, we should be reticent to use power. And so it means when you differ about power, you have to have a debate. And this institution is supposed to be dedicated to debate and should be based on the premise that we know since we don't all agree, we should try to constrain that power just a little bit, but then we should fight about it and have a vote in front of the American people. And then what happens? The people get to decide if they want to hire us or fire us. They don't have to hire us again. This body is the political branch where policymaking fights should happen. And if we are the easiest people to fire, it means the only way the people can maintain power in our system is if all the politicized decisions happen here. Not in Article II or Article III. So, that brings us to a second point. How do we get to a place where the legislature decided to give away its power? We've been doing it for a long time. Over the course of the last century, but especially since the 1930s and then ramping up since the 1960s, a whole lot of the responsibility in this body has been kicked to a bunch of alphabet soup bureaucracies. All the acronyms that people know about their government or don't know about their government are the places where most actual policymaking, kind of in a way, lawmaking is happening right now. This is not what Schoolhouse Rock says. There's no verse of Schoolhouse Rock that says give a whole bunch of power to the alphabet soup agencies and let them decide what the governance decisions should be for the people because the people don't have any way to fire the bureaucrats. And so, what we mostly do around this body is not pass laws. What we mostly do is decide to give permission to the Secretary or the administrator of bureaucracy X, Y, or Z to make law-like regulations. That's mostly what we do here. We go home and pretend that we make laws... No, we don't. We write giant pieces of legislation -- 1,200 pages, 1,500 pages long that people haven't read. Filled with all of these terms that are undefined and we say the Secretary of such and such shall promulgate rules that do the rest of our dang jobs. That's why there are so many fights about the executive branch and about the judiciary because this body rarely finishes its work -- and the House is even worse... I don't really believe that... it just seemed like... you needed to unite us in some way. So, I admit, that there are rational arguments that one could make for this new system. The Congress can't manage all the nitty-gritty details of everything about modern government and this system tries to give power and control to experts in their fields where most of us in Congress don't know much of anything -- about technical matters, for sure -- but you can also impugn our wisdom if you want. But when you're talking about technical, complicated matters, it's true that the Congress would have a hard time sorting out every dot and tittle about every detail. But the real reason, at the end of the day, that this institution punts most of its power to executive branch agencies is because it is a convenient way for legislators to have... to be able to avoid taking responsibility for controversial and often unpopular decisions. If people want to get reelected over and over again -- and that's your highest goal -- if your biggest long-term thought around here is about your own incumbency, then actually giving away your power is a pretty good strategy... it's not a good life but it's a pretty good strategy for incumbency. And so, at the end of the day, a lot of the power delegation that happens from this branch is because the Congress has decided to self-neuter. Well, guess what? The important thing isn't whether or not the Congress has lame jobs... the important thing is that when the Congress neuters itself and gives power to an unaccountable fourth branch of government, it means that people are cut out of the process. There's nobody in Nebraska... there's nobody in Minnesota or Delaware who elected the Deputy Assistant Administrator of Plant Quarantine at the USDA. And yet, if the Deputy Assistant Administrator of Plant Quarantine does something that makes Nebraskans' lives really difficult -- which happens to farmers and ranchers in Nebraska -- who do they protest too? Where do they go? How do they navigate the complexity and the thicket of all the lobbyists in this town to do executive agency lobbying? They can't. And so, what happens is that they don't have any ability to speak out and to fire people through an election. And so, ultimately, when the Congress is neutered... when the administrative state grows... when there is this fourth branch of government, it makes it harder and harder for the concerns of citizens to be represented and articulated by people that the people know they have power over. All the power right now... or almost all the power right now happens offstage. And that leaves a lot of people wondering who is looking out for me. And that brings us to the third point, the Supreme Court becomes our substitute political battleground. It's only nine people. You can know 'em. You can demonize 'em. You can try to make 'em messiahs. But ultimately, because people can't navigate their way through the bureaucracy they turn to the Supreme Court looking for politics. And knowing that our elected officials no longer care enough to do the hard work of reasoning through the places where we differ and deciding to shroud our power at times, it means that we look for nine Justices to be super-legislators. We look for nine justices to try to right the wrongs from other places in the process. When people talk about wanting to have empathy from their justices, this is what they're talking about. They're talking about trying to make the justices do something that the Congress refuses to do as it constantly abdicates its responsibility. The hyperventilating that we see in this process and the way that today's hearing started with 90 minutes of theatrics that are pre-planned with certain members of the other side here, it shows us a system that is wildly out of whack. And thus, a fourth and final point. The solution here is not to try to find judges who will be policy makers. The solution is not to try to turn the Supreme Court into an election battle for TV. The solution is to restore a proper constitutional order with the balance of powers. We need Schoolhouse Rock back. We need a Congress that writes laws and then stands before the people and suffers the consequences and gets to back to our own Mount Vernon, if that's what the electors decide. We need an executive branch that has a humble view of its job as enforcing the law, not trying to write laws in the Congress’ absence. And, we need a judiciary that tries to apply written laws to facts in cases that are actually before it. This is the elegant and the fair process that the founders created. It's the process where the people who are elected two and six years in this institution, four years in the executive branch can be fired because the justices and the judges, the men and women who serve America's people by wearing black robes -- they’re insulated from politics. This is why we talk about an independent judiciary. This is why they wear robes. This is why we shouldn't talk about Republican and Democratic judges and justices. This is why we say justice is blind. This is why we give judges lifetime tenure. And, this is why this is the last job interview Brett Kavanaugh will ever have. Because he's going to a job where he's not supposed to be a super legislator. So, the question before us today is not what did Brett Kavanaugh think 11 years ago on some policy matter, the question before us is whether or not he has the temperament and the character to take his policy views and his political preferences and put them in a box marked irrelevant and set it aside every morning when he puts on the black robe. The question is, does he have the character and temperament to do that. If you don’t think he does, vote no. But, if you think he does, stop the charades. Because at the end of the day I think all of us know that Brett Kavanaugh understands his job isn’t to re-write laws as he wishes they were. He understands that he's not being interviewed to be a super legislator. He understands that his job isn't to seek popularity. His job is to be fair and dispassionate. It is not to exercise empathy. It is to follow written laws. Contrary to the Onion-like smears that we hear outside, Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t hate women and children. Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t lust after dirty water and stinky air. No, looking at his record, it seems to me that what he actually dislikes are legislators that are too lazy and too risk-averse to do our actual jobs. It seems to me that if you read his 300+ opinions, what his opinions reveal to me is a dissatisfaction, I think he would argue a constitutionally compelled dissatisfaction with power-hungry executive branch bureaucrats doing our job when we failed to do it. And in this view, I think he's aligned with the founders. For our constitution places power, not in the hands of this city's bureaucracy -- which can't be fired -- but our constitution places the policy-making power in the 535 of our hands because the voters can hire and fire us. And, if the voters are going to retain their power, they need a legislature that's responsive to politics, not a judiciary that's responsive to politics. It seems to me that Judge Kavanaugh is ready to do his job, the question for us is whether we're ready to do our job. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
09.03.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the President’s attack on the Department of Justice for indicting two Republican congressmen.“The United States is not some banana republic with a two-tiered system of justice – one for the majority party and one for the minority party. These two men have been charged with crimes because of evidence, not because of who the President was when the investigations began. Instead of commenting on ongoing investigations and prosecutions, the job of the President of the United States is to defend the Constitution and protect the impartial administration of justice.”
08.28.2018	“We should not think that what John McCain would want us to do in this time and place is in any way reducible to marble. Because, just as America is not the sum of her cities, so too the United States Senate is not the sum of its buildings.” Video of Senator Sasse's speech is available here or by clicking on the image above U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, spoke on the need to rightly remember Senator McCain. Excerpts of the Senator Sasse’s speech are below: “So, how do we honor this man? There's a lot of talk around here right now about what we should do to honor John McCain and it's an important conversation. My understanding is that the two leaders are going to get together and they're going to put together a commission to deliberate over the next many weeks or months about the proper way to honor John McCain. … “So, there are important things to talk about and, yet, I want to urge one bit of caution. Which is, we should not think that what John McCain would want us to do in this time and place is in any way reducible to marble. Because, just as America is not the sum of her cities, so too the United States Senate is not the sum of its buildings. The United States Senate is not the places where we meet. “As John reminded us in his farewell charge, read posthumously yesterday, America is an idea. America is a cause. America is about liberty. America is about justice. America is about universal human dignity. And even though John could often run over you when you were having a debate … probably more than any person I've ever met, John actually believed in universal human dignity. … “[W]hen the public looks at this institution right now, when the public looks to this city, they don't see a place that looks like its beating heart is to proclaim that universal American idea. To proclaim that American sense that everybody is created with infinite worth. And yet, though we know that, we're not doing that much about it. And this institution, most of the time, we finger point. We don't problem solve. And the public is groaning for us to do better. “The last few years should be blinking red lights for all of us who are privileged to serve here for a time. When the American people look at Washington, they rightly think that it's shady for cabinet members and their spouses to be raising money from foreign sources. “When the American people look at Washington, they rightly think that there's a whole lot of shady going on and that people's taxes and their finances outta be disclosed when they're running for an office of public trust. “When the American people look at Washington, they don't see most members of Congress as stewards of the public trust, but rather as hypocrites with taxpayer-funded sexual harassment settlements. “When the American people look at Washington, they think it's weird that the average member of Congress has an investment portfolio that grows much faster than the market average, and when people leave jobs in this institution, they often head for cush jobs on K Street, rather than moving back home which is where they said there were going to end up after they ran for office. “We've seen multiple indictments across both the legislative and executive branches just in recent weeks in this town. Is it any wonder that the American people look at us and they wonder if we really care about the crisis of public trust? Is it any wonder that John McCain was impatient with the pace of us tackling big problems in this place? … “[W]hen we get back, and as this commission gets kicked off, trying to figure out the proper way to honor John McCain, I plan to make a proposal that we should find a way to honor John McCain, not just in marble, maybe that's a step that's important... But if John McCain were here, I submit to you that John McCain would not be all that concerned about what names and placards and signs we put up on buildings and meeting rooms. I think we should find a way to honor John McCain in a way that John McCain would have seen fit. … “This man is gone and we are surely poorer for it. But we can do something big, that's in line with the spirit of how he wanted to disrupt this place. If we wanted to make both parties uncomfortable -- John was a guy who liked to point both barrels at both parties -- I think we could find a way to do that in a way that the American people would applaud. And I think that might be the right way to honor John McCain. “His willingness to take on everybody and all the sacred cows in this town was why a lot of people hated him. But it's why a lot more people loved him. And I think if we're going to honor his spirit, we outta find a way to do something that's big and disruptive and uncomfortable for Washington, D.C.”
08.28.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade, issued the following response to President Trump. "This is simply wrong. Trade creates American jobs, period. This is basic economics, and actual American experience for the last 75 years."
08.27.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement regarding the possible U.S.-Mexico agreement. “I am working through the details of the possible U.S.-Mexico agreement, but there is reason to worry that this might be a step backward from NAFTA for American families – especially on fundamental issues of presumed expiration of the deal, and empowering government bureaucrats rather than markets to determine the components in cars and other goods.”
08.23.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse wrote to Ronald D. Vitiello, the Acting Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), seeking answers regarding the immigration status and criminal history of Cristhian Bahena Rivera who has been charged with the murder of Mollie Tibbetts. “These are central questions that deserve public answers,” said Senator Sasse separately. “This isn’t the first tragedy to befall our communities. We need to make sure that warning signs weren’t missed as they have been before. This oversight work is important.” Text of Senator Sasse’s letter can be found below and is available here. Dear Mr. Vitiello,On July 18, Mollie Tibbetts, a rising college junior, went out for a jog. That was the last time any of her friends and family saw her alive. After a tense month of searching and holding out hope that she might be alive, police on Tuesday arrested and charged Cristhian Bahena Rivera for her murder after he led investigators to her body, which he had dumped in a cornfield. According to news reports, Rivera chose his victim apparently at random, abducting and murdering her before dragging her body from his trunk to hide it in the field. Local law enforcement indicates that Rivera is illegally present in this country, though his attorney disputes this characterization of his status.Troublingly, this case is far from the only such tragedy to befall the Midlands in recent years, as I have brought to the attention of your predecessors in both the current and previous administration. In January of 2016, an illegal alien, Eswin Mejia, was street racing while intoxicated in Omaha when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of another vehicle. Inside the other vehicle was Sarah Root, who had graduated college just hours before. Ms. Root was rushed to the hospital, where she died from her injuries. In light of Mejia’s past encounters with law enforcement that included a skipped court hearing and a subsequent warrant issued for his arrest, Omaha police requested that the Obama administration detain Mejia, but it refused to do so, allowing Mejia to disappear. He remains at large, and Ms. Root’s grieving family and friends have been deprived of justice.In July of 2017, on a Wednesday afternoon, Nemias Garcia-Velasco—an illegal alien who was who was removed from the United States more than half-a-dozen times and was convicted of falsely claiming U.S. citizenship—was driving at a speed of more than 100 miles per hour on Interstate 80 approaching the Interstate 680 split in Omaha, one of the busiest interchanges in our state. He lost control of the vehicle, hitting a guardrail and a bridge abutment before the van rolled and was engulfed in flames. The crash killed one man and injured a 16-year-old boy. After Garcia-Velasco was taken to the hospital, his blood alcohol content was measured at more than three times the legal limit.In January of this year, an illegal alien named Vismar Carmona-Martinez crashed his car into another vehicle on U.S. Highway 75 in Omaha. The collision killed the driver of the other vehicle, Ann Smock, a grandmother of 9, soon to be 10. According to officials, Carmona-Martinez was speeding and drinking at the time of the crash, registering a blood alcohol level that was three times the legal limit at the time of his arrest on the scene. Moreover, according to news reports, Carmona-Martinez had posted a video to social media earlier in the evening showing him drinking behind the wheel.These cases from our communities form a heartbreaking pattern of dangerous illegal aliens being allowed to remain in this country for years, with deadly consequences for innocent people. This threat to public safety must be addressed. It is the responsibility of ICE to ensure that illegal aliens that pose a danger to public safety are successfully and permanently removed from our communities, and I am eager to work with the administration to address this problem. In light of these events, please answer the following questions: Is Mr. Rivera illegally present in the United States? Has any local law enforcement agency requested that a detainer be placed on Mr. Rivera? Has ICE placed a detainer on Mr. Rivera? Has Mr. Rivera ever been removed to his country of origin from the United States due to unlawful presence or other reason for removability? If so, please provide a list of all of his past departures, including date, process for return, reason(s) for removability, and location in which he was taken into custody. Prior to the events of July 18, 2018, did ICE or any other federal law enforcement agency seek to interview or detain Mr. Rivera? If so, was this effort ever impeded by any state or local jurisdiction due to a so-called “sanctuary” policy? Has ICE ever received any requests from other federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies to detain Mr. Rivera? Please detail each occurrence, including ICE’s response and rationale for action or inaction. What is the extent (if any) of Mr. Rivera’s criminal record? In addition, please detail any pending criminal proceedings as well as any incidents known to ICE in which he was charged but not convicted, in which he was named as an unindicted co-conspirator, or in which law enforcement otherwise had probable cause to believe he had committed a crime or posed a danger to public safety. In the duration of Mr. Rivera’s presence in the United States, did his immigration and criminal record prior to the events of July 18, 2018 make him a priority for removal under DHS policies? Please respond in writing within the next 15 days. If you have any questions, please contact my staff at (202) 224-4224 and know that I am eager to work with you to ensure your answers do not compromise any ongoing investigations or other sensitive law enforcement activities. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely,Senator Ben Sasse
08.23.2018	"It would be a very, very, very bad idea to fire the Attorney General because he's not executing his job as a political hack. That is not the job of the Attorney General." Video of Senator Sasse's speech is available here or by clicking on the image above This afternoon, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor regarding U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions. A transcript of the Senator's speech is found below: I rise today to speak to the issue of the leadership of the Department of Justice. It has been a strange couple of hours around this building -- lots and lots of goofy talk about firing the Attorney General. And I just would like to say in public what I've been saying to my colleagues and a message that I just communicated to the President of the United States. And that is that it would be a very, very, very bad idea to fire the Attorney General because he's not executing his job as a political hack. That is not the job of the Attorney General. The Attorney General's job is to be faithful to the Constitution and to the rule of law. Jeff Sessions just had to issue a statement about two hours ago which I would like to read. The Attorney General says, "while I am Attorney General the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations. I demand the highest standards and where they are not met I take action, however, no nation has a more talented, more dedicated group of law enforcement investigators and prosecutors than the United States. I am proud to serve with them and proud of the work we have done in successfully advancing the rule of law." That's his job. The Attorney General is a man who when he served in this body would have policy disputes with probably all 99 of us... or all 100 of us now... But the 99 people he served alongside. There are a bunch issues where I agree with Jeff Sessions on policy. There are some issues where I disagree with Jeff Sessions on policy. The Democrats disagree with Jeff Sessions on lots of policy but I think everybody in this body knows that Jeff Sessions has been executing his job in a way faithful to his oath of office to the Constitution in trying to defend the rule of law. I think Jeff Sessions' statement today that the U.S. Department of Justice is filled with honorable, dispassionate career prosecutors who execute their job in ways that the American people should be proud of is indisputably true. What he said is something that basically everybody in this body knows and agrees with -- and yet bizarrely there are people in this body now talking like the Attorney General will be fired, should be fired... I'm not sure how to interpret the comments of the last couple of hours but, I guess, I would just like to say, as a member of the Judiciary Committee, and as a member of this body, I find it really difficult to envision any circumstance where I would vote to confirm a successor to Jeff Sessions, if he is fired, because he's executing his job, rather than choosing to act as a partisan hack. I think everybody in this body knows that Jeff Sessions is doing his job honorably and the Attorney General of the United States should not be fired for acting honorably and for being faithful to the rule of law.
08.15.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding Colorado's efforts to compel speech. “You don’t get to choose which parts of the First Amendment you like. Using the state to put someone out of business because they don't share your beliefs is not what we do in America. A state powerful enough to tell bakers what to bake is powerful enough to tell journalists what stories to write. This is not healthy for the country.”
08.13.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after President Trump signed the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. The NDAA included Sasse’s Cyber Solarium Commission legislation. “National defense is the federal government’s top job,” said Sasse. “This legislation does two important things: it emphasizes our nation’s commitment to our military men and women and places a badly needed focus on emerging cyber and security threats around the world. The President signed the Cyber Solarium Commission, a provision I drafted, into law today – that’s good news. Washington should fund this and get to work. For decades, Washington has operated without a cyber strategy, even as our adversary’s attacks became more nefarious. We’re playing a dangerous game of catch up and it’s time we get serious about the threats ahead and get to work drafting a cyber doctrine.” Background on the Cyberspace Solarium Commission: The Cyberspace Solarium Commission was signed into law by President Trump as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019.The United States does not have a coherent cyber doctrine. We do not effectively deter attacks. We do not know how to best organize our government, increase coordination between government agencies, or recruit and retain top talent and expertise for the defense of American interests in cyberspace.To meet these challenges, Senator Sasse proposed a Cyberspace Solarium Commission. Loosely modeled on President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission is designed to develop clear consensus on a strategic approach to protecting and defending the United States in cyberspace. While 21st century threats are more complex and dynamic than the 20th century threat of Soviet Russia, our lack of clarity in the cyber domain makes the imperative for a new “Cyberspace Solarium” greater. America needs its government to do the hard work of developing an intellectual, political, and military framework to defend the nation from cyber threats. The 14-member commission will be composed by representatives from the Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and private sector who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both the cyberspace and national security fields. The Cyberspace Solarium Commission will guide a deliberate, structured debate that will produce a final report that outlines a path forward for the United States Government by September 1, 2019. This report will be submitted to the congressional defense committees, the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.The Commission’s membership will be fourteen individuals who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both cyberspace and national security fields. Members will be: Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, Deputy Director of Homeland Security, Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, three members appointed by Senate majority leader, two members appointed by Senate minority leader, three members appointed by Speaker of the House of Representatives, and two members appointed by minority leader of the House. A more detailed one-pager is available here. Historical Background on Eisenhower’s Project Solarium: Under the Eisenhower Administration, Project Solarium produced the strategy that would guide American policy for much of the Cold War.In May 1953, President Eisenhower established a secret panel of experts to review Cold War strategy and develop a range of policy responses to address the growing threat from the Soviet Union. This became known as Project Solarium and is considered one of the best examples of American long-term strategic planning for national security.President Eisenhower commissioned three teams of experts, including Russia expert and strategist George Kennan, the author of “The Sources of Soviet Conduct,” to advocate for an assigned policy approach and develop options for the United States Government to pursue. The White House was given three strategies: containment, deterrence, and rollback. President Eisenhower eventually decided to combine the work of all three teams and issue a new security directive, NSC 162/2, that provided the foundation for his “New Look” at U.S. grand strategy.
08.01.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act passed the Senate. This year’s NDAA included Sasse’s Cyber Solarium Commission legislation and now heads to the President’s desk. “This is a critical step but, frankly, Washington is late to the game and we're going to need to hustle," said Sasse. "The painful truth is that America doesn't have a cyber strategy but our enemies do. Russia, China, and others are hacking our data, attacking our infrastructure, and working to exploit divisions between Americans. Right now, we're not doing enough to deter these attacks. America has to draw up our cyber playbook. The Cyber Solarium Commission, included in this year’s national defense bill, will lead a top to bottom review and build a cyber doctrine to protect our interests. Let's get to work." Background on the Cyberspace Solarium Commission: The Cyberspace Solarium Commission has been included in the final National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019 negotiated between the Senate and House.The United States does not have a coherent cyber doctrine. We do not effectively deter attacks. We do not know how to best organize our government, increase coordination between government agencies, or recruit and retain top talent and expertise for the defense of American interests in cyberspace.To meet these challenges, Senator Sasse has proposed a Cyberspace Solarium Commission. Loosely modeled on President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission is designed to develop clear consensus on a strategic approach to protecting and defending the United States in cyberspace. While 21st century threats are more complex and dynamic than the 20th century threat of Soviet Russia, our lack of clarity in the cyber domain makes the imperative for a new “Cyberspace Solarium” greater. America needs its government to do the hard work of developing an intellectual, political, and military framework to defend the nation from cyber threats.If enacted into law, the 14-member commission will be composed by representatives from the Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and private sector who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both the cyberspace and national security fields. The Cyberspace Solarium Commission will guide a deliberate, structured debate that will produce a final report that outlines a path forward for the United States Government by September 1, 2019. This report will be submitted to the congressional defense committees, the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.The Commission’s membership will be fourteen individuals who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both cyberspace and national security fields. Members will be: Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, Deputy Director of Homeland Security, Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, three members appointed by Senate majority leader, two members appointed by Senate minority leader, three members appointed by Speaker of the House of Representatives, and two members appointed by minority leader of the House. A more detailed one-pager is available here. Historical Background on Eisenhower’s Project Solarium: Under the Eisenhower Administration, Project Solarium produced the strategy that would guide American policy for much of the Cold War.In May 1953, President Eisenhower established a secret panel of experts to review Cold War strategy and develop a range of policy responses to address the growing threat from the Soviet Union. This became known as Project Solarium and is considered one of the best examples of American long-term strategic planning for national security.President Eisenhower commissioned three teams of experts, including Russia expert and strategist George Kennan, the author of “The Sources of Soviet Conduct,” to advocate for an assigned policy approach and develop options for the United States Government to pursue. The White House was given three strategies: containment, deterrence, and rollback. President Eisenhower eventually decided to combine the work of all three teams and issue a new security directive, NSC 162/2, that provided the foundation for his “New Look” at U.S. grand strategy.
08.01.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who urged Turkey’s President to release Pastor Andrew Brunson in March, issued the following statement praising President Trump’s decision to sanction two Turkish officials. “Our fellow citizens aren’t bargaining chips,” said Senator Sasse. “Pastor Brunson is an innocent man. Turkey’s charges are completely unjust and these new sanctions are absolutely warranted. President Erdogan ought to know that the United States expects more from a member of NATO. Free Pastor Brunson now.” Background: In March, Sasse wrote to Turkey’s President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, urging the release of Andrew Brunson, an American pastor who was unjustly detained under false charges of espionage. Today, at the direction of President Trump, the Treasury Department targeted Turkey’s Minister of Justice Abdulhamit Gul and Minister of Interior Suleyman Soylu, both of whom share responsibility for the unjust arrest and detention of Pastor Andrew Brunson.
07.31.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding Facebook’s announcement that it suspended more than 30 inauthentic pages and accounts suspected of engaging in information operations.“Facebook has important roles as a platform for Americans to engage in free and vigorous debate, and as a tech leader that can help expose America’s adversaries who engage in information operations,” said Senator Sasse. “Today, Facebook took a significant step in making this information public and it should continue working to quickly identify who is behind this. Here’s what we already know: Russia and China understand that successful information operations don’t create new problems but exploit existing fissures – that’s why Moscow is working to divide Americans by stoking both sides of nearly every culture war. We know that Russia is coming back in 2018, 2020, and beyond. Americans in Washington and in Silicon Valley have work to do.”
07.24.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade and American agriculture, issued the following statement regarding the White House's plan to spend $12 billion on trade-war bailouts. “This trade war is cutting the legs out from under farmers and White House’s ‘plan’ is to spend $12 billion on gold crutches. America’s farmers don’t want to be paid to lose – they want to win by feeding the world. This administration’s tariffs and bailouts aren’t going to make America great again, they’re just going to make it 1929 again.”
07.23.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after Senate and House negotiators released the final conference report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019. The compromise bill includes Senator Sasse’s Cyberspace Solarium Commission. "This is a critical piece of this year’s defense bill and an important step on cybersecurity," said Senator Sasse. "The Cyberspace Solarium Commission is an opportunity to set America’s cyber doctrine before it’s too late. This is a major victory for those who have been sounding the alarm on cybersecurity. Washington is late to the game – we don’t have a playbook and our enemies are already on offense. This is the new frontier of warfare and America cannot fall behind. The hardest work is still ahead." Background on the Cyberspace Solarium Commission: The Cyberspace Solarium Commission has been included in the final National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019 negotiated between the Senate and House.The United States does not have a coherent cyber doctrine. We do not effectively deter attacks. We do not know how to best organize our government, increase coordination between government agencies, or recruit and retain top talent and expertise for the defense of American interests in cyberspace.To meet these challenges, Senator Sasse has proposed a Cyberspace Solarium Commission. Loosely modeled on President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission is designed to develop clear consensus on a strategic approach to protecting and defending the United States in cyberspace. While 21st century threats are more complex and dynamic than the 20th century threat of Soviet Russia, our lack of clarity in the cyber domain makes the imperative for a new “Cyberspace Solarium” greater. America needs its government to do the hard work of developing an intellectual, political, and military framework to defend the nation from cyber threats.If enacted into law, the 14-member commission will be composed by representatives from the Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and private sector who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both the cyberspace and national security fields. The Cyberspace Solarium Commission will guide a deliberate, structured debate that will produce a final report that outlines a path forward for the United States Government by September 1, 2019. This report will be submitted to the congressional defense committees, the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.The Commission’s membership will be fourteen individuals who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both cyberspace and national security fields. Members will be: Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, Deputy Director of Homeland Security, Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, three members appointed by Senate majority leader, two members appointed by Senate minority leader, three members appointed by Speaker of the House of Representatives, and two members appointed by minority leader of the House. A more detailed one-pager is available here. Historical Background on Eisenhower’s Project Solarium: Under the Eisenhower Administration, Project Solarium produced the strategy that would guide American policy for much of the Cold War.In May 1953, President Eisenhower established a secret panel of experts to review Cold War strategy and develop a range of policy responses to address the growing threat from the Soviet Union. This became known as Project Solarium and is considered one of the best examples of American long-term strategic planning for national security.President Eisenhower commissioned three teams of experts, including Russia expert and strategist George Kennan, the author of “The Sources of Soviet Conduct,” to advocate for an assigned policy approach and develop options for the United States Government to pursue. The White House was given three strategies: containment, deterrence, and rollback.President Eisenhower eventually decided to combine the work of all three teams and issue a new security directive, NSC 162/2, that provided the foundation for his “New Look” at U.S. grand strategy.
07.16.2018	“We did not negotiate from a position of strength. We acted from a position of weakness. As a result, one of the world's worst despots walked away today from Helsinki with a win.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse spoke on the Senate floor tonight about the President’s comments about Vladimir Putin today in Helsinki. Video is available here or by clicking on the image above. A transcript of the Senator’s remarks is found below: I come to the floor to talk about what happened in Helsinki today. Let's not mince words. Today was a terrible day for the American brand, for the American people, and for all of our allies. We did not negotiate from a position of strength. We acted from a position of weakness. As a result, one of the world's worst despots walked away today from Helsinki with a win. Vladimir Putin is leaving Helsinki with an undeserved legitimacy. The United States took a loss today when we backed away from our long-standing commitment to principled American leadership and, frankly, we walked away from basic reality. Today the press asked the President of the United States who he believed on the subject of Russian information operations in the U.S. In 2016. Did he believe in the men and women in the U.S. Intelligence community or did he believe in Vladimir Putin, a member of the Russian intelligence community? A thug turned Russian despot. The choice here was between people who are risking their lives on behalf of our freedom and people who go around the world taking people's lives to limit freedom. The President of the United States, how did he answer? He answered that he didn't see "any reason" why Putin would have interfered in the U.S. Election. Make no mistake, Putin has a reason. The reason is clear to all those who have been watching growing Russian authoritarianism in recent years. Putin wants to weaken the United States' Government. Putin wants to make the American people believe that our system of government isn't any different than our thugocracy. Putin wants to destroy NATO, which isn't just an alliance, it's arguably the most important military alliance in two millennia. Undermine confidence in self-government not only in this country but around the world. That's why Putin, a Soviet-style dictator, who thinks more about American elections than he ever thinks about his sham elections, attacked us in 2016. It's why he's planning to attack America this fall in 2018. It's why there are ongoing information operations against the U.S. and against our public at present as everyone who goes into the SCIF and reads their intelligence briefing knows. It's why Putin is planning to attack the U.S. 2020 election already. And that's why the men and women of the U.S. intelligence community unanimously and without any regard to party understand that Putin waged an information operation against the United States in 2016. And that's why Dan Coats, an esteemed former member of this body, went to the press today -- not six months ago -- went to the press today and reaffirmed with "our assessment of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and their ongoing pervasive efforts to undermine our democracy," remain the opinion of the U.S. Intelligence community. This isn't a question of Republican versus Democrats. This is a question of patriotism versus deciding that you want to be on the side of sowing discord and doubt in America. We shouldn't sugar coat this. Vladimir Putin is a despot and he's propped up by a band of oligarchs every bit as corrupt as he is. Putin fakes democracy while preventing free and fair elections. Putin funnels massive amounts of Russian wealth from his people to himself and to his cronies and he keeps an iron grip on the press. These matters are not matters of dispute. It's not on the one hand and on the other hand -- 'oh, some people are saying.' The Russian people know who Vladimir Putin is. You can ask the leaders of political opposition in that country who try to get there to be a free or fair election. You can ask the human rights activists or the international observers who try to speak up against what he's done or who show up in my office and give firsthand accounts of certain situations in which Putin has intervened. You can ask the journalists who try to expose corruption in that country. You know who these men and women often end up being? The men and women who randomly disproportionately happen to fall out of the fifth story windows of office buildings in Moscow and St. Petersburg. They are people who randomly happen to show up in one car accidents that either are never investigated or when they're investigated unfortunately there weren't witnesses and there are never prosecutions. Vladimir Putin is working overtime to make the Soviet Union great again. Over the past decade he has carried out an aggressive, often brutal expansionist campaign. In 2008, he invaded next-door Georgia. In 2014, he invaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea. He provided military support to the Assad regime and Syria. Russian troops are responsible for the deaths of thousands of civilians. Under the guise of attacking the Islamic State, Russia has targeted hospitals and schools and many other civilian locations. Putin is currently flexing his muscle across Europe although his preference there is always for more subtle means than tanks and Kalashnikovs if he can get away from it. One, he has more deniability and two, it's cheaper. In 2007, Estonia was hit with cyberwar attacks originating in Russia -- the beginning of a campaign of cyberwarfare that has become one of Mr. Putin's primary tools. Not only in the Ukraine and the Baltics but in Germany and France as recently as last year, Russian hackers attempted to interfere in elections to disrupt parliamentary proceedings and to shut down media operations. This is in addition to trying to put his thumb on the scale for pro-Putin parties across Europe, including by spreading misinformation through influential Russian-backed and Russian-originating social media accounts. These questions are not actually gray. Any member of this body who does their homework, any member of the House down the hall that does their homework, and lots and lots of the good and well-meaning that serve around the President who do their homework know these things to be true. These questions are not in dispute. Putin's most daring performance to date, though, was deciding to take on the most powerful country in the world, an influence operation inside the United States. National political committees in 2016 saw their computer networks breached and their data stolen. Vladimir Putin isn't obsessed with the ups and downs of political life here in the U.S. He isn't an agent of one party or the other, one candidate or the other. Vladimir Putin is an agent of chaos and his objective is to undermine trust. His objective is to make Americans doubt ourselves and doubt whether or not U.S. Leadership over the last 75 years has been a good or a bad thing and to doubt whether or not we should keep our word to our allies. Vladimir Putin's objective is to make us think that there's no difference between countries on the global stage that believe in human rights, that believe in free press, free religion, free assembly and free speech versus those who don't. Vladimir Putin's goal is to preach a moral equivalency that allows his thugocracy to be no less ugly than what happens in our country where people who often disagree decide to argue by means of reason and persuasion, not by violence. His goals aren't that hard to figure out. His enemy is trust and good faith. Vladimir Putin is trying to create mistrust in this country. And today the President of the United States decided to let Vladimir Putin off the hook, and in so doing, he creates an incentive for Putin to ratchet up his campaigns of misinformation. This should be a time for all Americans to stand together against what Putin's doing. It's a fundamental part of the President's job to articulate basic truths. And while we're being clear about who Vladimir Putin is, we should also be clear about who we are. The American people are a people, and we are a nation that believes in human dignity. We believe that this isn't just true of 320 million Americans. It's true of 7.5 billion people across this globe. We believe in free speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, the right of protest not because the government gives us those rights but God created us with dignity. Government is not the author or source of people's rights. Governments are just tools to secure the rights that people have by virtue of having been created with dignity. In other words, we believe the very stuff that terrifies Vladimir Putin. Vladimir Putin believes only that might makes right. Americans don't believe that. We never have and may we never devolve to believing only that. We're dedicated to the thesis that the dignity of every person is worth protecting. It is not the job of the United States Government to be the policeman of every nation on Earth, but it is most clearly part of the United States' job to articulate on the global stage things that are true of everyone, everywhere. We are dedicated to the idea that humans should flourish. Vladimir Putin is dedicated to the opposite. He crushes men, women, and children underfoot for the purposes of keeping his hold on power. Americans do not stand with Vladimir Putin. Americans stand with the Russian champions of liberty and of free speech and freedom of religion and freedom of press and freedom of assembly and the right of protest against tyrants like Vladimir Putin. We believe in peace through strength and we believe in basic moral clarity. And that's why in the face of the world's two most destructive wars, Americans went and created the international order. It is an American-led international order. The international order embodies America's fundamental values and we push back against the drift to old world authoritarianism in all its forms, the very things that Vladimir Putin lusts after. This world isn't made for the elites. But it is made for American interests to be articulated because we are the de facto leader of the free world, and that's why we've always negotiated from a position of strength. Sadly today we negotiated from a position of weakness. In previous years, many Americans, myself included, have spoken out against the crazy idea that America could somehow lead from behind. Today America decided to simply give in. On the floor tonight... as I came to the floor tonight, the President tweeted that, "in order to build a brighter future, we cannot remain exclusively focused on the past." Fair enough, but let's talk about that future. What do we want from it? And at what cost? Is the cost of the future that President Trump wants the sacrificing of American moral leadership on the global stage? Is it walking away from the idea that 7.5 billion people have been created with dignity? Is it walking away from the idea that America fundamentally announces to the world that we believe that everybody has the rights of free speech, press, religion, assembly, and protest? Not because a government might decide to condescend and grant you this right but because the government's job is to serve the people by preserving these rights which come from nature and nature's God? The problem today is not the United States. The problem today is not the Russian people. The problem that needed to be named today was Vladimir Putin. Instead, our President decided to advance a fake moral equivalency that plays right into the hands of Vladimir Putin's bloody hands. Everyone in this body should be disgusted by what happened in Helsinki today. I yield the floor, Mr. President.
07.16.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the President’s statement that he holds “both countries responsible” for the deteriorated relationship between the United States and Russia. “This is bizarre and flat-out wrong. The United States is not to blame. America wants a good relationship with the Russian people but Vladimir Putin and his thugs are responsible for Soviet-style aggression. When the President plays these moral equivalence games, he gives Putin a propaganda win he desperately needs.”
07.09.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. "Brett Kavanaugh is a serious jurist known for careful deliberation. This doesn’t matter to many on the left. Sadly, the #Resistance is going to try to bork him by portraying him as a cross between Lex Luthor and Darth Vader. This isn’t the apocalypse – this is an opportunity to thoroughly review Kavanaugh’s record, debate this seriously, and celebrate our system of checks, balances, and limited government."
06.27.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy’s retirement and the upcoming confirmation process. “Justice Kennedy will retire in July and the Supreme Court returns in October, so the Senate ought to spend August and September confirming the next Justice,” said Senator Sasse. “America has an opportunity to do some civics education – a chance to celebrate our system of checks, balances, and limited government. President Trump has an opportunity to keep his promise and put another serious constitutionalist on the court. The Senate has an opportunity to promote serious public deliberation.” “This news just broke and Washington is already gearing up for Red vs Blue blood sport. Americans ought to aim higher because, as Justice Kennedy put it, ‘our system presumes that there are certain principles that are more important than the temper of the times.’ Let’s get to work.”
06.27.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse continued his work on behalf of Nebraska’s ranchers and haulers by filing the Transporting Livestock Across America Safely Act as an amendment to the Farm Bill. Sasse’s amendment would give American agriculture the flexibility to safely transport livestock by rolling back the Department of Transportation’s mandatory rest time that puts livestock at risk, especially during summer or winter months.“It’s Nebraska’s job to feed the world — and I’ll bet on our producers to always answer that call,” said Senator Sasse. “The last thing our ranchers and haulers need are regulations that endanger livestock and we need to address this in the Farm Bill. My amendment is about getting Washington out of the way and letting Nebraska agriculture lead with common sense. We have the opportunity to do something good for ranchers, good for haulers, and good for livestock.”This amendment to the Farm Bill is identical to legislation Sasse introduce this spring and was supported by the Nebraska Farm Bureau, the Nebraska Cattlemen, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, U.S. Cattlemen’s Association, the Livestock Marketing Association, and others.Sasse was joined by Senators Daines (R-MT), Hoeven (R-ND), Jones (D-AL), Risch (R-ID), Tester (D-MT), Heitkamp (D-ND), Ernst (R-IA), Rubio (R-FL), Crapo (R-ID), Paul (R-KY), Enzi (R-WY), Smith (D-MN), and Rounds (R-SD) in introducing his amendment.Background:On December 18, 2017, the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) required commercial vehicle drivers to install an electronic logging device (ELD) in their truck to track compliance with Hours of Service (HOS) rules. FMCSA exempted livestock haulers from this requirement until March 18, 2018 and a congressional delay has extended it through September 30, 2018.Currently, for livestock and insects, HOS rules require that haulers turn on their ELD after they cross a 150-air mile radius of the origin of their load (such as cattle). After crossing a 150-air mile radius, haulers must start tracking their on-duty time and can only drive 11 hours before taking a mandatory 10-hour rest time.The inflexibility of these regulations will be costly for haulers and place the well-being and welfare of insects, cattle, hogs, and other livestock at risk. Current law does not allow flexibility for livestock and insects to reach their destination given the vast geography of production and processing facilities, most often spanning from coastal states to the Midwest. Extended stops for a hauler, which would be necessitated by these HOS regulations, are especially dangerous for livestock during summer or winter months; high humidity and winter temperatures with below freezing windchills cause significant stress on livestock.The Transporting Livestock Across America Safely (TLAAS) Act addresses these problems and eases the burden of these far-reaching HOS and ELD regulations for haulers of livestock or insects.Specifically, the Sasse legislation: -Provides that HOS and ELD requirements are inapplicable until after a driver travels more than 300-air miles from their source. Drive time for HOS purposes does not start until after 300-air mile threshold.-Exempts loading and unloading times from the HOS calculation of driving time.-Extends the HOS on-duty time maximum hour requirement from 11 hours to a minimum of 15 hours and a maximum of 18 hours of on-duty time.-Grants flexibility for drivers to rest at any point during their trip without counting against HOS time.-Allows drivers to complete their trip – regardless of HOS requirements – if they come within 150-air miles of their delivery point.-After the driver completes their delivery and the truck is unloaded, the driver will take a break for a period that is 5 hours less than the maximum on-duty time (10 hours if a 15-hour drive time).
06.26.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in favor of free speech rights for pro-life crisis pregnancy centers in NIFLA v Becerra. “This pro-speech, pro-life decision is great news for everyone who loves the First Amendment. The Supreme Court got this right: government should not force Americans to contradict their deepest beliefs with mandatory, state-sponsored speech. We want to work out disagreements with passionate debate and honest persuasion, not government-mandated scripts.”
06.25.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade, issued the following statement after the President criticized Harley-Davidson’s response to new tariffs. “This will go over like a Vespa at Sturgis. The problem isn’t that Harley is unpatriotic - it’s that tariffs are stupid. They’re tax increases on Americans, they don’t work, and apparently we’re going to see more of this.”
06.22.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding reports that American military aircraft and pilots have been targeted by laser attacks in the South China Sea. “The use of lasers to target American aircraft in the South China Sea is yet another example of China's overt aggression in the region. I hope Secretary Mattis raises these incidents and others in his meetings with President Xi.”
06.21.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the death of Charles Krauthammer. "For decades, Charles Krauthammer shaped debate, politics, and conservatism in our country. His intellectual firepower was breathtaking, but what struck me in conversation after conversation with him was his unfailing commitment to treat every individual in a debate with dignity. His thoughtful voice and powerful work to elevate discourse in America will be missed.”
06.20.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding his work on two legislative proposals to keep families together and the President’s new executive order that halts the administration’s April policy.“Three things are true: First, default family separation is cruel – kids ought to stay with their parents whenever possible. Second, our immigration policy is broken – dumb policies are magnets for human traffickers and the unsecure border is a national security risk. Third, Americans don’t use children as political hostages – anyone trying to use this humanitarian crisis for politics should be ashamed. I’ve called on the President to end this new, discretionary policy and I’m committed to working with my colleagues on legislative solutions as well. The administration started changing course today and Congress can pass legislation today – let’s get this done.”Background:Senator Sasse was one of the first Republican Senators to call on President Trump to immediately end the administration’s new default family separation policy. Sasse has worked with Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) as original cosponsors of two legislative proposals to keep families together and end catch-and-release. Today, the President signed an executive order, available here.
06.18.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019, which included 12 Sasse-led priorities. “Defense is job one for the federal government and that’s why this legislation matters. This is a critical opportunity to ensure a strong commitment to our military and consider new emerging threats against our nation, like cyberwarfare. While our adversaries have turned to cyber to target America, Washington has failed to create a cyber doctrine to protect our interests. This year, I proposed the formation of a Cyber Solarium Commission that will be responsible for drafting a serious cyber doctrine for the United States — something Washington has been putting off for far too long.” Background: A short description of the Senator Sasse’s initiatives that were adopted are found below. Cyber Solarium Commission – This is the committee’s largest cyber security undertaking and something Senator Sasse has worked on for more than a year. More on the commission, a bold project to forge consensus around an American cyber strategy for the 21st century, can be found here. Personnel Management Authority for Director of Strategic Capabilities Office – Extends direct hiring authority for experts in science and engineering to the Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) and the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx). Meeting demand for cyberspace career fields in the Reserve Component – Encourages DoD to use innovative approaches to incorporate the reserve component of the military into Cyber Command’s Cyber Mission Force. Hyper Velocity Projectile (HVP) – Requires the Director of the Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) to deliver a report to the congressional defense committees on the status of the Hyper Velocity Projectile (HVP) program. The increased velocity, precision, and extended range of the HVP will provide the Navy, Army, and Marine Corps with the capability to address a variety of current and future threats from the land, sea, and air. Hybrid Warfare in DOD Professional Military Education curriculum – Requires DoD to submit a report to the congressional defense committees explaining how it will emphasize intellectual leadership and military professionalism in the art and science of warfighting, including how the Department is integrating the study of hybrid warfare into its Professional Military Education (PME) curriculum. Hybrid warfare entails adversaries using nonmilitary tools to pursue their interests. This emphasis on PME is in line with the 2018 National Defense Strategy. Using data analytics to develop advanced assignment matching systems – Encourages DoD to continue developing advanced assignment matching systems and policies based on data analytics to more efficiently match military personnel with open billets. This will reduce the need for Permanent Change of Station (PCS) moves by military families. Extended Range Cannon Artillery program – Invests in the accelerated development of extended range cannon artillery. Land-Based Anti-Ship Missile (LBASM) – Requires the Secretary of the Army to brief congressional defense committees on how the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force are collaborating to field compatible sensor technology and fire control systems that will allow Army and Marine Corps rocket artillery to sink enemy ships with land-based anti-ship missiles. Low-Cost Tactical Extended Range Missile (LC-TERM) – Encourages collaboration between the Army and Marine Corps to field a mobile, surface-to-surface missile to provide all-weather fire support at distances between 200 and 499 kilometers. Such an effort would fill an immediate capability gap until the Army’s Long-Range Precision Fires (LRPF) program fields a more advanced capability in 2025. Supporting Partnerships between University Affiliated Research Centers and the Department of Defense - Invests in research and development partnerships with institutions like the University of Nebraska. Air Force Light Attack Aircraft Program - Invests in greater interoperability with a range of allies, frees high-end aircraft to focus on deterring near-peer adversaries, and better tailors Air Force resources to accomplish its assigned missions and support the Joint Force. Department of Defense Professional Military Education (PME) Review – Requires a non-DoD entity with expertise in higher education analysis to review senior level DoD schools to find ways to increase their rigor and effectiveness. This emphasis on PME is in line with the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
06.09.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade and agriculture, released the following statement after President Trump discussed the possible elimination of G-7 trade barriers and tariffs, but also expressed that the United States is being taken advantage of in all of our trading relationships. "If the President is actually serious about leading the expansion of a G-7 no-tariff, free-tradeagreement, that's tremendous, tremendous news -- for the U.S. and for the free nations of the world. I would happily carry his bag to every single meeting of those negotiations. But the path to more trade begins with less whining on the global stage. The simple fact is that more trade has been overwhelmingly beneficial to U.S. families and to net U.S. job creation for 75 straight years, and pretending America has been taken advantage of -- that is, pretending that we're losers -- isn't true. The constant victim-talk doesn't help anyone. It doesn't help trade negotiations. And it doesn't help U.S. citizens understand the disruption in our economy that is actually coming from more technology and more automation, not from free trade agreements -- which have overwhelmingly benefited American families. If the President were to use his negotiating skills to advance more trade, that would be very good news indeed. Let's see what happens."
06.08.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after President Trump called for Russia to be reinstated into the G7. "This is weak. Putin is not our friend and he is not the President's buddy. He is a thug using Soviet-style aggression to wage a shadow war against America, and our leaders should act like it."
06.05.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after it was announced that the Senate would remain in session for the majority of August. Last month in a letter to Majority Leader McConnell, Sasse called for the Senate to work through August. “The Senate doesn't work hard enough, so this is good news. I've been asking Majority Leader McConnell to schedule more votes and to require that Senators who say they want to filibuster legislation actually have to show up and make their case. While it's obviously important that Senators listen to and learn from our constituents at home, we need to pass a real budget this summer, not yet another pork-filled omnibus. Let's get to work."
06.04.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s 7-2 decision in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. “A supermajority 7-2 decision protecting the free exercise of religion is good news for all defenders of the First Amendment. But Justice Thomas is right: The Court punted on many issues, and will hopefully safeguard freedom of speech more fully in future opinions.”
05.31.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that the administration will impose massive steel and aluminum tariffs on our allies in Canada, Mexico, and the European Union. "This is dumb. Europe, Canada, and Mexico are not China, and you don’t treat allies the same way you treat opponents. We’ve been down this road before—blanket protectionism is a big part of why America had a Great Depression. 'Make America Great Again' shouldn’t mean 'Make America 1929 Again.'"
05.25.2018	National Defense Authorization Act Includes 12 Sasse-led Priorities U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the Senate Armed Services Committee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019, which included 12 Sasse-led priorities. "Washington isn’t often a serious place, but writing the defense bill in committee this week was infinitely more productive than the camera strutting Congress usually does," said Senator Sasse. "Our committee’s debate isn’t glamorous but it’s critically important because national defense is the federal government’s first priority. There’s a lot Washington doesn’t get right but this was an encouraging step."While the final text of the NDAA is embargoed by the Senate Armed Services Committee, a short description of the Senator Sasse’s initiatives that were adopted are found below. Cyber Solarium Commission – This is the committee’s largest cyber security undertaking and something Senator Sasse has worked on for more than a year. More on the commission, a bold project to forge consensus around an American cyber strategy for the 21st century, can be found here. Personnel Management Authority for Director of Strategic Capabilities Office – Extends direct hiring authority for experts in science and engineering to the Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) and the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx). Meeting demand for cyberspace career fields in the Reserve Component – Encourages DoD to use innovative approaches to incorporate the reserve component of the military into Cyber Command’s Cyber Mission Force. Hyper Velocity Projectile (HVP) – Requires the Director of the Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) to deliver a report to the congressional defense committees on the status of the Hyper Velocity Projectile (HVP) program. The increased velocity, precision, and extended range of the HVP will provide the Navy, Army, and Marine Corps with the capability to address a variety of current and future threats from the land, sea, and air. Hybrid Warfare in DOD Professional Military Education curriculum – Requires DoD to submit a report to the congressional defense committees explaining how it will emphasize intellectual leadership and military professionalism in the art and science of warfighting, including how the Department is integrating the study of hybrid warfare into its Professional Military Education (PME) curriculum. Hybrid warfare entails adversaries using nonmilitary tools to pursue their interests. This emphasis on PME is in line with the 2018 National Defense Strategy. Using data analytics to develop advanced assignment matching systems – Encourages DoD to continue developing advanced assignment matching systems and policies based on data analytics to more efficiently match military personnel with open billets. This will reduce the need for Permanent Change of Station (PCS) moves by military families. Extended Range Cannon Artillery program – Invests in the accelerated development of extended range cannon artillery. Land-Based Anti-Ship Missile (LBASM) – Requires the Secretary of the Army to brief congressional defense committees on how the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force are collaborating to field compatible sensor technology and fire control systems that will allow Army and Marine Corps rocket artillery to sink enemy ships with land-based anti-ship missiles. Low-Cost Tactical Extended Range Missile (LC-TERM) – Encourages collaboration between the Army and Marine Corps to field a mobile, surface-to-surface missile to provide all-weather fire support at distances between 200 and 499 kilometers. Such an effort would fill an immediate capability gap until the Army’s Long-Range Precision Fires (LRPF) program fields a more advanced capability in 2025. Supporting Partnerships between University Affiliated Research Centers and the Department of Defense - Invests in research and development partnerships with institutions like the University of Nebraska. Air Force Light Attack Aircraft Program - Invests in greater interoperability with a range of allies, frees high-end aircraft to focus on deterring near-peer adversaries, and better tailors Air Force resources to accomplish its assigned missions and support the Joint Force. Department of Defense Professional Military Education (PME) Review – Requires a non-DoD entity with expertise in higher education analysis to review senior level DoD schools to find ways to increase their rigor and effectiveness. This emphasis on PME is in line with the 2018 National Defense Strategy. UPDATE: NDDAA Cybersecurity Solarium Commission text available here.
05.24.2018	"We don’t have a playbook. It’s time to draft one." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse announced that the National Defense Authorization Act of 2019 includes the Cyberspace Solarium Commission, a bold project to forge consensus around an American cyber strategy for the 21st century. Modeled after President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission to develop America’s “New Look” strategy for the Cold War, Sasse’s Cybersecurity Solarium Commission was passed by the Senate Armed Services Committee last night. "The United States does not have a serious cyber strategy but our enemies do," said Senator Sasse. "Hybrid warfare is already here and America is not ready. We desperately need a top-to-bottom review of our cyber posture. After years of cyber attacks from adversaries like Russia, China, and North Korea, Washington has admitted that we don’t have a broadly understood cyber doctrine and we aren’t effectively deterring these attacks. We lack a doctrine that defines how, when, and where we play offense and defense. We don’t have a playbook. It’s time to draft one." Background on the Cyberspace Solarium Commission: The United States does not have a coherent cyber doctrine. We do not effectively deter attacks. We do not know how to best organize our government, increase coordination between government agencies, or recruit and retain top talent and expertise for the defense of American interests in cyberspace.To meet these challenges, Senator Sasse has proposed a Cyberspace Solarium Commission. Loosely modeled on President Eisenhower’s 1953 Solarium Commission, the Cyberspace Solarium Commission is designed to develop clear consensus on a strategic approach to protecting and defending the United States in cyberspace. While 21st century threats are more complex and dynamic than the 20th century threat of Soviet Russia, our lack of clarity in the cyber domain makes the imperative for a new “Cyber Solarium” greater. America needs its government to do the hard work of developing an intellectual, political, and military framework to defend the nation from cyber threats.The Cyberspace Solarium Commission has been included in the Senate Armed Services Committee’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019.If enacted into law, the 13-member commission will be composed by representatives from the Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and private sector who have demonstrated knowledge, expertise, and experience in both the cyberspace and national security fields. The Cyberspace Solarium Commission will guide a deliberate, structured debate that will produce a final report that outlines a path forward for the United States Government by September 1, 2019. This report will be submitted to the congressional defense committees, the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of Homeland Security.While final text of the NDAA has been embargoed by the Senate Armed Services Committee, a more detailed one-pager on the commission’s membership, duties, and deadlines is available here. Historical Background on Eisenhower’s Project Solarium: Under the Eisenhower Administration, Project Solarium produced the strategy that would guide American policy for much of the Cold War.In May 1953, President Eisenhower established a secret panel of experts to review Cold War strategy and develop a range of policy responses to address the growing threat from the Soviet Union. This became known as Project Solarium and is considered one of the best examples of American long-term strategic planning for national security.President Eisenhower commissioned three teams of experts, including Russia expert and strategist George Kennan, the author of “The Sources of Soviet Conduct,” to advocate for an assigned policy approach and develop options for the United States Government to pursue. The White House was given three strategies: containment, deterrence, and rollback.President Eisenhower eventually decided to combine the work of all three teams and issue a new security directive, NSC 162/2, that provided the foundation for his “New Look” at U.S. grand strategy.
05.24.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement praising President Trump’s decision to cancel the summit with North Korea. "Kim Jong Un is a murderous despot and habitual liar. The President made the right call to cancel this summit. If North Korea wants diplomacy, it should know that half-measures and spin about its nuclear program won’t cut it.” Kim Jong Un is a murderous despot and habitual liar. The President made the right call to cancel this summit. If North Korea wants diplomacy, it should know that half-measures and spin about its nuclear program won’t cut it. — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) May 24, 2018
05.23.2018	“This bipartisan bill is good for our ranchers, good for our haulers, and good for our livestock.” Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse led a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing the Transporting Livestock Across America Safely Act. Currently, overly strict trucking regulations from the Department of Transportation require mandatory rest time that put livestock at risk, especially during summer or winter months. Senator Sasse’s bipartisan legislation would give American agriculture the flexibility to safely transport livestock.“Nebraska’s economy runs on agriculture," said Senator Sasse. "Our ranchers and haulers are professionals who make the well-being of livestock their top priority and that includes safe transportation. The Department of Transportation’s current regulations endanger livestock during hot summers and cold winters — which Nebraskans know well — causing significant stress on the animals and concern for the drivers. This bipartisan bill is good for our ranchers, good for our haulers, and good for our livestock.” Sasse was joined by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), John Hoeven (R-ND), Doug Jones (D-AL), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rand Paul (R-KY), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Tina Smith (D-MN), and Jon Tester (D-MT). Background:On December 18, 2017, the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) required commercial vehicle drivers to install an electronic logging device (ELD) in their truck to track compliance with Hours of Service (HOS) rules. FMCSA exempted livestock haulers from this requirement until March 18, 2018 and a congressional delay has extended it through September 30, 2018.Currently, for livestock and insects, HOS rules require that haulers turn on their ELD after they cross a 150-air mile radius of the origin of their load (such as cattle). After crossing a 150-air mile radius, haulers must start tracking their on-duty time and can only drive 11 hours before taking a mandatory 10-hour rest time. The inflexibility of these regulations will be costly for haulers and place the well-being and welfare of insects, cattle, hogs, and other livestock at risk. Current law does not allow flexibility for livestock and insects to reach their destination given the vast geography of production and processing facilities, most often spanning from coastal states to the Midwest. Extended stops for a hauler, which would be necessitated by these HOS regulations, are especially dangerous for livestock during summer or winter months; high humidity and winter temperatures with below freezing windchills cause significant stress on livestock. The Transporting Livestock Across America Safely (TLAAS) Act addresses these problems and eases the burden of these far-reaching HOS and ELD regulations for haulers of livestock or insects.Specifically, the Sasse legislation: Provides that HOS and ELD requirements are inapplicable until after a driver travels more than 300-air miles from their source. Drive time for HOS purposes does not start until after 300-air mile threshold. Exempts loading and unloading times from the HOS calculation of driving time. Extends the HOS on-duty time maximum hour requirement from 11 hours to a minimum of 15 hours and a maximum of 18 hours of on-duty time. Grants flexibility for drivers to rest at any point during their trip without counting against HOS time. Allows drivers to complete their trip – regardless of HOS requirements – if they come within 150-air miles of their delivery point. After the driver completes their delivery and the truck is unloaded, the driver will take a break for a period that is 5 hours less than the maximum on-duty time (10 hours if a 15-hour drive time).
05.23.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the administration released its rule ensuring the prohibition of taxpayer funding of abortion providers through Title X, an action Sasse and others called for recently. “This is welcome news. Nebraskans have compassion for babies, for moms, and for families. This announcement recognizes the important distinction between life-affirming community health centers and abortion facilities like Planned Parenthood. This isn’t about cutting funding, it’s about keeping Title X funds – public tax dollars – from abortion businesses. These regulatory steps are good, and it’s time for Congress to step to the plate and put lasting pro-life policies up for votes in the Senate.”
05.22.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Scott Kracl to serve as U.S. Marshal for Nebraska. “Scott Kracl is beginning a new chapter in his work for Nebraskans. Our state is well-served by his commitment and integrity. We wish him the best as he begins this new calling as a U.S. Marshal.” Background: Kracl received the Nebraska State Patrol’s Distinguished Service Award in 2017. He was nominated to the position in April.
05.13.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after suicide bombers in Indonesia targeted three Christian churches. “Absolutely evil. Today, terrorists targeted church going people using children and motorcycles to deliver their bombs. As we’ve seen, non-state actors, in their depravity, are willing to use any ‘tool’ at their disposable, even innocent children. The ideology of those that carry out these attacks is cowardly.”
05.11.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after joining a group of 15 Senators to ask Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to consider cancelling the August state work period. “We have long-term problems that the Congress isn’t serious about fixing,” said Senator Sasse. “And, this is a simple fact: our issues won’t go away while the Senate is spending August elsewhere. The budget will still be broken. We still won’t have serious strategies for the age of cyber and jihad. Putin’s thugs will keep working to divide us. And, we’ll still be on the brink of a trade war. The Senate should stay in session, working overtime. Don’t get me wrong: to represent our states well, we must listen and learn from our constituents. But we can’t keep burying our heads in the sand as if everything will be magically better tomorrow — especially as our adversaries around the world look to get a foot up on us. We have too much work to do.” Senators signing the letter included, Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), David Perdue (R-GA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). Text of the letter can be found here.
05.10.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Committee advanced the nomination of Scott Kracl to serve the District of Nebraska as U.S. Marshal. “Scott Kracl’s commitment to serving Nebraskans spans decades. It is the job of U.S. Marshals to uphold the rule of law and today’s vote in the Judiciary Committee is an important step toward our state benefiting from Scott’s experience and continued service.” Background: Kracl received the Nebraska State Patrol’s Distinguished Service Award in 2017. He was nominated to the position by President Trump in April.
05.08.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement following the President’s announcement today. “The Iran deal has always been terrible. Today is a reminder that if you live by the Presidency, you die by the Presidency. We ought to be clear about this: Donald Trump isn’t ripping up a treaty; he’s walking away from Barack Obama’s personal pledge. Two and a half years ago, President Obama made a bad deal with Iran without support from Congress, and today President Trump is pulling out of President Obama’s personal commitment, and he doesn’t need Congress’s support to do so. American foreign policy makes lasting progress when it is led by the President, approved by Congress, and presented honestly to the American people.”
04.24.2018	“General Nakasone has clear eyes and steel nerves.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Senate’s confirmation of Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone to be Commander of U.S. Cyber Command and Director of the National Security Agency. “General Nakasone has clear eyes and steel nerves. At his confirmation hearing, General Nakasone was appropriately blunt about the fact that America has not responded in a way that is sufficient to change our adversaries’ behavior. The American people don’t have many reasons to be confident in their government in the area of cyber war but General Nakasone brings urgency and seriousness to the problem.” Background: A transcript of the Senator’s March 1, 2018 exchange with General Nakasone is found below. SASSE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to you all. Thanks for your willingness to serve. General, you know that I'm a big fan of yours, and our country's blessed to have you in this new role, so this isn't a hostile question to you. But I want to go back to your exchange with Senator Sullivan. We're four years -- we're 31 years into cyber war, but we're four years into regular attacks against the United States to which we publicly admit we don't respond or we don't respond in any way that's sufficient to change behavior. Your exchange with Senator Sullivan is the most important thing that will happen on Capitol Hill today. We have hundreds of hearings around here; 80 percent of them are fake; 90 percent of them are pointless -- lots and lots of questions that we ask. And they all seem like they're equal, because they're questions, and they go on and on, and senators pontificate. What you just said was that you agreed with Admiral Rogers, I think, right? Admiral Rogers, earlier this week, said that Russia has not received any response from the U.S. sufficient to change their behavior. That's what he said. Do you agree? NAKASONE: It has not changed their behavior. SASSE: And, three years ago, at the OPM hack, we had Obama intelligence chiefs up here, primarily before the Homeland Security committee, and we asked them the exact same questions. "Is there any response from United States government that's sufficient to change the Chinese behavior?" And they said, "Absolutely not." Do you think there's any reason the Chinese should be worried about U.S. response of the president? NAKASONE: Again, I think that our adversaries have not seen our response in sufficient detail to change the behavior. SASSE: So this is, ultimately, not the responsibility of uniformed military to bear the brunt of the hopefully rightful anger and ire of the American people. But their government is failing them. At the top, at the executive and the legislative level, we are not responding in any way that's adequate to the challenge we face. We face, in cyber war -- if we're just playing cyber defense, we have an asymmetric threat against us, because we're the biggest, most advanced economy in the world, we have the most electronics and 90 percent of our critical infrastructure is in the private sector. So we stand to absorb attack after attack after attack, unless we add offensive cyber capabilities. We do have the capabilities. The problem is not technical, but -- if we had the will and the strategy and, adjacent to cyber response, a sense that diplomatic tools and kinetic responses were all on the table. Why should the American people have any confidence in their government right now in the area of cyber war? NAKASONE: So, again, Senator, I would offer, from my comments previously, we have to think of this broadly. How are we going to respond? It's not necessarily always within the military or cyber realm that we're going to do it, but obviously, offering a response in terms of being able to -- to -- an adversary to determine that that is a behavior that we don't accept is important. SASSE: And can you give -- again, let's distinguish among three different groups that have culpability here: the NSA and CYBERCOM and DOD need to present options. We need to have a technically trained workforce that's able to respond. And we need leadership that can be strategic enough to lay out a menu of options. But, ultimately, the top of the executive branch and a legislature that's responsible for oversight is where the people should be angriest (ph). But, if you were going to assess blame right now -- don't put it on the legislature, because somebody else will ask you a hard question in response to that -- but clearly the oversight in this body is woefully inadequate. But, at the top of the DOD world and at the handoff to civilian leadership, what does that conversation look like right now, where a menu of options is presented? And then what happens next? And when will we be more urgent? NAKASONE: So, Senator, you offer a number of different questions that, right now, in my current role, I couldn't give you an informed response. What I think has to happen is, obviously, if confirmed, I provide a series of cyber and military options that's considered by the secretary of defense and, ultimately, the president. But these are only, you know, a realm of one portion of our deterrence, and others will have to bring the whole-of-government piece of what we might offer, Senator. SASSE: In -- when we're in the classified space and we talk about overmatch in every other domain, we know we've got lots and lots of challenges. In the cyber space, are our problems primarily technical? Or are they primarily strategic and will? NAKASONE: So, Senator, I would offer that we have a number of different capabilities, and I don't think that our -- our problems are either of those. I think that what we have to do is to continue to determine what is the best way forward here, what fits within -- within our national strategy, and then act on that, Senator. SASSE: I'm at time, but again, I want to reiterate, our country is blessed to have you in this new role. You're clearly going to be confirmed. Lots of people around you, including me, have great confidence in you. But I do want you to know, I think there is, bubbling up in this body, a little more seriousness about the urgency. And I hope that, at DOD and at NSA, we -- we feel that urgency in response. Thank you, sir.
04.17.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the death of First Lady Barbara Bush. “Barbara Bush lived an extraordinary life of devotion, love, and laughter. She was a blessing to the First Family and the nation. Melissa and I lift up the entire Bush family in our prayers during this time.”
04.14.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Pentagon’s public disclosure that, in the past 24-hours, Russia has increased its online troll activity by 2000%. "Americans need to understand that the wars of the future will look more like this: Russia is investing significant resources to create propaganda and disinformation. Kinetic, cyber, and information contests will overlap more and more in the coming years. The fog of war will not be limited to our situation rooms and battlefields; our enemies will work to create confusion and distrust among Americans here at home."
04.13.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Putin regime’s propaganda that America’s NATO ally Great Britain staged a chemical attack in Syria. “It’s important to remember that Putin isn’t just a murderous liar, he’s a murderous liar with a strategy. Lies are the backbone of Putin’s foreign policy. Moscow constantly works to create fog and doubt, uncertainty and confusion. This is page one of their information operations playbook.”
04.12.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade and agriculture, issued the following statement regarding his meeting with the President today. “The best thing the United States can do to push back against Chinese cheating now is to lead the other eleven Pacific nations that believe in free trade and the rule of law. It is good news that today the President directed Larry Kudlow and Ambassador Lighthizer to negotiate U.S. entry into TPP.”
04.11.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for trade and American agriculture, issued the following statement regarding misguided plans to spend billions of dollars on new subsidy programs during a poorly conceived, tariffs-first trade war. "This administration proposal is Saturday-morning-cartoon central planning. We want more trade, not less. Farmers want to feed the world and win with trade. Now, some in Washington instead want to pay them to lose. That's a bad idea and not a real strategy to fight Chinese cheating."
04.10.2018	"It is insane to think that Russia is anything but an adversary." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the fact that Russia is jamming American drones in Syria."It is insane to think that Russia is anything but an adversary. Americans want to kill ISIS and prevent the normalization of chemical weapons attacks against innocent families – Russia wants to undermine our interests at every turn. Putin is already waging a shadow war with the United States but too many American politicians are asleep on the watch."
04.10.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after President Trump announced his intention to nominate Scott Kracl to serve the District of Nebraska as U.S. Marshal. “U.S. Marshals owe our communities an unwavering commitment to integrity and the rule of law. Scott Kracl has been serving our state for decades as a state patrolman and, in this new calling, Nebraskans will continue to benefit from his character and experience.”
04.06.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has repeatedly called for a coordinated effort targeting Russian diplomats and finances, issued the following statement regarding today's new sanctions on 38 Russian individuals and entities."Good. We've kicked Moscow's spies to the curb and now we're hitting Putin's thugs where it hurts – their fat bank accounts. This is part of the strong message America and our NATO allies have to be sending. The free world isn't going to sit on the sideline while Putin and his crooked oligarchs try to make the Soviet Union great again."
04.05.2018	“He’s threatening to light American agriculture on fire.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who represents one of the most pro-trade states in the country, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s new $100 billion of tariffs.“Hopefully the President is just blowing off steam again but, if he's even half-serious, this is nuts. China is guilty of many things, but the President has no actual plan to win right now. He’s threatening to light American agriculture on fire. Let’s absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this.”
04.04.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after hosting an Agriculture Roundtable with USDA Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs Ted McKinney and some of Nebraska’s key agriculture leaders. Prior to the Under Secretary’s confirmation, Senator Sasse received a commitment from Mr. McKinney to come to Nebraska. “Here’s a fundamental truth: Nobody knows trade better than Nebraska,” said Sasse. “That’s why I keep working to put Nebraskans at the head of the table during these discussions. It’s clear that the anti-trade talk coming out of Washington needs to stop. Those voices would be better served by listening to our state’s producers. Today, farmers, ranchers, and even some FFA students from across the state joined me with this simple message – and it’s a message I hope Washington hears: trade is good.” Background: In 2016, Nebraska exported $6.6 billion in commodities to: CHINA $1.43 billion MEXICO $956 million JAPAN $887.1 million SOUTH KOREA $499.9 million CANADA $433.5 million Nebraska ranks 5th in total ag products exported by value among the 50 states: 1st in total beef exported 8th in total pork exported 3rd in total corn and feed exported 5th in total soybeans exported From 2004 to 2014, Nebraska’s exports have increased 211% to countries with Free Trade Agreements in effect. Attendees: NEFB – Steve Nelson & Mark McHargue NE Cattlemen – Craig Uden & Buck Wehrbein NE Pork Producers – Al Junke NE Sorghum Producers – Don Bloss NE Soybean Assoc. – Dennis Fujan & Ken Boswell NE Wheat Growers – Caroline Brauer NE Corn Growers – Kelly Brunkhorst & Dan Wesely Bryan High School FFA Students Jim Pillen - Columbus Cindi Allen – Ogallala Rod Gangwish – Shelton Jeff Wilmes – Fremont Tom Weitzenkamp – Hooper Alice Licht – Lincoln Todd Schroeder – Wisner Bart Ruth – Rising City
03.26.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has repeatedly called on the administration to lead a coordinated NATO effort that includes the expulsion of Russian diplomats, issued the following statement regarding the President’s order to expel 60 Russian diplomats and similar actions taken by our European allies. “Good. This is the kind of strong and unambiguous message the United States ought to be sending. Vladimir Putin is a despot with blood on his hands. He tried to assassinate an ex-spy and British citizen on NATO soil and the free world cannot ignore his shadow war.”
03.23.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding his opposition to yet another record-setting spending bill that adds $1.3 trillion to the national debt. "Every Republican would vote against this disgusting pork bill if a Democrat were President. This spending kegger is a wildly irresponsible use of the taxpayers' money, and the President should not sign it."
03.22.2018	Senators Ben Sasse (R-Nebraska), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John Kennedy (R-Louisiana), Bill Cassidy M.D. (R-Louisiana), and Dean Heller (R-Nevada) today introduced legislation to fight the opioid epidemic by strengthening penalties for fentanyl distribution and trafficking to ensure they better reflect the serious nature of the crime. Fentanyl is 100 times more powerful than morphine and has played an outsized role in the opioid epidemic. “The opioid crisis is a symptom of America’s loneliness crisis,” said Senator Sasse. “On the demand side, addiction is something that’s tackled best by our families, neighbors, and communities. But, on the supply side, Congress has an important opportunity to crack down on the low-life traffickers who are ripping our communities apart. Modernizing our fentanyl sentencing laws just makes sense.” “Fentanyl is one of the most dangerous drugs there is. It killed more than 20,000 Americans last year and has been a driving force behind the opioid crisis in the United States. But while the epidemic has spiraled, our drug laws have been stuck in the past. This bill will make sure, when it comes to opioid distribution and trafficking, the punishment fits the crime,” said Senator Cotton. “Fentanyl is one of the most deadly drugs on the market and I look forward to working with Senators Cotton, Kennedy, Cassidy, Heller, and Sasse to substantially increase penalties for those who traffic this horrific drug,” said Senator Graham. “I’ll also be working with Senator Cotton and others to explore the possibility of even stronger penalties—that could include the death penalty if the fentanyl results in someone’s death—for those who choose to push this deadly drug into our communities. Increasing these mandatory minimums is well-justified.” “Fentanyl is an incredibly powerful drug. If you are trafficking this deadly drug, you ought to be punished to the full extent of the law. You aren’t going to motivate dealers and traffickers by pleading to their conscience. They know how deadly it is, and they just don’t care. Too many men and women have died as a result of fentanyl; it needs to stop,” said Senator Kennedy. “I am proud to be a part of this important effort.” “Drug traffickers take lives and get away with a slap on the wrist,” said Dr. Cassidy. “This bill ensures those who traffic and deal fentanyl pay a higher price.” Background: This bill will reduce the amount of fentanyl and its analogues required for mandatory sentencing minimums to apply in distribution cases. 20 grams substance containing fentanyl = 10+ years (changes current amount of 400 grams) 5 grams substance containing fentanyl analogue = 10+ years (changes current amount of 100 grams) 2 grams substance containing fentanyl = 5+ years (changes current amount of 40 grams) .5 grams substance containing fentanyl analogue = 5+ years (changes current amount of 10 grams) It will also provide resources to the Post Office to stop shipments of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids arriving from overseas.
03.21.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, spoke on the Senate floor about Vladimir Putin’s sham reelection and the White House's anonymous leaks. Text of Senator Sasse's speech is found below: Mr. President, yesterday, at the White House, two terrible things happened, and it shouldn't be difficult to condemn both of these things at once. First, at the podium in the White House press room, it was suggested that the U.S. Government is unsure if Putin's reelection was perhaps legitimate, free, and fair. Or, perhaps the U.S. is morally indifferent to the question of whether Putin's reelection was fair, free, and legitimate. It was not fair or free or legitimate, and it matters. The second horrible thing that happened yesterday is that the President's confidential briefing materials for his call with Vladimir Putin were anonymously leaked to the public. That should not happen. The president's call, congratulatory call, was terribly ill-advised, but that doesn't change the fact that the leaking of the confidential briefing materials for his call were also wrong. It shouldn't be difficult to say both of these things. They're both true, so we should be able to say both of them at once. Our people are very divided right now, Mr. President. They're unclear about who we are and how we conceive of ourselves on the global stage. Our tribalism has run amok. If you listen to some of our cable news today -- I haven't, but I suspect that what you would find is that on certain networks, there is only discussion of the leaking and no discussion of what a terrible abandonment of American foreign policy yesterday's failure to condemn Putin's phony, sham reelection was, and on the other networks, I imagine you're going to get exactly the opposite story, where the only thing that matters is how stupid this call was to Vladimir Putin and nothing about the leaks. That isn't helpful for building a nation of 320 million people who know what we stand for together. Here's what's true. A President's staff shouldn't leak. In cases of principle, you may need to resign, so resign. Do the right and honorable thing if you believe your conscience is compelled to do so, and resign your position and go out and publicly make a case for why a certain policy is failing. But that's a different thing than anonymously leaking the information that a president has -- not just this President but any President has to make his or her decisions, to deliberate with their staff, to plot their actions. Leaks like this weaken us, both at home in terms of public trust in our institutions and our public servants, and they weaken us abroad in terms of whether or not we have any coherence to who we are as a people and how we make our decisions. But now, as to this decision to fail to condemn Putin's sham reelection, it's very foolhardy. Vladimir Putin is not a friend. Vladimir Putin is a despot. The President of the United States was wrong to congratulate him, and the White House Press Secretary was wrong to duck a simple question about whether or not Putin's reelection was free and fair. It was not. The American people know that, the Russian people know that, and the world knows that. And yesterday, when the White House refused to speak directly and clearly about this matter, we were weakened as a nation and a tyrant was strengthened. Around the world, there are two great symbols of America from this city. The first is the dome of the capitol in which we stand. This building testifies to the strength of our self-government and to our belief in inherent human dignity. But the other symbol that comes from this city that's known around the world is the podium in the White House press room. Tucked into a small room and surrounded by members of a free press, it is simply the free world's biggest megaphone. It symbolizes Americans' commitment to the universal dignity, not just of 320 million people, the citizens of this country, but to 7.6 billion men, women, and children across the globe. Speaking clearly about tyrants is one of the things that we do. It is not seeking monsters to destroy. For more than 200 years, the American people have clearly understood this. For more than 200 years, administrations of both parties have clearly understood this. At times in the past, previous administrations have made mistakes. They have split hairs, they have smoothed edges, they have dodged, they have hedged. But what happened yesterday at the podium in the White House? The dodge on Putin broke with the basic American moral tradition. It broke faith with our core values. It broke trust with freedom seekers across the globe. This very day, there are dissidents all over the globe struggling against totalitarian regimes in darkness, and to them, America has always said and America still says we see you, we stand with you. We may make long and deliberate decisions about how we engage in the world and about what particular commitments are prudent to exercise at different times with different allies, but we have always spoke unequivocally about the universal dignity of 7.6 billion people. To those who struggle, we have always said we see you, and we stand with you. These simple truths matter. The moral responsibilities of the office of the Presidency matter, and when we don't affirm these basic truths, it is a failure to who we are. It is a failure to do what we do, and it is a betrayal, not just to the millions of people who are denied free and fair elections in Russia this week, but it is a failure to people all across the globe who are struggling in darkness against tyrants. Each and every member of this Senate, all 100 of us, was elected in the kind of free and fair election that Vladimir Putin fears, the kind of election that he would not win. Vladimir Putin is a coward. Vladimir Putin is a despot. Just this month, Vladimir Putin tried to assassinate a political dissident and his daughter on NATO soil in the U.K. And given that we have taken an oath in this body after our free and fair elections to uphold and defend the constitution, given that, we ought not in this body find it difficult to say basic true things like, we condemn leaks by the President's staff against him. We also condemn Vladimir Putin's sham election. We condemn a Russian despot that aims to make Soviet tyranny great again.
03.21.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Senate passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act. Sasse co-sponsored the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, the companion legislation in the Senate. “Even in Nebraska, human traffickers are pushing the dark underworld of sex-slavery. Victims, women and often young children, are forced to endure unimaginable physical pain and emotional duress. While there is no one federal fix that will completely end these injustices, this legislation is an important step. By targeting websites that profit off of these horrors, we are helping to hold bad actors accountable and close the online pathway that sex traffickers have recently turned to in droves. Modern sex-slavery must be confronted head on in our communities.” Background: The Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act updates the Communications Decency Act to remove the legal immunity that criminal sex trafficking websites have used to evade legal repercussions. This legislation creates a pathway to hold bad actors accountable and ensure restitution for victims.
03.18.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Nebraska Wesleyan University men’s basketball team won the Division III National Championship. "Nebraska Wesleyan won this weekend's biggest game. Congrats to the Prairie Wolves for bringing home a National Championship. Keep shooting -- Nebraska wants to see what you can do next year."
03.15.2018	U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and John McCain (R-AZ), the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, wrote to the Department of Defense, Central Intelligence Agency, and State Department, urging the administration to prioritize discussions with our NATO allies regarding a coordinated response to Russia's shadow operations. "In this crucial period following attribution of the attack – and as Director Pompeo begins his transition to the Department of State – we ask that you prioritize discussions with our NATO allies regarding a collective response to this attack and urge you to consider invoking Article IV of the North Atlantic Treaty to accelerate this dialogue," wrote Senators Sasse and McCain."Whether it is the consideration of similar Russian expulsions from NATO nations, freezing more Russian assets, or other appropriate measures, we must make it inescapably clear to Russia that its shadow operations will meet a coordinated NATO response." The full text of the letter is found below. Full text of the letter @SenJohnMcCain and I sent seeking a coordinated NATO response to Russia. https://t.co/K0DCtwM2ZP pic.twitter.com/LOL7gkjQGX — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) March 15, 2018 Dear Secretary Mattis, Director Pompeo, and Deputy Secretary Sullivan,We welcome today’s announcement of the imposition of sanctions on Russia in response to its information operations during the 2016 election and its continued cyber-attacks against the United States and our allies.The United Kingdom took a strong step yesterday in responding to the vile and reckless use of a military grade nerve agent against ex-Russian intelligence officer Sergei Skripal, his daughter, and the community of Salisbury, England. In expelling 23 Russian diplomats and freezing Russian financial assets, our ally demonstrated that it has no tolerance for Putin’s continued hybrid war against free and open societies.Russia’s latest attack has larger systemic implications as well. As Prime Minister May stated in her address to the UK Parliament today, “this was not just an act of attempted murder in Salisbury- nor an act against the UK. It is an affront to the prohibition on the use of chemical weapons. It is an affront to the rules-based system on which we and our international partners depend.”In this crucial period following attribution of the attack – and as Director Pompeo begins his transition to the Department of State – we ask that you prioritize discussions with our NATO allies regarding a collective response to this attack and urge you to consider invoking Article IV of the North Atlantic Treaty to accelerate this dialogue. Whether it is the consideration of similar Russian expulsions from NATO nations, freezing more Russian assets, or other appropriate measures, we must make it inescapably clear to Russia that its shadow operations will meet a coordinated NATO response.Sadly, this attack will not be the last time that Russia tries to silence those who publicly condemn Putin’s regime from Western soil. That is why the United States should be leading conversations with our NATO allies weighing a coordinated response now, so that we are better prepared to react to Russia’s next brazen act against our allies and the rules-based international system.Thank you for your prioritization and attention to this issue. Sincerely, Senator Ben SasseSenator John McCain
03.14.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, issued the following statement regarding the news that a former chief information officer at Equifax has been charged with insider trading. “Let’s get this straight: Equifax put millions of Americans at risk, got a no-bid contract from the feds, and at least one employee turned a personal profit from trading on the misfortune of the victims. This isn’t a one-and-done problem for the millions of families who are still at risk. This goes way beyond today’s news cycle and beyond Mr. Ying’s trial – years from now, there are going to be families who can’t get home loans, families who have terrible credit scores, and families who are stuck fighting fraudulent charges because of Equifax. Someone has to answer for this.” Let’s get this straight: Equifax put millions of Americans at risk, got a no-bid contract from the feds, and at least one employee turned a personal profit from trading on the misfortune of the victims? Someone needs to answer for this. https://t.co/Rz3vsJF9Qa — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) March 14, 2018 Background: Last October, Senators Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) raised concerns about the IRS’ decision to award Equifax a $7.2 million contract to handle sensitive taxpayer information, despite the company’s data breach that exposed the personal information of millions of Americans. Following the criticism, the IRS suspended the contract.
03.14.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding Britain’s expulsion of 23 Russian diplomats in response to the attack on ex-Russian agent, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter. “Our ally took a strong step today but this likely won’t be the last time that Russia tries to silence those who publicly condemn Putin’s regime from Western soil. Americans ought to be leading a conversation with our NATO allies about a collective response to this act and future acts of aggression. Whether it’s the consideration of similar Russian expulsions from NATO nations – including members of Ambassador Anatoly Antonov’s staff here in the United States – or freezing more Russian assets, we ought to make it inescapably clear to Russia that its shadow war will meet a coordinated response.”
03.12.2018	Britain’s Prime Minister says Moscow likely behind assassination attempt of former Russian spy U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May said that Russia was likely behind the assassination attempt of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. “Putin’s shadow war is real. Sometimes it looks like information operations aimed at undermining confidence in self-government, sometimes it looks like ground operations with masked gunmen and unmarked uniforms in Eastern Europe, and sometimes it looks like an assassination attempt in Great Britain. Make no mistake: the free world is racing toward a crossroads with Mr. Putin and the question right now is ‘how seriously are we taking this threat?’” Background: Today, Britain’s Prime Minister Theresa May told Parliament that Russia was likely behind the assassination attempt of an ex-Russian spy and his daughter. Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, were poisoned last week with a military-grade nerve agent that was originally developed by the Russians. In a speech to Parliament, the Prime Minister said, “Either this was a direct act by the Russian state against our country, or the Russian government lost control of this potentially catastrophically damaging nerve agent and allowed it to get into the hands of others.” If Russia fails to provide a “credible” response, the Prime Minister promised to “set out the full range of measures that we will take in response.”
03.08.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken critic of protectionism and trade wars, issued the following statement regarding today’s tariffs. “We’re on the verge of a painful and stupid trade war, and that’s bad. This isn't just bad for farmers and ranchers in Nebraska who need to buy a new tractor, it’s also bad for the moms and dads who will lose their manufacturing jobs because fewer people can buy a more expensive product. Temporary exceptions for Canada and Mexico are encouraging but bad policy is still bad policy, and these constant NAFTA threats are nuts.”
03.08.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate for Nebraska exports, convened a meeting with Gerónimo Gutiérrez, Mexican Ambassador to the United States, and Nebraska agriculture leaders to discuss trade, tariffs, and the importance of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Sasse welcomed Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson, Nebraska Corn Growers Association President Dan Wesely, U.S. Dry Bean Council and Nebraska Dry Bean Commission Representative Cindi Allen, and Chairman for the Joint International Trade Committee at the National Association of Wheat Growers and U.S. Wheat Associates Randon Peters to the meeting. "Walking right to the brink of a trade war is dangerous,” said Senator Sasse. “As the anti-trade nonsense in Washington gets louder, our trading partners are getting ready to retaliate against Nebraska agriculture. A trade war would needlessly target Nebraska farmers and ranchers. Here's the good news: free-trade is a win-win for our state. The best advocates for trade are Nebraskans. We know trade best because we do it better than anyone – it’s our job to feed the world. That’s why it’s good to have these Nebraskans at the table with the ambassador today. Our message is simple: Mexico wants Nebraska agriculture and we want Mexico’s money for our crops." Reaction from Nebraska’s ag leaders is found below: Steve Nelson, President, Nebraska Farm Bureau -- Axtell, Nebraska: "This is about the importance of trade to our almost 60,000 member families that make up the Nebraska Farm Bureau. Senator Sasse, the Nebraska Farm Bureau, and our whole state get this: trade wars destabilize markets — hurting producers and consumers. NAFTA is good for Nebraska and good for America." Randon Peters, Immediate Past President, Nebraska Wheat Growers Association, Chairman for the Joint International Trade Committee at the National Association of Wheat Growers and U.S. Wheat Associates -- McCook, Nebraska: "Half of Nebraska's wheat is exported annually — that’s why low tariffs and trade deals like NAFTA matter to our producers. The rhetoric on trade coming out of Washington is already having real impacts for our wheat growers in Nebraska — for the first time ever, Mexico is buying wheat from Argentina and pulling back from Nebraska producers. Trade is good for Nebraska, and on behalf of our state’s wheat farmers I'd like to thank Senator Sasse for being a strong free trade advocate in public and behind the scenes." Dan Wesely, President, Nebraska Corn Growers Association -- Morse Bluff, Nebraska: "Corn is Nebraska’s number one export to Mexico and free trade is a huge reason why. Nebraska’s corn growers are appreciative of Senator Sasse and his promotion of free trade in expanding opportunities for Nebraska corn and value-added products." Cindi Allen, U.S. Dry Bean Council, Nebraska Dry Bean Commission -- Ogallala, Nebraska: "Nebraska has the world’s best farmland, and our dry bean growers are proud of our contributions. Trade deals with countries like Mexico and Canada are vitally important to our state and our livelihoods. We appreciate the support that Senator Sasse is giving Nebraskans as NAFTA negotiations continue."
03.07.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the death of former-Governor Charley Thone. “Governor Thone led a remarkable life of service, upholding the virtues of civility and integrity. Melissa and I join Nebraskans across the state praying for Charley’s family.”
03.07.2018	U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Tim Scott (R-SC) released the following statement after introducing the Military Education Savings Act of 2018. This legislation creates an opt-in for military families to establish Military Education Savings Accounts (ESAs) to help fund their child’s education and expand access to personalized, high-quality educational experiences. “Our men and women in uniform know what sacrifice means, and so do their families,” said Sasse. “It’s too easy to forget that these are moms and dads trying to figure out how to best raise their kids. This bill lets parents customize their kids’ education, letting them find the opportunities that fit their family’s needs. All of us should want to make sure that the decision to defend our freedom doesn’t mean kids miss out on the best education options available. These men and women deserve our best and their kids do too.” “While our service members are putting their lives on the line to protect and defend our freedom, it is absolutely important for us to give them more options and tools so that their children can receive a quality education,” said Scott. “As someone who lived on an Air Force base as a kid, I know firsthand how important it is for parents to have options when it comes to their child’s education. The Military Education Savings Act will ensure our brave men and women in our nation’s Armed Forces have access to the best possible education for their children. I am proud to join my colleague, Senator Ben Sasse, in introducing this important legislation to help military children unleash their greatest potential." Background: Over one-third of military parents say that dissatisfaction with their children’s schooling was a significant factor in their decision to remain in or leave the military. Currently, eighty percent of military connected youth are enrolled in local public schools, but fifty percent of military connected youth live in states with no school choice options. This legislation would amend Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to create an opt-in for military families to redirect a portion of their per pupil Impact Aid allocations into an education savings account (ESA) to pursue alternative educational opportunities. ESAs are parent-driven accounts that allow families to customize their children’s educational experiences. Representative Jim Banks (R-IN) has introduced companion legislation in the House.
03.02.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who represents one of the most pro-trade states in the nation, issued the following statement today regarding the President’s tweeted support for a trade war. "Trade wars are never won. Trade wars are lost by both sides. Kooky 18th century protectionism will jack up prices on American families -- and will prompt retaliation from other countries. Make no mistake: If the President goes through with this, it will kill American jobs -- that's what every trade war ultimately does. So much losing."
03.01.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that the administration will pursue massive steel and aluminum tariffs. "Let's be clear: The President is proposing a massive tax increase on American families. Protectionism is weak, not strong. You'd expect a policy this bad from a leftist administration, not a supposedly Republican one."
02.28.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the President’s comments today on due process and the Second Amendment. “Strong leaders don't automatically agree with the last thing that was said to them. We have the Second Amendment and due process of law for a reason. We're not ditching any Constitutional protections simply because the last person the President talked to today doesn’t like them.”
02.27.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse met with David MacNaughton, Canadian Ambassador to the United States, to talk about the importance and benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). "Trade is a win-win for Nebraskans and Canadians. Canada and Mexico are Nebraska’s largest trading partners, and that means NAFTA is a good deal for our state. We need to make sure we have markets that let Nebraskans keep feeding the world. I'm committed to trade, the Ambassador is committed to trade, and Nebraska thrives with trade.” "I told Ambassador MacNaughton that maple syrup may be good for breakfast but Nebraska beef is great for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Joking or not, these are just undeniable facts."
02.27.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the New York Times’ reporting on the United Nation’s report connecting North Korea to the Syrian government’s production of chemical weapons. “Kim Jong-un and Bashar al-Assad are evil men who rule through terror. We know that North Korea has one of the world’s largest stockpiles of chemical weapons and is cash-strapped to fund its nuclear ambitions. It is sobering, but not surprising, to think that the Kim regime would also help the Assad regime brutalize the Syrian people.”
02.22.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after Hormel Foods, which operates a processing plant in Fremont, Nebraska, announced it would raise wages and give employees stock shares as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed last December. “Lower taxes and bigger paychecks are big wins for Nebraska. The tax cuts we passed last year are helping Nebraska families and businesses. Washington still has a lot of work to do, but this is good news for our whole community and especially the moms and dads working at Hormel.” Background: In an announcement earlier today, Hormel President and CEO Jim Snee said: “Tax reform will have a clear benefit to all Hormel Foods stakeholders – our shareholders, our employees, and the communities in which we operate. The ongoing cash tax benefit will provide additional funds, allowing us to accelerate the growth of our business.… In addition to awarding our over 20,000 employees stock options, we will raise our starting wage for all employees to $13 per hour by the end of fiscal 2018 and to $14 per hour by the end of fiscal 2020.”
02.21.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that Billy Graham died today at the age of 99. "Billy Graham’s humble witness for his Savior touched countless lives. No one on this side of eternity knows the full impact of Billy Graham’s ministry. While the news of his death is sad, we rejoice in the fact that this is not the end. Melissa and I are praying for the Graham family."
02.16.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s indictment of 13 Russians for Moscow’s influence operation before, during, and after our 2016 election. “Mueller just put Moscow on notice. This ought to be a wakeup call to Washington: Putin’s shadow war is aimed at undermining Americans’ trust in our institutions. We know Russia is coming back in 2018 and 2020 – we have to take this threat seriously.”
02.15.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Lancaster County Attorney Joe Kelly to serve as U.S. Attorney for Nebraska. “Joe Kelly’s next career calling is to the benefit of Nebraskans across our state. Throughout his nomination process Joe showed that Nebraskans will continue to be well served by his commitment to honesty, humility, and the law.” Background: Last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to bring Kelly’s nomination before the full Senate.
02.12.2018	“We need to invest in infrastructure but we have to pay our bills.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the White House’s infrastructure plan that was released today. “We need to invest in infrastructure but we have to pay our bills. Last week’s budget bill proposed spending nearly $300 billion more over two years than we were already over-spending, and now the administration is proposing a $1.5 trillion infrastructure package. Infrastructure is important – so important that we have to have an honest plan to pay for this stuff.” Additional Background: Last week, Senator Sasse voted against Washington’s record-setting spending bill.
02.09.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting against a record-setting government spending bill. "This bill is too expensive and too unwilling to prioritize. Yes, we need more spending on defense. But no, we do not need more across-the-board spending on every single government program every single bureaucrat ever imagined."
02.08.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Committee voted to move Lancaster County Attorney Joe Kelly’s nomination to serve as U.S. Attorney for Nebraska to the Senate floor. “It’s good news for Nebraska that my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee voted to send Joe's nomination to the full Senate. Nebraskans know and respect him as a skilled attorney. Lancaster County has long benefited from Joe’s service and soon the entire state of Nebraska will too.”
01.29.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse announced that Nebraska State Patrol Trooper John Lewis will attend the State of the Union as his guest. Trooper Lewis’ efforts to aid families affected by Hurricane Irma inspired Americans across the country and made Nebraska proud. "Nebraskans know we can count on each other when we need it the most -- Trooper Lewis took that truth to another level," said Sasse. "This past Christmas, he led an effort to match Nebraskans with families in Florida recovering from Hurricane Irma’s devastation by providing much needed supplies, relief, and holiday cheer to folks who lost nearly everything. Trooper Lewis and the Nebraskans who pitched in to help are shining examples of what make our communities so great.” "This is just what Nebraskans do -- serve and love your neighbor," said Lewis. "Our state is full of men and women who lean in and solve problems every single day. I'm grateful for Senator Sasse’s invitation and I look forward to hearing the President’s State of the Union address." Background: In December, Trooper Lewis led an effort to provide aid to families affected by Hurricane Irma. At the time, Trooper Lewis was able to recruit and match Nebraskans with 14 families in Florida, providing relief as the recovery process was underway. More information can be found here.
01.29.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a cosponsor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, spoke on the floor, urging his colleagues to protect unborn children who can feel pain. Senator Sasse's speech is found below. Thank you, Madam President. As we consider this legislation to protect 20-week-old babies who feel pain, I want to ask my friends this in body to put aside whip counts and scorecards, politics and reelection, and let's talk today just simply about beauty and about science. We love beauty. Beauty calls us. Beauty inspires us. Beauty captivates us. It's part of what makes us human, and it's not surprising that there's almost nothing more universal on this earth--almost nothing more beautiful--than our natural impulse to care for a little baby. We all start in the same place: vulnerable and dependent in every way. We all ooh and aah over sonogram pictures of our children, our grandchildren, our nieces, our nephews--even sonogram pictures from a stranger on a bus or plane. We all ooh and aah in the same way. When we look at those pictures, we love. We love. We don't have to be taught this. You don't have to be conditioned to love. You don't have to be conditioned to know that we should help the vulnerable. This isn't because of economics. This isn't because of politics. We love, because they're babies. You don't need anyone to explain this to you. Every one of us have experienced this when you've seen the sonogram pictures. But we should note that this love is not just a feeling. It's also built on and backed up by facts. As we consider whether these unborn babies, having been carried by their mamas for almost five months, as we consider whether they deserve legal protection, whether they deserve our protection, we should think, too, about the science and what is becoming clearer year by year and month by month. I want to associate myself with the comments of the senator from Montana who preceded me. A huge part of why the millennials are becoming more pro-life than the two generations older than they are is because they're seeing these sonogram images and it's changing them--year by year and month by month. I've been on the floor for about 45 minutes today and I've heard a whole bunch of claims about polling and facts on the floor today that just aren't true. I'm not here to argue this case and argue how we should vote on this legislation because of polls. I'm here because we should all love babies. That's why we should be doing this. But just at the level of polling, there have been claims on the floor today that are just absolutely not true. Younger people are becoming more pro-life, as the gentleman from Montana said, year over year right now, and it's because of the prevalence and the pervasiveness of sonogram technology. And this movement, the pro-life movement, is ascendant and it's because people are grappling with science, and they're grappling with images, and they're grappling with the reality of that intrinsic feeling we have to love. We can and we should appeal to ethics. We can and we should discuss too human dignity. We should reaffirm intrinsic value. But for now, for this conversation today, we could limit ourselves just to scientific facts. As we consider those facts, I want to respectfully ask my colleagues in this chamber today, where will we draw the line? No one seriously disputes that that little girl in that image is alive. No one seriously disputes that that little girl is a human being. No one. There's no one in this chamber and there's no one outside this chamber who's ever looked at that sonogram image that's going to come to this floor and say, "You know the debate I want to have? I want to say that that baby is not alive and she's not a human." Somebody should be come to the floor and make that case who's going to vote NO on the legislation today. Say that that's not a life and that that's not a human. Because it's not true and no one believes it. The science is clear. We all know and understand that that little baby in that sonogram image is a unique and separate being. We know that she has unique D.N.A. from her mother and she has D.N.A. that's unique from her father. And the baby apps are now telling new moms and dads-to-be that that baby--or when that baby--is a size of a sesame seed, and then a blueberry, and then an apple. And with the help of these sonograms, we're now catching pictures of her sucking her thumb, flexing her arms and legs, yawning, stretching, making faces. And here's what's really new, the last couple of years, you're catching pictures and images of her responding to voices, voices that are familiar of other human beings, that she's already in community with, people who are called to love her. As early as 20 weeks post-fertilization, which is about halfway through the pregnancy, scientists and our doctors now tell that is this unborn baby can feel pain. In fact, it's become routine procedure of late for us to give unborn and premature infants anesthesia for their fetal surgeries. Why? This is new. We didn't used to do this. Why do we do it? It's because we have new scientific evidence that they feel pain. It turns out that babies that are 20-weeks along in gestation are pain-capable inside mom's uterus. As Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand testified before the congress, "the human fetus possesses the ability to experience pain from 20-weeks gestation, if not earlier, and the pain perceived by the fetus is possibly more intense than that perceived by termed newborns." Not only can she feel pain, not only do the images show us that she recoils from being poked or prodded, advances in modern medicine are now helping babies born at 22-weeks and at 21-weeks and 20-weeks post fertilization survive outside the womb.The pain that those babies feel outside the womb is supporting the evidence that those babies also feel pain inside the womb, which leads me to ask my friends, have our hearts grown cold to truth? Have we become indifferent to questioning our previously held convictions? Are we indifferent to what the science is clearly showing us? Well, this body, captive to abortion zealot activists, might be ignoring the sonograms. That might be what's happening in this body today. But the American people are actually listening to the science and the sonograms. Contrary to those bizarre claims that were made on the floor a couple times over the last hour, a hefty majority -- it is not close -- of Americans support this legislation, including a supermajority of women, including most young people, including most independents, and now ticking up just shy of half of all Democrats. This should not be a partisan issue, and in the future, it won't. Because more and more people are looking at these images and it's not going to be a partisan issue. It's going to be a bipartisan issue that you have to tell the truth that those pictures are pictures of babies and they're alive and they deserve our protection. But have our hearts in this body grown cold to the truth? We should also not forget the mothers because the pro-life message is about being both pro-baby and pro-mother. Late-term abortions are actually not safe, even for the mother. Women seeking abortion after 20 weeks are 35 times more likely to die from an abortion than when done in the first trimester -- 35 times more likely. The United States is one of only seven countries on Earth that allows elective abortion after 20 weeks and we're actually tied with three other countries as having the most permissive abortion regime on Earth. You know who our peers are? North Korea and China -- that's who our peers are.And if our rhetoric about human rights should mean anything, it should mean we don't want to be on a human rights worst list with North Korea and China. That's where we are today. And there are a whole bunch of reasonable people who are going to argue against this legislation. They're reasonable in other ways in life and they want to make an argument about the really complicated issues about abortion in the first trimester and there are a lot of reasonable people that can have a reasonable debate about that. When you listen to the arguments being made today, they're not actually grappling with today's legislation. They're talking about abortion in general but nobody is telling us why are we tied with China and North Korea as having the most permissive abortion regime on Earth? My friends, beauty and compassion can stir our hearts, and science and facts should still confirm the truth. This legislation, the actual legislation we're voting on today, is pro-baby, it's pro-mom, and it's pro-science. And these little babies who are capable of feeling pain, they deserve legal protection. They deserve our protection. And I invite -- I beg my colleagues to join in that conviction and to vote yes on this legislation today. Thank you, Madam President.
01.26.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that Cecile Richards will step down from Planned Parenthood. “Cecile Richards has two legacies in American life: she was the highly-compensated chief executive of the nation’s largest abortion mill for over a decade. And she killed the left’s old mantra of ‘safe, legal, and rare’ and drove abortion politics to the hard-left.”
01.24.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Sam Brownback to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom. “Americans are First Amendment people. We believe that we’re all creedal minorities, protecting each other’s rights to debate, to evangelize, and to worship. We ought to defend and cultivate that freedom. Governor Sam Brownback will bring years of expertise and stature to this important new calling and I wish him Godspeed as Religious Freedom Ambassador.”
01.22.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting for legislation to end the federal government shutdown and fund the government for another three weeks. "Keeping the lights on for another three weeks isn’t a big deal, it’s a low bar. Washington’s budget process is broken and everyone in Nebraska knows it. This has to change or there’s always going to be another cliff, another countdown, and another Washington-driven crisis."
01.22.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken advocate of free trade, issued the following statement regarding the administration’s decision to levy tariffs on solar panels and washing machines. "Here's something Republicans used to understand: Tariffs are taxes on families. Moms and dads shopping on a budget for a new washing machine will pay for this - not big companies. You don't fix eight years of bad energy policy with bad trade policy."
01.20.2018	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the federal government shutdown. "This garbage is what happens when Washington isn’t serious about budgeting year after year."
01.19.2018	"Rooting for newborn babies isn’t about politics and parties — it’s about hope and love." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation identical to his Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (S. 220). The legislation would provide common-sense protections for newborn children born alive, after an attempted abortion. “Every baby deserves a fighting chance and that’s what the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is all about. The circumstances of a baby’s birth don’t set her value—she deserves treatment and care. Period. We might disagree about abortion, but everyone who cares about human rights and has a heart should agree: Premature babies, even those surviving an abortion, deserve a fighting chance. Rooting for newborn babies isn’t about politics and parties — it’s about hope and love.”
01.12.2018	“Russia is just getting started and the hacks, forgeries, and influence campaigns are going to get more and more sophisticated.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement following a cybersecurity firm’s report that Russian hackers are targeting the Senate. “Russia is just getting started and the hacks, forgeries, and influence campaigns are going to get more and more sophisticated. Moscow wants to undermine America’s trust in our institutions and Putin couldn’t be happier with Washington’s obsession with making everything about settling partisan scores instead of preparing for 2018 and 2020. Last year, FBI Director Comey said he was certain that Senate IT systems have been targeted and the Attorney General said we weren’t doing enough to prepare for Russia’s next attack. The Administration needs to take urgent action to ensure that our adversaries cannot undermine the framework of our political debates and the Attorney General should come back to Congress and explain what steps he’s taken since last year.” Background: On May 3, 2017, FBI Director James Comey told Senator Sasse that he “would estimate it's a certainty” that Senate IT systems have been targeted by foreign intelligence services. On October 18, 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Senator Sasse that we’re not doing enough to prepare for future Russian interference.
01.11.2018	“This is national security 101: Washington should be hunting down terrorists who fund global violence with domestic drug money.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who in December pressed the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments for answers regarding a POLITICO report on the Obama administration's handling of Hezbollah, praised the Department of Justice’s decision to create a Hezbollah Financing and Narcoterrorism Team (HFNT). “This is national security 101: Washington should be hunting down terrorists who fund global violence with domestic drug money,” said Sasse. “It makes sense for this team to start by going back to Project Cassandra cases and take down Hezbollah’s drug traffickers. As this taskforce starts its work, it’s important for the Justice, State, and Treasury Departments to provide answers about what exactly happened while the Obama Administration pursued the Iran deal.” BackgroundToday, the Justice Department announced the creation of the Hezbollah Financing and Narcoterrorism Team (HFNT). This DOJ taskforce will coordinate with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). According to the DOJ, it will begin by assessing the evidence in existing investigations, including cases stemming from Project Cassandra, a law enforcement initiative targeting Hezbollah’s drug trafficking and related operations. In December, Sasse wrote to the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments, "If the Obama administration failed to use the authorities that Congress has authorized to stop Hezbollah terrorists and their associates from pouring cocaine onto our streets to fund terrorism and acquire weapons of mass destruction, it was a colossal mistake. If the administration did so in order to shore up its foolish nuclear deal with Iran, it was a mistake of historical proportions, a mistake the consequences of which reach from the battlefields of Syria to the streets of Omaha and Scottsbluff." The full text of Sasse's letter is available here. This is national security 101: Washington should be hunting down terrorists who fund global violence with domestic drug money. pic.twitter.com/XGUMbrWGIK — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 11, 2018
01.04.2018	“This is good news for people of faith and the communities they serve.” Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s decision to reverse rules that prohibited houses of worship from receiving disaster relief funding. In September, in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, Sasse wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long, saying that the old policy was “unjust,” “unconstitutional,” and “unreasonable.” “FEMA made the right call,” said Sasse. “When disasters strike, our churches, synagogues, and mosques get right to work. It didn’t make any sense for Washington to discriminate against these Good Samaritans. This is good news for people of faith and the communities they serve.”
12.22.2017	"Terrorists don’t get a pass to exploit drug addiction here at home and use American dollars to fund their global violence." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who yesterday pressed the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments for answers regarding a POLITICO report on the Obama administration's handling of Hezbollah, issued the following statement regarding the news that the Justice Department is opening an investigation. "This is an appropriate first step. I’m encouraged that the Justice Department recognizes that this is important and I hope that they will swiftly provide answers. Terrorists don’t get a pass to exploit drug addiction here at home and use American dollars to fund their global violence. These are serious charges that deserve a serious response. I look forward to hearing from the Justice, State, and Treasury Departments in a timely manner." BackgroundYesterday, Sasse wrote to the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments, "If the Obama administration failed to use the authorities that Congress has authorized to stop Hezbollah terrorists and their associates from pouring cocaine onto our streets to fund terrorism and acquire weapons of mass destruction, it was a colossal mistake. If the administration did so in order to shore up its foolish nuclear deal with Iran, it was a mistake of historical proportions, a mistake the consequences of which reach from the battlefields of Syria to the streets of Omaha and Scottsbluff." The full text of Sasse's letter is available here.
12.21.2017	"The American people deserve answers to these disturbing allegations." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary and Banking Committees, pressed the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments for answers on the Obama administration's handling of Hezbollah. According to a recent investigative report, the Obama administration's pursuit of a nuclear deal with Iran led to a "systematic" effort to “defang, defund and undermine” federal work to disrupt Hezbollah’s extensive criminal activity. "If the Obama administration failed to use the authorities that Congress has authorized to stop Hezbollah terrorists and their associates from pouring cocaine onto our streets to fund terrorism and acquire weapons of mass destruction, it was a colossal mistake," said Sasse. "If the administration did so in order to shore up its foolish nuclear deal with Iran, it was a mistake of historical proportions, a mistake the consequences of which reach from the battlefields of Syria to the streets of Omaha and Scottsbluff." The full text of Sasse's letter is available here:Dear Attorney General Sessions and Secretaries Mnuchin and Tillerson,I write to you today out of serious concern over the federal government’s failure to address the threats posed by Hezbollah. As you are well aware, this group has evolved significantly over the years since gaining notoriety for its terrorist activities in Lebanon, Israel, and Syria. In recent years, public reports indicate that it has expanded its operations as a transnational criminal enterprise engaged in a variety of illicit activities across a number of continents. These activities appear to run the gamut from drug running to diamond smuggling to trafficking components for the production and delivery of weapons of mass destruction. Any major criminal network engaged in these activities should warrant significant attention from our law enforcement and national security authorities, and Hezbollah’s status as a radical Islamic terrorist organization and its significant ties to rogue regimes such as Iran and Syria should make it all the more concerning.It is precisely because Hezbollah presents such a disturbing reach and array of illicit capabilities that recent disclosures about the previous administration’s handling of the group prove so disturbing. According a recent investigative report, the Obama administration engaged in a “systematic” effort to “defang, defund and undermine” efforts across the Justice, Treasury, and State Departments to employ prosecutorial, financial, and diplomatic authorities to disrupt Hezbollah’s extensive criminal activity, in the words of one former official. The goal of the administration’s efforts directed “from the top down” was—according to the report and the public statements of multiple former officials—unambiguously clear: “These investigations were tamped down for fear of rocking the boat with Iran and jeopardizing the nuclear deal.” If the Obama administration failed to use the authorities that Congress has authorized to stop Hezbollah terrorists and their associates from pouring cocaine onto our streets to fund terrorism and acquire weapons of mass destruction, it was a colossal mistake. If the administration did so in order to shore up its foolish nuclear deal with Iran, it was a mistake of historical proportions, a mistake the consequences of which reach from the battlefields of Syria to the streets of Omaha and Scottsbluff.The American people deserve answers to these disturbing allegations. As such, please respond the following questions and requests: How many prosecutions and extradition requests of individuals with known or suspected ties to Hezbollah or associated entities were declined from 2009–17? Please provide any document in your possession that refers to a specific potential prosecutorial, financial, or diplomatic action that was considered but not taken against Hezbollah, its members, associates, or related entity for criminal activity from 2009–17. Please provide any document in your possession that mentions both possible prosecutorial, financial, or diplomatic actions against Hezbollah, its members, associates, or related entities and the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or U.S.-Iran relations generally. Can you provide a minimum estimate for the amount of controlled substances trafficked into the United States because of these declined prosecutions and any other policy decisions made to promote the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or U.S.-Iran relations generally? Can you provide a minimum estimate of the amount of money laundered by Hezbollah, its members, associates, and related entities because of these declined prosecutions and any other policy decisions made to promote the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or U.S.-Iran relations generally? What evolutionary developments of Hezbollah’s criminal enterprise have occurred because of these declined prosecutions and any other policy decisions made to promote the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or the U.S.-Iran relationship generally? Have the unclassified reports and classified annexes on narcotics trafficking and significant transnational criminal activity by Hezbollah required by Sections 201 and 202 of Public Law 114-102 been provided to Congress? If so, were they provided on or before the statutory deadline? If so, please enclose a copy of the report with your response. If not, will the administration commit to complying with this statutory requirement within 30 days? Please provide your responses in writing within 30 days. If you have any questions or concerns concerning the content or scope of these questions and requests, please contact my staff at (202) 224-4224. I understand that these questions likely involve significant amounts of classified and law enforcement-sensitive information, and I am eager to work with you to adapt my request in a manner that accommodates public safety and national security interests while ensuring maximum transparency for the American people.Sincerely,Ben SasseChairman, U.S. Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and Federal CourtsChairman, U.S. Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance
12.20.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Senate passed a tax reform package, including the repeal of Obamacare’s individual mandate. "Repealing Obamacare's individual mandate is a very big deal - for Constitutional even more than for policy reasons. Here's what that mandate did: It made it illegal for American families not to buy a particular product, defined by Washington bureaucrats. Never before has there been such a federal law. It was crazy and wrong. And in practice, it meant that families were presented with a terrible decision: either pay a federal fine or pay an unaffordable price for one of the crummy choices still available on the exchanges. Not anymore. Republicans still need to keep our repeal and replace promise, but tonight the Senate took an important step to save families from Obamacare’s worst provision."
12.13.2017	Nebraska’s U.S. Senators Ben Sasse and Deb Fischer today announced the application process for filling a forthcoming vacancy on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska. Recently, Chief Judge Laurie Smith Camp announced her transition from active service to senior status effective December 1, 2018. Under the U.S. Constitution, judicial nominations are made by the president “by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate.” Typically, home state senators work with the Office of White House Counsel to select qualified candidates to fill U.S. District Court judgeship vacancies. Senators Sasse and Fischer invite applications from qualified Nebraskans. Individuals interested in applying for the vacancy should review the following details.Applicants must complete a comprehensive questionnaire detailing a candidate’s background and qualifications. Candidates must respond to all questions, except 20, 22, 23, and 26. Please note that personal financial data will be required at a later date for finalists. This information is required by both the White House and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary before a finalist may move forward in the confirmation process. Click here for the questionnaire. All questionnaires should be submitted with a letter of interest. References and letters of recommendation are welcome. The letter of interest, questionnaire, and any accompanying documents must be either emailed to Judiciary_Vacancy@sasse.senate.gov and to Judicial_Vacancy@fischer.senate.gov by January 18, 2018, or postmarked to Senator Sasse’s and Senator Fischer's Washington offices by January 12, 2018. Candidates submitting by mail should address all materials to Senator Sasse at 136 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20510 and Senator Fischer at 454 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20510.For questions about these processes, please contact Senator Sasse’s Washington office at 202-224-4224 or Senator Fischer’s Washington office at 202-224-6551.
12.12.2017	"...Listen to all the Nebraskans, again, of all backgrounds and across the partisan spectrum as they urge us to confirm Mr. Grasz today." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor as the Senate resumed consideration of Steve Grasz’s nomination to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit. Last night the full Senate voted to invoke cloture on the nomination and a final confirmation vote will happen soon. Sasse’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: Mr. President, I rise today in continued support of Steve Grasz’s nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Some of those attacking Mr. Grasz have claimed that he doesn’t have the character or temperament to treat litigants fairly and decide cases on the facts and the law. In evaluating these claims, I hope my colleagues listen to the hundreds of Nebraskans of all partisan and ideological stripes who have stood up to support Steve’s nomination. I would urge everyone to listen to what they have to say specifically about his character and temperament. One Nebraskan wrote: “I was the plaintiff in a First Amendment defamation and political speech action against the Nebraska Republican Party. . . . Mr. Grasz represented the Nebraska Republican Party. I was not successful in my lawsuit. However, I did have the opportunity to meet and interact with Mr. Grasz during the case and found him to be . . . . a consummate professional. Based on my observations I believe his judicial temperament would be of the highest quality and all parties would be given equal opportunity. . . . I can think of no one better qualified or suited to be appointed to this prestigious judgeship than Steven Grasz.” Another Nebraskan wrote: “I know Steve personally having served as opposing counsel to him on cases. . . . Steve was a formidable opponent. . . . While he zealously advocated for his clients, he did so in a level-headed and even-keeled manner.” Yet another Nebraskan wrote: “I . . . have . . .represented clients in cases where Mr. Grasz was opposing counsel. In all circumstances he demonstrates the utmost professionalism. . . . I am a registered Democrat and, quite frankly, am not a strong supporter of the current administration. However, as a practicing attorney dealing with complex litigation and appearing regularly in the federal courts of appeals, I want intelligent, thoughtful individuals appointed to the Bench who will administer the law and apply existing precedent. I have no doubt that Mr. Grasz can do that very effectively.” Also, consider the words of this Nebraskan: “Steve does not allow his role as an advocate to cloud his analyses and judgment. He reviews statutes, regulations, rule and common law with a clear eye, and applies these authorities to the facts presented to him. . . . [H]is respect for precedent and his high regard for the works of other branches of government show his dedication to following the Constitution and our nation’s laws as they are written.” Mr. President, Steve Grasz is a Nebraskan through and through. As I said on the floor yesterday, Steve bleeds Husker red, but he is a guy well suited to take on the black robes of a judge. He understands that we do not have blue or red partisan jerseys on our Article Three branch of government – the independent judiciary. Steve is well suited to serve as a judge on the Eighth Circuit and I think that, not just Nebraskans, but folks across the states in the eighth circuit will find a man of unbelievable temperament. The ABA is a liberal advocacy organization. That is absolutely their right. What is not okay is for the ABA to masquerade as a neutral arbiter of professional qualifications. The attacks on Steve’s character that have come out of this process because of the two reviewers from the ABA cite, again and again and again, anonymous sources of his supposed rudeness. We have seen none of that in Nebraska, again, in the hundreds of people who have written to the senior senator and myself, and now to the Judiciary Committee in support of the President's decision to nominate Steve Grasz to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to enter into the record the specific letters that I here just cited. And I urge all of my colleagues to listen to all the Nebraskans, again, of all backgrounds and across the partisan spectrum as they urge us to confirm Mr. Grasz today. Thank you, Mr. President.
12.12.2017	“The end of a long process in the Senate is just the beginning of a new chapter in Steve’s distinguished record of public service for Nebraska and the nation.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Steve Grasz to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit. “The end of a long process in the Senate is just the beginning of a new chapter in Steve’s distinguished record of public service for Nebraska and the nation. Nebraskans will have a voice on the Eighth Circuit committed to an impartial and independent judiciary – someone who understands that judges don’t write laws. At every step during this process, from his interview back in Nebraska to his hearing in the Judiciary Committee, Steve’s humility, integrity, and experience were clear. As a member of the Senate’s Judiciary Committee, I join Nebraskans across the political spectrum in wishing Steve the best in his new calling.”
12.11.2017	Senate to hold procedural vote on Grasz nomination tonight U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor prior to a procedural vote to advance the nomination of Steve Grasz to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Sasse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: Mr. President, I rise today in support of the nomination of Steve Grasz to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. One of the most important things that the Senate has done this year and will continue to do between now and Christmas – and, in fact, into 2018 – is consider nominees to the federal courts. When I talk with Nebraskans, I constantly hear from men and women who tell me that the number one issue they care about in Presidential elections is the judiciary – Nebraskans want judges who understand that they’re not lawmakers. Nebraskans want judges who understand that a lifetime appointment isn’t designed to do politics. Nebraskans want judges who understand that the courts are to uphold the laws fairly and impartially. My colleagues and I on the Senate Judiciary Committee agree with the Nebraskans in townhalls, and coffee shops, and Rotary Clubs. In the committee we’ve worked to advance a record number of judges who know exactly that. We’re looking for thoughtful men and women of integrity. That’s why it’s a pleasure and an honor to come to the floor today in support of Steve. Steve is a Nebraskan through and through. He’s a fifth-generation Nebraskan who grew up on the family farm – walking beans, raising sheep and pigs, branding cattle. When he was a young man, life in the Nebraska Panhandle taught him hard work. He moved East to Lincoln where the University of Nebraska taught him the law. Steve graduated at the top of his class and put his law degree to work serving his fellow Nebraskans. He served as the Chief Deputy Attorney General of our state for nearly a dozen years. Steve’s job was to represent the people of Nebraska in court. That means he was bound by the law and his professional duty to defend our laws, including our state’s ban on the gruesome procedure known as partial-birth abortion. In the Nebraska AG’s office role, he litigated multiple cases in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, the Nebraska Supreme Court, and the Eighth Circuit, to which he has been nominated. Every time he represented us in court, Steve did so with integrity, humility, and decency. That’s just what Nebraskans do. Steve bleeds Husker red but he’s ready to put on a judge’s black robe. He knows that judges in America don’t wear red or blue partisan jerseys. He knows that policy preferences—whether his or anyone else’s—have no role in how a judge applies the law. He knows that in his courtroom only two things matter: the facts and the law. Anybody who wants to ensure that Steve will approach his job as a judge without partisan or ideological bias should listen to the words of the hundreds of Nebraskans who have spoken out in support of Steve’s nomination. Democrat Ben Nelson, Nebraska’s U.S. Senator from 2001 through 2013 and its Governor, 1991 through 1998, offered this testament to Steve’s fitness for office: "I first got to know Steve when I served as Nebraska’s Governor and he served as our state’s Chief Deputy Attorney General. . . . With me as a Democrat and him as a Republican, we sometimes found ourselves disagreeing on policy; nevertheless, I quickly learned that Steve was the kind of consummate professional who is capable of putting whatever personal views he may have aside when appropriate in his capacity as a public servant. . . . If Steve is confirmed, I fully expect him to follow the law and the facts in each case because I know his loyalty is first to the rule of law, rather than to any personal views he holds on matters of policy. He possesses first-rate legal skills and a respectful, even-keeled temperament, key ingredients in the making of a good judge. As a Nebraskan, I hope our state has the opportunity to benefit yet again from Steve’s public service in this new role." Deborah Gilg, President Obama’s choice for U.S. Attorney for the District of Nebraska, who served from 2009 to 2016, also spoke glowingly of Steve: "Steve has always enjoyed a reputation for honesty, impeccable integrity and dedication to the rule of law. He possesses an even temperament well-suited for the bench and always acts with respect to all that interact with him. . . . Without a doubt, he would be a tremendous asset to the bench as he demonstrates excellence in all that he does." Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that both of these letters be entered into the record in their entirety. Steve’s reputation for honesty and integrity earned him this bipartisan support in Nebraska. I’m a bit sad that here in Washington things took a more partisan tone in the committee. Happily, we have a chance to do the right thing and return to a bipartisan tone here in the Senate tonight. I hope that my colleagues will listen to the broad array of Nebraskans of all ideological and partisan views and support his nomination.
12.11.2017	Sasse: “Steve is one step closer to the Eighth Circuit and Nebraskans are one step closer to having a federal judge who understands that judges don’t invent new laws.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the Senate invoked cloture on the nomination of Steve Grasz to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit. A final confirmation vote will happen later this week.“Steve is one step closer to the Eighth Circuit and Nebraskans are one step closer to having a federal judge who understands that judges don’t invent new laws, they apply existing laws,” said Sasse. “Steve’s humility, integrity, and impressive record won him a majority over efforts to drag his reputation through mud with anonymous allegations. I’m proud of Steve’s hard work and I’m eager for the Senate to move to a final vote this week.” Background: Senator Sasse, Nebraska’s first member of the Senate Judiciary Committee since Gerald Ford was President, has been an outspoken advocate for Steve Grasz nomination since he and Nebraska’s senior Senator, Deb Fischer, made their recommendation to the Administration. More on Sasse’s work on the Senate floor and in the Judiciary Committee can be found here, here, and here.
12.07.2017	Senate Judiciary Committee votes to advance Steve Grasz's nomination to the full Senate. Today, after U.S. Senator Ben Sasse and fellow members of the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to advance the nomination of Steve Grasz to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Sasse spoke on the Senate floor. Video of the Senator's speech is available here and a transcript is found below: Today the Judiciary Committee had the opportunity to advance the nomination of Steve Grasz, one of the foremost appellate attorneys in the state of Nebraska. And I just want to make one brief comment about that. The Judiciary Committee has now heard, and soon the full Senate will be hearing, about the impeccable credentials of Mr. Grasz. Steve has served with distinction as Nebraska's Chief Deputy Attorney General for nearly a dozen years. During that time, he defended our state's laws with integrity, humility, and decency. Whether he was litigating before the 8th Circuit, before the Nebraska Supreme Court, or before the U.S. Supreme Court, Steve's character and professionalism earned the respect of Republicans and Democrats alike. Members of the committee became familiar with Steve and in particular his recommendation from President Obama's U.S. Attorney for Nebraska, Deborah Gilg. She wrote to the committee, "Steve has always enjoyed a reputation for honesty, impeccable integrity, and dedication to the rule of law," she wrote to our Committee. She continued by noting that, Steve "possesses an even temperament well suited for the bench and always acts with respect to all that interact with him." Steve has earned the support of Republicans and Democrats back in Nebraska and I hope that when his nomination comes to the floor of the Senate, we will take to heart all of the support that he has across the political spectrum and from well-respected lawyers across our state. Thank you for the time, Mr. President.
12.02.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding his vote for the tax reform that passed the Senate tonight. "With every new piece of legislation, the majority party promises heaven, while the minority party shouts about the apocalypse. Both Democrats and Republicans do it, and neither tells the truth. We need more honesty and less hyperbole: My view of this bill is that it's better than the status quo, but isn't as good as it could be. Some good things: Increasing the child tax credit, preserving the adoption tax credit, and stopping incentivizing companies to move overseas are all helpful. But Congress is still failing to grapple with our entitlement over-promising, and there is far too little being done to upend the DC culture of lobbyists over families. These lower rates will make American businesses more globally competitive, but we are doing far too little to help make American workers more competitive in our fast-paced, global economy."
11.30.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding Chief Judge Laurie Smith Camp’s announcement that she would take senior status on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska effective December 2018. "Chief Judge Laurie Smith Camp has faithfully served Nebraskans and we wish her all the best. In the coming weeks, as we look to fill her seat, we’ll be looking for men and women of integrity who are also committed to the Constitution and the rule of law." Senators Sasse and Fischer will soon announce the application process for Nebraskans interested in filling Chief Judge Smith Camp’s vacancy on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska.
11.29.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, led a group of nine Senators in announcing their intent to work to invalidate any new rules issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) if Leandra English prevails in her attempts to serve as the bureau’s Acting Director. "Unfortunately, this rogue employee is trying to follow former CFPB Director Cordray's example and run the agency as an unaccountable fourth branch of government," the Senators wrote to Acting Director Mick Mulvaney. "Should this employee prevail in court and successfully serve as Acting Director, we would support legislative efforts to invalidate any new rules finalized by the agency during this employee’s service, including the use of the Congressional Review Act.""We don't have four branches of government – we have three," said Senator Sasse separately. "King Richard can't leave to run for office and handpick his successor without any say from the American people. There's no clause anywhere in the Constitution like that."Leandra English is the designated representative of former CFPB director Richard Cordray, who left the bureau to pursue political ambitions in Ohio. Last weekend, English filed a lawsuit to block Acting Director Mick Mulvaney who was selected to lead the bureau until the Senate confirms a new director. Yesterday, a federal judge denied English’s request and English is expected to file an appeal. The letter to Acting Director Mulvaney was signed by Senators Sasse, Isakson, Cruz, Paul, Inhofe, Sullivan, Lee, Wicker, and Enzi. The full text of the letter is found below: Dear Mr. Mulvaney:Congratulations on your appointment to serve as Acting Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). We write because we are disturbed by efforts of a rogue CFPB employee to serve as Acting Director of your agency despite President Trump's designation of you as Acting CFPB Director. Unfortunately, this rogue employee is trying to follow former CFPB Director Cordray's example and run the agency as an unaccountable fourth branch of government. Should this employee prevail in court and successfully serve as Acting Director, we would support legislative efforts to invalidate any new rules finalized by the agency during this employee’s service, including the use of the Congressional Review Act. We would also fight to ensure that Congress defunds the CFPB until this employee has relinquished control of the CFPB.This effort to stay on as Acting Director is especially concerning because more is at stake than interpreting the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998. Successful control of the CFPB would give this employee – as the single head of an independent agency who refuses to answer to the President – great, unconstitutional power to shape regulatory policy. As a recent Treasury Report argued, the CFPB faces "few of the traditional checks and balances necessary to restrain regulatory abuses and arbitrary decision-making," including the annual appropriations process. As Judge Kavanaugh explained in PHH Corporation v. CFPB: [T]he single-Director structure of the CFPB represents a gross departure from settled historical practice. Never before has an independent agency exercising substantial executive authority been headed by just one person. These recent events are a clear demonstration of the dangers of the CFPB's unconstitutional, unaccountable structure. We believe in protecting consumers but disagreement about how to do so must not come at the expense of our constitution. Our nation's founders instituted multiple checks and balances on the unrestrained use of executive power. This outrageous attempt to subvert your appointment as Acting Director of the CFPB violates those foundational principles. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to working with you as Acting Director of the CFPB. Sincerely, Senator Ben SasseSenator Johnny IsaksonSenator Ted CruzSenator Rand PaulSenator James Inhofe Senator Dan SullivanSenator Mike LeeSenator Roger WickerSenator Michael Enzi
11.17.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the White House's announcement this morning of Lancaster County Attorney Joe Kelly's nomination to serve as U.S. Attorney for Nebraska. “Joe Kelly is a proven public servant with the humility and honesty that Nebraskans demand and respect. I look forward to working with Joe as he moves through the Judiciary Committee toward confirmation.”
11.16.2017	"The ABA cannot make liberal arguments to the nine members of the Supreme Court and then walk across the street and seriously expect that the hundred members of this body, in the United States Senate will be treating them like unbiased appraisers." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor about the ABA’s history of liberal advocacy. Text of the Senator's speech is available below: Mr. President, the consideration of federal judges with lifetime appointments is perhaps the most important and long-lasting work this body will do between now and the end of the year. Every senator, Republican and Democrat, took an oath to perform this duty. Nobody took an oath to outsource this duty to any outside organization. Unfortunately, some of my colleagues on the Senate Judiciary Committee are apparently willing to hand over their voting cards to the American Bar Association based on the claim that the ABA is an unbiased, indifferent umpire that just calls balls and strikes. The American Bar Association is not neutral. The ABA is a liberal organization that has publicly and consistently advocated for left-of-center positions for more than two decades now. The ABA has no right to special treatment by members of this body. It's pretty simple -- if you're playing in the game, you don't get to cherry pick who the referees are. Take just for a moment a look at the amicus briefs that they have filed in recent years. In district of Columbia v. Heller, the ABA supported denying an individual their constitutional right to keep and bear arms. In the Christian Legal Society v. Martinez, the ABA supported forcing Christian organizations on campuses to accept members that reject their faith. In Medellin v. Texas, the ABA forced states to recognize the judgments of the World Court in order to stop the execution of a gruesome murderer. In United States v. Windsor, the ABA supported the recognition of same-sex marriage through judicial fiat rather than through legislative debate. In Arizona v. United States, the ABA supported a constitutional ban on state and local law enforcement assisting and enforcing federal immigration laws, and the list goes on. In each of these cases, the ABA decided to wade into divisive and contentious issues. This is their right, indeed, but it is definitely not neutral. In each of these cases and many more, the ABA took what can only be described as left-of-center positions. In each of these cases, the ABA was picking a side. Again, to be clear, they are absolutely allowed to do this. It is what makes this country great. But it's laughably naive to suggest that they are an objective and neutral organization. They are not. The ABA cannot make liberal arguments to the nine members of the Supreme Court and then walk across the street and seriously expect that the hundred members of this body in the United States Senate will be treating them like unbiased appraisers. That is essentially what Attorney General Bill Barr said in 1992 when the ABA first began to openly take pro-abortion positions, which, by the way, led to thousands of members quitting in protest because those members knew that the ABA claims to neutrality about political issues were no longer even possibly defensible. Then U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr commented on the ABA's pro-abortion advocacy at the time, and I quote, “by adopting the resolution and thereby endorsing one side of this debate, the ABA will endanger the perception that it is an impartial and objective association.” Twenty-five years later, Barr's words were right. His words ring true. Again, I want to be perfectly clear. The ABA is allowed to have any view that its members want to have, and they are allowed to advocate and to protest on behalf of those views and on behalf of their members. This is America, and that's exactly what the first amendment is about. That is fine, but what's not fine is that the ABA, which is a liberal advocacy organization, would masquerade as a neutral and objective evaluator of judicial candidates. The ABA cannot take blatantly liberal positions on the one hand and then masquerade as a neutral party on the other and then demand a special seat at the table in the Senate Judiciary Committee and in the Senate, in this body, to try to tell us who is and isn't supposedly qualified to be a judge. Just like the ABA has every right to advance its liberal policy positions, every senator has the right and indeed the duty to give our advice and consent on judicial nominees. If senators decide that they like and value the ABA's policy positions and they like and value the ABA's ratings, they are free to give them due deference and consideration. But don't hide behind it. Don't pretend that the ABA is something that it is not. Do not ignore the facts of what the ABA has become. The American people deserve honesty, not thinly veiled partisanship.
11.08.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after meeting with over 60 Nebraska National Guard soldiers and airmen on Capitol Hill. “Whether it’s helping our neighbors after a natural disaster or defending American interests, Nebraskans know that we can depend on the men and women of our National Guard to be there for us in our times of need,” said Sasse. “As we take Veterans Day to pause and thank those around us who have served in our Armed Forces, I’m thankful that we were able to welcome Nebraska’s Guard to our nation’s capital.”
11.02.2017	"We should completely dispel with the fiction that the American Bar Association is a fair and impartial arbiter of facts." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, went to the Senate floor to defend Nebraska's former Chief Deputy Attorney General and current nominee for the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Steve Grasz from a smear campaign orchestrated by the American Bar Association. Sasse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below. I rise on the floor today with a simple message -- we should completely dispel with the fiction that the American Bar Association is a fair and impartial arbiter of facts. This is a sad reality, but it is the reality. Let's back up. We in this body have taken an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. Considering judicial nominees who have lifetime appointments is the most important thing that this Senate will do over the weeks ahead. It demands the full attention of every single member, Republican, Democrat, and independent. This ought to be an opportunity for this body to pause and stand back from the frenzy of day-to-day media cycles and cable news shouting and recommit ourselves to basic American civics and to some very basic American ideas. The idea that our three branches of government have three separate roles. The idea that we in the Article 1 branch, the lawmakers, make the laws because we stand before the people and can be hired and fired. If the people are going to be in charge in our system, they need to be able to fire the people who make the laws. The idea that judges are explicitly not to make laws. The idea that judges do not have “R” and “D”, Republican and Democrat, behind their names, but rather that judges should be fairly and dispassionately ruling on the law and the facts. And the idea that all of us, temporary public servants, although the judiciary has their lifetime appointments, have the calling to be upholding and defending a system of limited government, again through our three differentiated roles. Unfortunately, over the last few days in this body, it's become clear that some of us are tempted to outsource our constitutional duties to an outside organization. That organization, the American Bar Association, purports to be a neutral arbiter but is frankly twisting its ratings process to drive a political agenda in an important nomination pending before this body. I'm referring specifically to the smear campaign of the ABA against Steve Grasz, a qualified public servant who has been nominated by the President to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Steve Grasz has decades of honorable service in Nebraska, including more than a decade as the Chief Deputy Attorney General of my state. Mr. Grasz is in fact eminently qualified for the circuit court bench, as has been testified to by Republicans and Democrats across our state. But let's set the scene first for the ABA's silly decision earlier this week to announce that they regard Steve Grasz as not qualified. I'll highlight three specific items. First, we should discuss the two people who interviewed Mr. Grasz and recognize that, unfortunately, they are blatant partisans with a sad track record of hackery. Second, the ABA Is trying to paint Mr. Grasz as an extremist simply because he did his job as the Chief Deputy Attorney General of Nebraska and defended Nebraskans and Nebraska laws that wanted to outlaw the most barbaric of abortion practices — partial-birth abortion. Third, we should talk about the obvious bigotry of cultural liberals evident in their interview process of Mr. Grasz when they asked him repeated questions about nonlegal matters that had nothing to do with the claims of competence of the ABA. First, let's talk about the two reviewers. The lead reviewer for the bar association on the Grasz nomination was Arkansas law professor Cynthia Nance. This is an encore performance for Ms. Nance because in 2006 she opposed then-nominee and now Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito because of his “pro-life agenda” and she argued that made him unqualified to sit on the U.S. Supreme Court. I wonder if there is anyone in this body who rejected her view then and voted to confirm now Justice Alito who would now somehow echo her claims that Justice Alito is not qualified to sit in the seat that he now holds? Hopefully we as a body are better than that. The ABA's second reviewer, Laurence Pulgram, is an attorney from San Francisco. A cursory glance at Mr. Pulgram’s political involvement shows a long track record of support for left-wing candidates and aggressive progressive political organizations. These are the reviewers who are setting themselves up as dispassionate umpires calling balls and strikes. It's hogwash. These are not umpires. These are folks in the starting lineup of the ABA, an organization that explicitly endorsed pro-abortion policies beginning two decades ago. To be clear, there is nothing wrong with Nance and Pulgram’s zealous advocacy. They enjoy First Amendment rights just like all 320 million Americans do. There is nothing wrong with advocacy. What's wrong here is advocacy disguised as objective analysis. And that's what's actually happening in the case of the Grasz nomination. This brings us to our second point about the ABA's treatment of Mr. Grasz. When you read their letter, it makes many anonymous claims that some people supposedly support the author's great worry about Grasz's alleged deeply held social views. But the closest thing the ABA ever comes to stating a fact let alone producing a smoking gun is the fact that as the Chief Deputy Attorney General of the state of Nebraska, Mr. Grasz did the job of the Chief Deputy Attorney General of the state of Nebraska. That's not news. Mr. President, it is no secret that the vast majority of Nebraskans are pro-life and, thus, it is no surprise that our state's laws reflect this. In the 1990s Nebraska outlawed the most horrifying of all abortion procedures, the partial-birth abortion. And lest anyone seek comfort behind empty euphemisms like choice, let's be very clear what the people of Nebraska were outlawing. The people of my state banned a gruesome and grotesque practice where a doctor partially delivers an unborn baby and while that baby girl's head is the only thing still in the mother's womb, the doctor would then collapse the baby's skull. If there's anyone in this body who believes that that's a good and a moral act, that it's a good and a moral thing to deliver that baby girl and then, moments before her complete and full entry into the world, to vacuum out her brains, please come to the floor, because few people believe that that is a good or a moral or a just act, or at least few would admit it openly. In fact, that's why just a few years later, federal law followed Nebraska's law and outlawed partial-birth abortion. But in the 1990s, when Nebraska first outlawed that partial-birth abortion procedure, many pro-abortion advocates brought suit, and Steve as Chief Deputy Attorney General of Nebraska, defended the law of our state. Which again is now the federal law. He defended that law because it was his job. He defended the law because that's what the people of Nebraska wanted when they said that this unspeakably barbaric procedure had no place in our state. And now, thankfully, has no place in our nation. Anyone who would paint Steve as an extremist needs to take a long, hard, and honest look at what he did as Chief Deputy Attorney General of Nebraska defending the laws of the state of Nebraska. Third, I know that the ABA has an august-sounding name, but here's the reality of the kinds of stuff they did in their interview of Mr. Grasz. They asked him, “What kind of schools do your kids go to?” I don't really understand the connection to their legal interview, and when they found out that his kids attended a religious institution, they asked him why they would go to a religious institution. Well, it turns out in my state, lots and lots of Lutherans and Catholics and lots of non-Lutherans and Catholics send their kids to Lutheran and Catholic schools. I don’t know what that has to do with someone’s competence, man or woman, to sit as an objective judge on a court of appeals, and yet the interviewers decided they should go there. Then they began to refer to Mr. Grasz repeatedly in the interview as "You people." They would frame questions to him and ask about “You people”. At one point, he finally paused and said, “Can you tell me who ‘you people’ are?” because at this point, he didn't know if it was pro-life people, people who send their kids to religious schools, maybe just Nebraskans. They informed him that they were using the term "You people" to mean conservatives or Republicans. In the course of their time with Mr. Grasz, their interview went from actual legal questions to just asking him more and more detail about his pro-life views. Again, that have nothing to do with the distinction between sitting on the bench as someone who applies facts and law and someone who in a private capacity or in his public capacity as the Chief Deputy Attorney General of Nebraska had been defending the laws of the state of Nebraska. ...I would hope that when the ABA comes before the judiciary committee, it recants of this very silly opinion of “not qualified” of a man who is eminently qualified and going to serve very well the people of not just the Eighth Circuit but this country on the Circuit Court of Appeals. I would hope that the ABA would recant this silly judgment. But if they do not, I think we should recognize that the fiction of the ABA as a serious organization that ought to be taken seriously as a neutral and partial arbiter of qualifications for the federal bench should be dispensed with and we in this body who've actually taken an oath to three separate but equal branches with differentiated roles of legislating, executing, and ultimately judging, would continue to affirm that distinction and that we should want judges who do not try to be super legislators but rather seek to attend themselves to the facts and the law as is indeed the calling of Article 3 branch judges.
11.01.2017	This morning, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse opened the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing to consider the nomination of Steve Grasz to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Sasse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: First I want to say thank you to Chairman Grassley for letting a rookie chair the hearing this morning. These confirmation hearings are special because they are opportunities to celebrate some of the best parts of American Civics. These are opportunities to teach our kids about the meaning of America, about our Constitution, and about the differences and limits of what judges vs. legislators can do in their respective callings. We are well-served to remind ourselves and our constituents that in the United States there are no Republican or Democratic judges on federal courts. If self-government means anything, it means that people who write laws can be voted out of office. That’s why the Constitution puts Congress in charge of writing the laws. My colleagues and I here in the Article 1 branch of government are lawmakers, not judges – and thus we can rightly be fired by the people.At the same time, if the rule of law means anything, it means that courts who decide cases must be dispassionate and impartial. Two things matter: the law and the facts. When someone comes before the court their gender, their skin, their faith, their personal political views do not matter. In the same way, a judge’s gender, skin, faith, and personal political views cannot decide your case. A good judge is not a Republican. A good judge is not a Democrat. A good judge is faithful to their oath to the Constitution and to the law, mindful of the facts, and committed to independence.I hope, for the sake of public trust and civic health, all of us on this panel on both sides would agree, and to that end I would like to begin my comments on Steve Grasz in the spirit of bipartisanship with the words of President Obama’s U.S. Attorney for Nebraska, Deborah Gilg. "Steve has always enjoyed a reputation for honesty, impeccable integrity and dedication to the rule of law," she wrote to this committee. Steve "possesses an even temperament well-suited for the bench and always acts with respect to all that interact with him."In my experience with Steve, that’s exactly right. Steve is a Nebraskan through and through. He’s a fifth-generation Nebraskan and like a lot of Nebraska kids, he grew up on a family farm – walking beans, raising sheep and pigs, branding cattle. That family farm in the Nebraska Panhandle taught hard work and honesty. The University of Nebraska taught him the law. He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. When he was a sophomore, he shared an umbrella with a lovely young woman at a Nebraska-Auburn football game (we won by the way). Verlyne is here with us today along with their four kids. They have been married for thirty-two years.Steve stayed in Nebraska for law school, graduated at the top of his class, and was the Executive Editor of the Nebraska Law Review. Steve went to work for Nebraskans, serving as the Chief Deputy Attorney General for more than a decade. He litigated multiple cases in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals, and the Nebraska Supreme Court. Whenever he was called on to argue on behalf of Nebraskans, Steve did so with integrity, humility, and decency. Steve bleeds Husker red but knows that a judge must clothe themselves in the black robes of impartiality. If Steve wanted to advance a policy agenda, I’m confident he would have run for office. But he didn’t. He’s here because he’s committed to an independent judiciary where fair and honest judges rule on the law and the facts. He’s here because he’s committed to an Article III branch that considers each case under law – not under what the judge wishes the law said.That’s why he’s here. That’s why we’re here. Because although we have different duties – one to legislate, one to judge – we have the same responsibility to uphold our constitution. I believe that Steve is ready to do that job. I would hope that my colleagues in this committee are ready to do ours.
11.01.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Navy’s report that deadly collisions in the Pacific were the results of avoidable errors. “We are dangerously underinvesting in our military. Training, readiness, and maintenance are hit the earliest – and tragic errors like this are the canary-in-the-mine warning bells.”
10.27.2017	Tonight, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs responded to Sasse’s October 17 letter by explaining that a secret, unauthorized waitlist had hidden 87 veterans’ delays at the VA in Omaha. “Eighty-seven veterans had their care delayed and the entire Department of Veterans Affairs – from Secretary Shulkin in Washington to our local partners who care for our neighbors in Omaha – needs to explain what concrete steps they’ll take to make sure this never happens again. Without the work of local journalists making Freedom of Information Act requests this audit probably would have stayed in the dark, and that speaks volumes about the need for a top-to-bottom culture of transparency and accountability inside this federal bureaucracy. This response is just the start and we need to work to make sure that our veterans receive the excellent and timely care they deserve.”
10.26.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Nebraska native Daniel Kritenbrink to be the next Ambassador to Vietnam. “The United States needs an Ambassador in Vietnam who will work to ensure our trade agreements and lead our diplomatic conversations. Dan Kritenbrink can do both of those. Nebraskans should be thrilled that the Administration selected one of our own to represent our country. We are beyond thankful for Dan’s lifelong commitment to public service, and for his family’s willingness to support his new calling.”
10.26.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after Nebraskan Greg Ibach was confirmed by the Senate to serve as Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. “Greg Ibach earned this USDA spot utilizing the honesty, determination, and smarts that Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers are known for. Whether it’s emphasizing the importance of agriculture or working hard to expand Nebraska’s trading partners, Greg has a proven track record of public service bringing common sense and innovative solutions to his work. Our agriculture communities will be served well.”
10.17.2017	"Nebraskans have no patience for improper treatment of our veterans, nor for attempts to cover it up." Tonight U.S. Senator Ben Sasse pushed the Department of Veterans Affairs for answers regarding reports that VA employees kept a secret waiting list of patients from Nebraska and Iowa, obscuring actual wait times for veterans who sought appointments. "The existence of a secret list ... is shocking," said Sasse, "and the VA’s refusal to answer questions about it is unacceptable and must be remedied immediately." The full text of the letter is found below. Dear Secretary Shulkin: A recent internal audit of the Veteran Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System reportedly revealed that employees kept a secret waiting list of patients from Nebraska and Iowa who had sought VA appointments, obscuring actual wait times for veterans. Existence of a secret list would violate Veterans Administration regulations that are meant to ensure fair and prompt treatment of our nation’s heroes. In response to media coverage of the audit, VA officials acknowledged the investigation but "declined to answer questions about the audit."The existence of a secret list or lists of those denied appointments or for whom treatment was delayed is shocking, and the VA’s refusal to answer questions about it is unacceptable and must be remedied immediately. I trust you share this view. Accordingly, please provide answers to the following questions no later than Friday, October 20th: How many Nebraska veterans were affected by the secret lists? Who at the VA kept the lists? What exactly did the audit indicate was the reason for the existence of the lists? How many VA employees were disciplined as a result of the investigation and what disciplinary actions were taken? Did any employee that has been or is in the process of being disciplined as a result of the investigation receive bonuses for the achievement of metrics linked to performance data implicated in the investigation of the secret lists? What legal standards or authority has the VA cited or otherwise used, if any, in its refusal to identify how many Nebraska veterans were affected, why the lists were maintained, and how many VA employees were disciplined? Please include a copy of the full internal audit with your responses. Nebraskans have no patience for improper treatment of our veterans, nor for attempts to cover it up. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important issue.Sincerely, Ben Sasse Nebraskans have no patience for improper treatment of our veterans, nor for attempts to cover it up. https://t.co/Zkt8ZjtqqC — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) October 18, 2017
10.17.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the news that U.S.-backed forces have captured Raqqa from ISIS. "We should celebrate the fall of ISIS in Raqqa and the liberation of those who were living under terrorist oppression. We should also understand that we've captured and lost cities before, so this is no time to let off of the gas. This victory underscores the need for a comprehensive Syria strategy because our military, our partners and allies, and those brave souls who are literally fighting for their homes and for their neighbors deserve nothing less than our full commitment to see this through." We celebrate the fall of ISIS in Raqqa & the liberation of the oppressed, but this is no time to let off of the gas. https://t.co/REBjJcXVWf pic.twitter.com/5Xl7lAA5bF — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) October 17, 2017
10.12.2017	"Are you tonight recanting of the oath you took on January 20th to preserve, protect, and defend the First Amendment?" U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following release tonight after President Trump yet again attacked the First Amendment.“Mr. President: Words spoken by the President of the United States matter. Are you tonight recanting of the oath you took on January 20th to preserve, protect, and defend the First Amendment?”
10.05.2017	"Nobody out-works Nebraska and nobody knows that better than Greg Ibach. Greg has built his whole life on honesty and hustle. He's the man for the job and Nebraskans couldn't be prouder." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse introduced Greg Ibach at his hearing before the Senate Agriculture Committee to consider his nomination for Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory programs. Senator Sasse’s prepared remarks are found below."It is with great pleasure that I am able to introduce to you Greg Ibach. Greg has been nominated to serve as USDA Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. Nobody out-works Nebraska and nobody knows that better than Greg Ibach. Greg has built his whole life on honesty and hustle. He's the man for the job and Nebraskans couldn't be prouder. A Nebraskan through and through, Greg has served our state and our agriculture community well. He has served three different governors as the Director of the Nebraska Department of Agriculture, a confluence of his life’s work farming, ranching, and promoting Nebraska agriculture. Nebraskans know that our state’s agriculture trade has grown in the global marketplace because of Greg’s efforts to tirelessly promote our commodities. Greg built and maintained stakeholder relationships and initiated strategies to promote Nebraska agriculture domestically and internationally, allowing us to become the breadbasket of the world.Greg will bring a personal vigor to the USDA that analyses issues, develops strategies and creates solutions for domestic and global initiatives. Greg has a proven public service record defined by executing innovative approaches and consensus among diversified agriculture constituencies. Greg has empowered the employees at the Nebraska Department of Agriculture to achieve shared visionary goals and his leadership will resonate well with the goals Secretary Perdue has shared with the committee to execute the USDA’s mission of providing economic opportunity through innovation and helping rural America thrive. Greg’s unrelenting work has expanded youth involvement and leadership in agriculture. He has brought high school juniors and seniors from around the state together to explore agriculture as a career and gain personal growth and leadership through the Nebraska Agriculture Youth Institute. NAYI celebrated 46 years in 2017, and is the longest running agriculture youth program of its kind in the nation with over 200 students attending each year. Greg understands what the future of agriculture looks like and his leadership at USDA should bring comfort to hard working producers and hungry consumers across America. Again, Chairman Roberts, Ranking Member Stabenow and Members of this Committee, it is a pleasure on behalf of the State of Nebraska to introduce Greg Ibach and I would also like to recognize his wife Teresa. As Greg enters into this new calling, I look forward to working with him upon his confirmation."
10.05.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding reports that Russia stole highly classified information from the National Security Agency regarding American offensive and defensive cybersecurity measures. “It’s a lot harder to beat your opponent when they’re reading your playbook, and it’s even worse when someone on your team gives it to them. If these reports are true, Russia has pulled that off. The men and women of the U.S. Intelligence Community are patriots; but, the NSA needs to get its head out of the sand and solve its contractor problem. Russia is a clear adversary in cyberspace and we can’t afford these self-inflicted injuries.” Russia is a clear adversary in cyberspace and we can’t afford these self-inflicted injuries. https://t.co/tKA0uQyeig pic.twitter.com/82VCTw9vmu — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) October 5, 2017
10.05.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) joined Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Joni Ernst (R-IA), and James Lankford (R-OK) in introducing the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The legislation would provide common-sense protections for unborn children at 20 weeks after fertilization, a point at which there is significant scientific evidence that abortion inflicts tremendous pain on these vulnerable human beings. On Tuesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Pain-Capable legislation by a vote of 237-189. “Washington has a debate between empty euphemisms like ‘choice’ and basic science – none of the usual euphemisms change the fact that a 20-week old baby can see, swallow, and flex her arms and legs,” said Senator Ben Sasse. “Americans rightly condemn human rights abuses around the world because we judge societies on how they take care of their most vulnerable members – there’s no good reason for the United States to be on a list of human rights abusers like China and North Korea in allowing these kinds of abortions.” “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period, including China and North Korea. The United States should not be in that club,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “I don’t believe abortion, five months into pregnancy, makes us a better nation. America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us and the sooner we pass this legislation into law, the better. We are on the right side of history.” “At five month gestational age, babies have 10 fingers and 10 toes, they can yawn, stretch, make faces – and they can feel pain,” said Senator Joni Ernst. “It’s unconscionable that the United States is currently one of only 7 countries in the world that allows abortions after five months; we are currently in the same company of China and North Korea. I’m fighting for this legislation in honor of my friend and fellow Iowan, Micah Pickering, an incredible 5 year old who was born prematurely, at five months gestation. This legislation could protect up to 10,000 lives like Micah’s every year by preventing abortions after about 5 months of development, and it is absolutely critical that the Senate take up this legislation to protect our most vulnerable.” “The United States is one of only seven countries, including North Korea, that allow abortion at five months of pregnancy,” said Senator James Lankford. “I applaud the House for passing this bill; it is now time for the Senate to act on this. So many children are alive, healthy, and growing today who were born prematurely at five months pregnancy. We should not allow elective abortions past five months of pregnancy, especially when science shows that unborn babies feel pain at this stage.” The legislation has been cosponsored by forty-five senators, including Senators John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, John Boozman, Richard Burr, Bill Cassidy, Thad Cochran, Bob Corker, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton, Mike Crapo, Ted Cruz, Steve Daines, Joni Ernst, Mike Enzi, Jeff Flake, Deb Fischer, Chuck Grassley, Orrin Hatch, John Hoeven, James Inhofe, Johnny Isakson, Ron Johnson, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Mike Lee, Jerry Moran, John McCain, Mitch McConnell, Rand Paul, David Perdue, Rob Portman, James Risch, Pat Roberts, Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio, Ben Sasse, Tim Scott, Richard Shelby, Luther Strange, Dan Sullivan, John Thune, Thom Tillis, Pat Toomey, Roger Wicker, and Todd Young. ### Background on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act At the age of 20 weeks post-fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Anesthesia is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based in science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. HIGHLIGHTS: This legislation protects unborn babies after 20 weeks or five months, more than halfway through the pregnancy. The United States is one of only seven countries that allows on-demand abortions past 20 weeks. The other six are: North Korea, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Canada, and the Netherlands. Pain-Capable legislation has already passed in Nebraska and other states. They include South Carolina, Ohio, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Indiana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas, Idaho, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, and Arizona. Advances in modern medicine help babies born at 20, 21 and 22 weeks post-fertilization survive outside the womb. The pain these babies feel outside the womb gives evidence to the pain their unborn counterparts feel while in utero. Ultrasounds show unborn babies at 20 weeks sucking their thumb, yawning, stretching and making faces. Summary of Provisions: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would make it illegal for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion without first making a determination of the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child. If the post-fertilization age of the unborn child is determined to be 20 weeks or greater, an abortion shall not be performed, unless – It is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman; The pregnancy is a result of rape and the woman has received medical treatment or counseling at least 48 hours prior to the abortion; or if she chooses to do so, has made a report to law enforcement; or The pregnancy is a result of rape or incest against a minor and the abuse is reported to either social services or law enforcement. In the case of the exceptions – the abortion may only proceed in a manner that provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive unless that would pose a greater risk of death or serious bodily injury to the pregnant woman; and the abortion provider must receive informed consent from the pregnant woman, certifying that she has been provided the child’s gestational age, a description of the law, and her rights under the law. A woman on whom an abortion was performed in violation of this Act may bring a civil action against the abortion provider in court to recover damages. Abortion doctors are required to submit annual data to the National Center for Health and Statistics providing statistical information about abortions carried out after 20 weeks post-fertilization age. The criminal punishment for a violation of this Act is imprisonment of up to five years, fines, or both. The Act makes clear that a woman who receives an illegal abortion in violation of this act may not be prosecuted.
10.04.2017	Despite Jeopardizing Personal Data of Millions, Equifax Receives New Contract to Assist IRS in Identity Verification United States Senators Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) today raised concerns about the recent decision by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to award Equifax a $7.2 million contract to handle sensitive taxpayer information, despite the company’s recent data breach exposing the personal information of over 145 million Americans. Earlier this week, the IRS posted the award of a new, short-term, $7.2 million sole-source contract with Equifax “to verify taxpayer identity and to assist in ongoing identity verification and validations needs of the” IRS. “Right now, no businesses or consumers in Massachusetts or Nebraska would blindly trust Equifax to protect against fraud or handle sensitive personal information,” wrote the senators. “It is surprising that the IRS would choose to do so given its legal obligations to protect Americans’ privacy. The catastrophic breach at Equifax puts a significant burden on the company to earn any government contract, and on the IRS to explain fully why such a contract was awarded. If the IRS cannot sufficiently do so, this contract should be rescinded.” The senators wrote to Commissioner John Koskinen, posing a series of questions about the department’s decision-making process for the contract, including whether or not Equifax had committed to new cybersecurity requirements in the wake of the breach. Senators Sasse and Warren both questioned former Equifax CEO Richard Smith during a Banking Committee hearing about the data breach earlier today. Senator Sasse also questioned Mr. Smith about the details of the company’s contract with the IRS. Senator Warren pressed him on how the company might profit from selling more fraud prevention services in the wake of its recent security breach.
09.27.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding Medica’s announcement that it would increase premium rates for the individual insurance market in Nebraska by an average of 31 percent in 2018. Medica will be the only insurance company offering ObamaCare coverage in Nebraska next year. “Today’s news is a disaster. As long as ObamaCare is on the books, Nebraska families are going to continue to suffer. Medica’s fifteen-times-the-rate-of-inflation price hike is a perfect example of ObamaCare’s cruel dilemma: the law forces families to buy insurance from the only company left, and then the law makes that insurance crazy expensive. Big insurance companies with Washington lobbyists don’t suffer but families here in Nebraska sure do.”
09.26.2017	United States Senator Ben Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, praised the Administration’s decision to target eight North Korean banks and dozens of bank representatives working in China, Russia, Libya, and the United Arab Emirates. “These sanctions turn the screw on those bankrolling Kim Jong-un’s nuclear ambitions from the shadows. The decision to further isolate Pyongyang’s dictatorship is not just a display of American economic strength but also a clear warning to anyone thinking of doing business with this despot.” Additional Background: Since May, Senator Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, has worked to highlight the utility of secondary sanctions against China to force additional pressure on North Korea.
09.21.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, issued the following statement, praising the Administration’s new executive order to target North Korea’s trading partners. “The United States is an economic and military superpower and trade is an effective weapon. Kim Jong-un must understand that there are consequences to threatening the American people and our allies. These new sanctions are aimed squarely at North Korea’s despot but also remind China that it has a strong interest in preventing a nuclear arms race in Asia.” Additional Background: Earlier this month, Senator Sasse strongly condemned any U.S. exit from our trade deal with our ally South Korea.Since May, Senator Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, has worked to highlight the utility of secondary sanctions against China to force additional pressure on North Korea. We are an economic & military superpower & trade is an effective weapon. Full statement on new North Korea sanctions:https://t.co/mvrVXZv6MU pic.twitter.com/DhRooapyu9 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 21, 2017
09.19.2017	Today, after President Trump forcefully condemned North Korea at the United Nations in New York City, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse met with South Korean Trade Minister Hyun-Chong Kim. “The United States must confront North Korea’s dictatorship – through diplomatic measures if possible or through military action if necessary. Trade Minister Kim and I agree that trade plays a critical role in that diplomatic response in two ways. First, we want to strengthen our alliance through trade that benefits Nebraskans and South Koreans. Second, sanctions can put pressure on North Korea’s despot and force China to step up and prevent a nuclear arms race in its backyard.” Additional Background: Earlier this month, Senator Sasse strongly condemned any U.S. exit from our trade deal with our ally South Korea.Since May, Senator Sasse, the Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, has worked to highlight the utility of secondary sanctions against China to force additional pressure on North Korea.
09.19.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement after the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved a proposal from Senator Sasse and Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) to establish a bipartisan Syria Study Group to undertake a comprehensive and strategic policy review of American policy in Syria. “ISIS has lost ground in Syria but we need a strategy to make sure that we don’t let off the gas,” said Senator Sasse. “The American people still need a strategy – not a speech, not a press release, not a list of goals, but a clear and comprehensive strategy.” Additional background: In July, Senators Sasse and Shaheen called for a Syria Study Group if the White House did not provide a strategy. The Senators wrote that the Syria Study Group would “allow Congress to support a policy approach that closes the current gap between U.S. goals and concrete U.S. commitments while ensuring that any escalation of U.S. involvement in Syria is not undertaken for tactical gains alone but is part of a strategy to achieve critical U.S. objectives.” Their letter is available here. Text of the Sasse-Shaheen amendment, which was added to the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act of 2017, can be found here. ISIS has lost ground in #Syria but we need a strategy to make sure that we don’t let off the gas. https://t.co/VKXCkh2yk5 pic.twitter.com/gU8OEKvfbS — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 19, 2017
09.18.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after the Senate passed the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which includes several pieces of Sasse’s cybersecurity and data transparency legislation. "Cyber war isn’t science fiction – it’s happening right now but Washington still isn’t taking it seriously," said Sasse. "We have a long way to go but I’m encouraged that this year’s defense bill includes these modest steps toward a serious cyber doctrine and an agile talent pipeline. We’re not operating in a vacuum and, while our adversaries build and develop, we need to make sure our military addresses cybersecurity with the urgency it demands." "For more than a year, I’ve worked with Senator Schatz to drag Washington into the 21st century when it comes to data," continued Sasse. "Our OPEN Government Data Act is simple: government data should be made public unless an administration can make a compelling reason to keep it under wraps. This legislation passed the Senate last Congress and, with tonight’s passage, I’m glad to carry the momentum forward." Background on Sasse’s suite of cybersecurity and data transparency measures is found below. Cyber Deterrence Under Sasse’s legislation, the Secretary of Defense will have 180 days to submit to Congress a report on cyber doctrine that includes (1) a thorough explanation of the various theoretical approaches to deterrence, (2) an assessment of the relative strengths and weaknesses of such approaches, (3) a recommendation for a cyber deterrence theory and doctrine for the U.S. Armed Forces, and (4) a dissenting view that outlines weaknesses and offers an alternative theory. Human Capital and Readiness In separate Sasse legislation, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the Senate and House Armed Services Committees on the feasibility for a program allowing the Secretary of Defense to waive any requirement in law for the possession of a baccalaureate degree as a condition of employment for certain cybersecurity and computer programming positions for individuals who have demonstrated expertise. Additional Sasse legislation allows eligible service members to use the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance for courses in cybersecurity and computer coding at institutions approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Data Transparency The 2018 NDAA also includes The OPEN Government Data Act, authored by U.S. Senators Ben Sasse and Brian Schatz (D-HI). The legislation would require, by default, the data included at Data.gov to be machine-readable format to make it accessible to anyone and easily searchable. It also protects privacy and national security information when making federal government data available to the public while requiring federal agencies use it to improve decision making. The legislation was passed last December, during the 114th Congress, by the United States Senate. Encouraged this year’s #NDAA includes these modest steps toward a serious cyber doctrine & an agile talent pipeline. https://t.co/6m10q5Qwfw — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 18, 2017
09.08.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse sent a letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long, demanding answers regarding FEMA's decision to deny disaster relief funding to three churches seeking to rebuild their communities in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. "This policy discriminates against people of faith," wrote Sasse. "It sends the message that communities of worship aren’t welcome to participate fully in public life.... It reduces the facilities and volunteer time, talent, and effort available to support the broader community. And it is inconsistent with the Supreme Court’s recent 7-2 ruling in Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer.... In other words, it is unjust. It is unconstitutional. It is unreasonable. And it is impeding ongoing recovery efforts." Full text of the letter can be found below: September 08, 2017 Dear Administrator Long, All across the country, Americans have been closely watching rescue and restoration efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, amazed at the uncomplaining resilience of Texans. While our hearts break for the families who have lost lives and homes, they also swell with pride in the volunteers, neighbors, and first responders who sprang to action. That’s what America is about, and that’s why it is particularly disturbing to hear reports that FEMA has denied three churches disaster funds to help rebuild their communities. As Congress works to mobilize resources for those affected by this disaster, one of our duties is to exercise our oversight authority to ensure that taxpayer money is being spent efficiently and effectively. In the wake of Harvey’s devastation and in anticipation of future times of need—especially in light of the potential for catastrophic damage from Hurricane Irma—there is no room for discriminatory policies that hinder the tasks of recovery and rebuilding. That is why I am disturbed to learn of FEMA’s refusal to allow religious Americans equal access to disaster aid. When disasters strike, it’s our churches, synagogues, mosques, and other religious organizations that spring into action, offering crucial facilities, manpower, and numerous other forms of support to affected communities. For the victims of a disaster such as Harvey, so many of whom have lost their home or—worse yet—their loved ones, it’s these institutions that provide the helping hands to rebuild suddenly shattered lives. Nevertheless, religious organizations are not themselves immune from the devastating effects of disasters. Indeed, some of the most inspiring stories we’ve heard in recent days involve communities of worship going the extra mile to help their neighbors even as they themselves have suffered catastrophic damage. But even as these communities inspire the nation by facing even the most difficult circumstances with a servant’s heart, FEMA categorically excludes institutions that use their facilities primarily for religious purposes from receiving recovery aid grants available to otherwise similarly situated non-profit organizations.[1] When facilities for stamp and coin collecting are eligible for aid,[2] but houses of worship aren’t, something has gone seriously wrong. What are the consequences of this policy? Obviously, this policy discriminates against people of faith. It sends the message that communities of worship aren’t welcome to participate fully in public life. It incentivizes these groups to focus their resources on the damage their own facilities sustained. It reduces the facilities and volunteer time, talent, and effort available to support the broader community. And it is inconsistent with the Supreme Court’s recent 7-2 ruling in Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer, in which the Court held that the exclusion of a religious organization “from a public benefit for which it is otherwise qualified, solely because it is a church, is odious to our Constitution . . . and cannot stand.”[3] In other words, it is unjust. It is unconstitutional. It is unreasonable. And it is impeding ongoing recovery efforts. In light of this troubling policy, please provide answers to the following questions: How long has FEMA maintained a policy[4] that religious organizations are ineligible for disaster recovery aid? Please provide a copy of every policy on religious organizations’ eligibility since the enactment of the Stafford Act.[5] In the months since the Supreme Court’s decision in Trinity Lutheran, has FEMA taken any steps to reexamine this policy to ensure its compliance with the Court’s holding? Will you commit to using any and all expedited authorities at your disposal to suspend or limit the application of the policy to ongoing recovery efforts? Will you commit to a full revision of the policy to correct the legal, moral, and practical problems with the policy identified above? In light of the need for expedited action, please respond in writing in the next 30 days. If you have any questions, please contact my staff at (202) 224-4224. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Ben Sasse United States Senator [1] Fed. Emergency Mgmt. Agency, Public Assistance Program and Policy Guide, FP 104-009-2 at 12 (April 2017). [2] Id. at 14. [3] Trinity Lutheran Church of Columbia, Inc. v. Comer, No. 15–577, slip op. at 15 (U.S. June 26, 2017). [4] “Policy” here refers to the requirement that “[f]acilities established or primarily used for . . . religious . . . activities are not eligible” for financial assistance under FEMA’s Public Assistance Program. Public Assistance Program and Policy Guide, supra note 1, at 12. [5] Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Pub. L. No. 100-707, 102 Stat. 4689 (1988).
09.07.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse will file an amendment to reject the Schumer fiscal deal and instead pass the same straightforward disaster relief package that passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 419-3. "Yesterday we saw Washington’s swamp continue to rise: Chuck Schumer wrote the art of the steal by taking hurricane relief hostage to guarantee a December showdown that favors Democratic spending priorities. Republicans should reject Schumer’s deal and instead pass the same clean aid package for Harvey victims that the House passed yesterday. My legislation would let Congress send a disaster relief bill to the President’s desk so we can help Americans in need right now and then get to work tackling the disorder in our fiscal house." We should fund emergency hurricane relief. We shouldn't spend other $ pretending it's emergency hurricane relief. https://t.co/N7D022fHct pic.twitter.com/a3btdSfKwq — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 7, 2017
09.06.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the three-month fiscal deal cut by President Trump and Democratic Congressional Leadership. "The Pelosi-Schumer-Trump deal is bad."
09.03.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding reports that North Korea tested a hydrogen bomb, the dictatorship's most powerful nuclear weapon yet. "If North Korea has in fact successfully tested a nuclear warhead that can be loaded onto an intercontinental ballistic missile, Kim Jong-un is clearly threatening the American people. He must be confronted. "The United States, our allies and partners, and those who are still enabling Pyongyang must confront and change Kim Jong-un's calculus of terror. Diplomatically if we can. Militarily if we must."
09.02.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding news that the Administration may exit the United States' trade deal with our ally South Korea. "The President and Nebraska have a basic disagreement about trade. His Administration holds 18th-century views of trade as a zero-sum game. I side with our farmers and ranchers who are feeding the world now."
09.01.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s nomination of Greg Ibach to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. "A Nebraskan through and through, Greg has served our state well, and I have full faith that he will serve America with the same skill and hard work. Nebraska's farmers and ranchers congratulate Greg and his family on the President's decision to invite him to this new calling."
08.30.2017	Senators lead Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance that held hearing on North Korean sanctions in May As North Korea continues its unacceptable provocations, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) continue to push for increased sanctions on both North Korea and China designed to crack down on the rogue regime’s weapons program. Sasse and Donnelly sent a letter today to Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Ranking Member Sherrod Brown (D-OH) outlining recent findings on North Korean sanctions and outlining key questions for future full committee hearings. Sasse and Donnelly serve as Ranking Member and Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance. Building on a May subcommittee hearing, Sasse and Donnelly encouraged the Banking Committee to push the Administration on its options to expand sanctions and highlight the additional tools available to punish North Korea and those who assist in their illegal activity. Sasse and Donnelly said in their letter, in part, “As you plan the Banking Committee’s schedule for the coming months, we welcome your consideration of a full committee hearing on sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK)…On May 10, 2017, the Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance held a hearing on ‘Secondary Sanctions against Chinese Institutions: Assessing Their Utility for Constraining North Korea.’ “…there is a strong consensus that the level of pressure necessary to get the Kim regime to the table, let alone reach an agreement, will be extraordinarily high and must be coupled with a full court diplomatic effort with our allies and with China directly to persuade China to engage more directly with the DPRK. It is our shared belief that the current multilateral sanctions may be insufficient to achieve this goal, even after the progress made at the United Nations in August. Continued U.S. engagement and leadership will therefore be critical in the months ahead and must include a comprehensive effort to ensure rigorous enforcement of all U.S. and multilateral sanctions. “…Finally, and most importantly, our witnesses stressed that increasing sanctions pressure on the DPRK to the level necessary to force negotiations requires a deliberate, forceful, and coordinated diplomatic effort by the United States coupled with tough sanctions enforcement.” To read the full letter click here or read below: August 30, 2017 The Honorable Mike CrapoChairmanU.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs The Honorable Sherrod BrownRanking MemberU.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Dear Chairman Crapo and Ranking Member Brown: As you plan the Banking Committee’s schedule for the coming months, we welcome your consideration of a full committee hearing on sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). This is an important and timely subject. We are writing to share with you some key findings and issues worthy of further review from our subcommittee’s examination of the impact U.S. and international sanctions are having on Kim Jong-Un’s regime and its pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. On May 10, 2017, the Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance held a hearing on “Secondary Sanctions against Chinese Institutions: Assessing Their Utility for Constraining North Korea.” With the DPRK already largely isolated from the global economy, China accounts for more than 90 percent of the DPRK’s total trade and is the economic lifeline of the Kim regime. China’s support of new multilateral sanctions in 2016 and especially the most recent United Nations (UN) Security Council resolution passed with unanimous support in 2017 marks meaningful progress. However, the fact remains that China has a mixed record on enforcing both the letter and the spirit of sanctions against the DPRK. For example, despite agreeing to UN sanctions packages in 2016, China’s trade with the DPRK in the first quarter of 2017 was up nearly 40 percent from the same period in 2016. Our hearing included testimony from Juan Zarate and Adam Szubin, former Treasury Department officials and widely respected sanctions experts whose service spans Republican and Democratic administrations. The witnesses agreed on many key points, a few of which we highlight below. First, both witnesses believe, cautiously, that it is possible to generate enough sanctions pressure to force the DPRK government to the table to negotiate a verifiable end to its nuclear weapons program. As Mr. Szubin stated, “North Korea is not self-reliant or ‘sanctions proof.’” However, there is a strong consensus that the level of pressure necessary to get the Kim regime to the table, let alone reach an agreement, will be extraordinarily high and must be coupled with a full court diplomatic effort with our allies and with China directly to persuade China to engage more directly with the DPRK. It is our shared belief that the current multilateral sanctions may be insufficient to achieve this goal, even after the progress made at the United Nations in August. Continued U.S. engagement and leadership will therefore be critical in the months ahead and must include a comprehensive effort to ensure rigorous enforcement of all U.S. and multilateral sanctions. Second, while our witnesses agreed that the U.S. will need to sanction Chinese entities to strengthen enforcement against the DPRK, they called for nuance and collaboration over a directly adversarial approach between Washington and Beijing. They call for operating within a framework of law and order, working together with China to, as Mr. Zarate put it, “isolate rogue financial and commercial activity and those flouting legitimate authority.” Without this kind of collaboration, Mr. Szubin argued, threatening or imposing secondary sanctions against Chinese targets “may change the conduct of individual Chinese entities… but it will not bring about the kind of comprehensive and sustained crackdown by Chinese authorities, traders, bankers and businesspeople that is required to bring North Korea to the table. That type of sanctions pressure will only be achieved when the Chinese government agrees to apply it.” Finally, and most importantly, our witnesses stressed that increasing sanctions pressure on the DPRK to the level necessary to force negotiations requires a deliberate, forceful, and coordinated diplomatic effort by the United States coupled with tough sanctions enforcement. Mr. Zarate stated, “To be effective, an attempt to use sanctions or financial measures of any sort must nest within a coherent strategy and cannot stand alone.” China must be persuaded that our paramount interest in addressing the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs is not necessarily at odds with their principal interest in avoiding regime collapse. We hope these fundamental findings are useful to you as you consider calling current administration officials to testify before the full committee and recommend the following questions as worthy of further consideration by the committee: · What is North Korea’s objective in pursuing its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles programs, and what are its internal and external objectives with regards to the geographic paths of its missiles and its rate of current testing? · What is the administration’s strategy on the DPRK? What is the end goal on the DPRK and will the strategy achieve that goal? · How does the Defense Intelligence Agency’s assessment, as reported in the press, that the DPRK has miniaturized a nuclear weapon alter the administration’s end goal or strategy? · How does the sanctions-related and illicit finance work of the Treasury Department, specifically the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, nest within this strategy? · What, if any, additional authorities does Treasury need to implement its strategy? · How are Treasury Department officials working with other relevant departments and agencies to coordinate efforts on the DPRK? · Does Treasury believe it has sufficient mechanisms in place to prevent North Korea from circumventing sanctions via illicit activities and underground markets? · Is the Treasury Department sufficiently resourced to monitor primary and secondary sanctions against the DPRK? · Do Treasury Department officials agree that it is possible to bring the DPRK to the negotiating table through sanctions pressure, and if so, are stronger U.S. or multilateral sanctions necessary to achieve that goal? · How will the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (P.L. 115-44) be used by the Treasury Department to increase sanctions pressure on the DPRK? Thank you for your consideration of our input. We look forward to working with you to address this timely and important matter before the full committee. Sincerely, Ben SasseChairmanSubcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance Joe DonnellyRanking MemberSubcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance
08.11.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the President’s comments on a "possible military option" in Venezuela."No. Congress obviously isn't authorizing war in Venezuela. Nicolas Maduro is a horrible human being, but Congress doesn’t vote to spill Nebraskans' blood based on who the Executive lashes out at today."
08.03.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after sending a letter to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency demanding answers about Nemias Garcia-Velasco's immigration status, after the multi-time deportee Garcia-Velasco was charged with homicide. "We cannot let these tragedies become the new normal,” said Sasse. "The revolving door for dangerous illegal aliens needs to stop. ICE has to step up, answer Nebraskan’s questions, and fix this broken enforcement system.” Text of the letter can be found below: Dear Mr. Homan, Nemias Garcia-Velasco—an illegal alien who was removed from the United States more than half-a-dozen times, convicted of falsely claiming U.S. citizenship, and arrested with a blood alcohol level more than three times the legal limit—was charged with homicide after causing a fiery crash. This case raises serious concerns about public safety, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement owes Nebraskans a thorough explanation for why this man was allowed in the country. On Wednesday, July 5, 2017 at approximately 1:00 PM, Nemias Garcia-Velasco was driving at a speed of more than 100 miles per hour on Interstate 80 approaching the Interstate 680 split in Omaha, one of the busiest interchanges in our state.[1] He lost control of the vehicle, hitting a guardrail and a bridge abutment before the van rolled and was engulfed in flames.[2]The crash killed one man and injured a 16-year-old boy.[3] After Garcia-Velasco himself was taken to the hospital, his blood alcohol content was measured at 0.243, more than three times the legal limit of 0.08.[4] The Douglas County Attorney’s Office has charged Garcia-Velasco with motor vehicle homicide.[5] At the initial hearing, the prosecutor detailed how the defendant had previously been removed from the United States a total of seven times, five times through voluntary return in 2005 and twice through deportation in 2009 and 2011.[6] Additionally, the prosecutor noted that Garcia-Velasco had previously been convinced of making a false claim of U.S. citizenship,[7]a felony punishable by up to three years of jail time.[8] Prosecutors noted that the defendant represents a flight risk and requested a high bail, which the judge set at $2,000,000.[9] Troublingly, this case is far from the only such tragedy to befall our community in recent months. As I have previously brought to the attention of your agency,[10] last year another illegal alien, Eswin Mejia, was reportedly street racing while intoxicated in Omaha when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of another vehicle.[11] Inside the other vehicle was Sarah Root, who had graduated college just hours before.[12] Ms. Root was rushed to the hospital, where she died from her injuries.[13] In light of Mejia’s past encounters with law enforcement that included a skipped court hearing and a subsequent warrant issued for his arrest, Omaha Police requested that ICE detain Mejia, but your agency refused to do so, allowing Mejia to disappear.[14] He remains at large, and Ms. Root’s grieving family and friends have been deprived of justice. These cases are just two examples from an emerging pattern of dangerous illegal aliens with troubling histories with law enforcement and immigration authorities being allowed to remain in this country, with deadly consequences for innocent people. Simply put, this is unacceptable. It is the responsibility of ICE to ensure that illegal aliens that pose a danger to public safety are successfully and permanently removed from our communities. Instead, it appears that ICE is presiding over a broken enforcement system that’s simply a revolving door. Nebraskans demand answers as to why individuals such as Garcia-Velasco and Mejia were allowed to pose a threat to innocent lives. Please answer the following questions: 1. How many times has Mr. Garcia-Velasco been returned to Mexico from the United States due to unlawful presence or other reason for removability? Please provide a list of all of his past departures, including date, process for return, reason(s) for removability, and location in which he was taken into custody. 2. What is the extent of Mr. Garcia-Velasco’s criminal record? In addition, please detail any pending criminal proceedings as well as any incidents known to ICE in which he was charged but not convicted, in which he was named as an unindicted co-conspirator, or in which law enforcement otherwise had probable cause to believe he had committed a crime or posed a danger to public safety. 3. Did Mr. Garcia-Velasco’s immigration and criminal record prior to the events of July 5, 2017 qualify him at any enumerated level of priority for enforcement under then-Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson’s November 20, 2014 civil enforcement memorandum? 4. Has ICE ever received any requests from other federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies to detain Mr. Garcia-Velasco? Please detail each occurrence, including ICE’s response and rationale for action or inaction. 5. Prior to the events of July 5, 2017, did ICE or any other federal law enforcement agency seek to interview or detain Mr. Garcia-Velasco? If so, was this effort ever impeded by any state or local jurisdiction due to a so-called “sanctuary” policy? 6. Under current policy, does ICE consider Mr. Garcia-Velasco to be a priority for enforcement? Please respond in writing within the next 30 days. If you have any questions, please contact my staff at (202) 224-4224 and know that I am eager to work with you to ensure your answers do not compromise any ongoing investigations or other sensitive law enforcement activities. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Ben Sasse United States Senator [1] Kevin Cole & Alia Conley, Prosecutor: Driver involved in fiery crash has been removed from U.S. 7 times, Omaha World-Herald, July 13, 2017, http://www.omaha.com/news/crime/prosecutor-driver-involved-in-fiery-crash-has-been-removed-from/article_5757731c-6645-11e7-9201-d7386ec44378.html. [2] Id. [3] Id. [4] Id. [5] Id. [6] Id. [7] Id. [8] See 18 U.S.C. § 911 (2012). [9] Cole & Conley, supra. [10] Letter from Ben Sasse to Sarah Saldana, Dir., U.S. Immigration & Customs Enf. (Feb. 29, 2016), https://www.sasse.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=29BE8539-6363-4B5F-94EA-F9F1B0883154. [11] Todd Cooper & Bob Glissmann, Systemic failures allowed man accused in motor vehicle homicide to vanish, Omaha World-Herald, Feb. 22, 2016, http://www.omaha.com/news/crime/systemic-failures-allowed-man-accused-in-motor-vehicle-homicide-to/article_7bb2a688-8bdb-554f-b795-4381b3e9d464.html. [12] Id. [13] Id. [14] Id.
08.01.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the Senate’s vote to confirm Christopher Wray as the new FBI director. "Chris Wray will bring character and competence to a city that is hemorrhaging public trust. Instead of more Washington partisan blood feuds and lazy hot takes, I expect that Director Wray will buckle down and get to work. This is good news for the American people and for the men and women who faithfully serve our country at the FBI."
07.26.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has repeatedly called on Senate Republicans to keep their word and fully repeal ObamaCare, issued the following statement after an amendment to repeal much of ObamaCare, with a delay to guarantee a stable transition, failed by a vote of 45-55. “Here are two whoppers: Democrats promised ‘if you like your plan you can keep your plan’ and Republicans promised to ‘fully repeal ObamaCare.’ President Trump won on that promise and, with just one exception, every member of the Republican majority already either voted for repeal or explicitly campaigned on repeal. Today’s repeal-and-delay amendment should have been an easy, kept promise for maximum repeal of ObamaCare through the reconciliation process. As we continue the debate, I’ll dig into every amendment my colleagues – both Republican and Democrat – offer, but make no mistake: Today’s vote is a major disappointment to people who were promised full repeal. We still have a long, long way to go – both in health policy and in honesty.” We still have a long, long way to go – both in health policy and in honesty. Full statement: https://t.co/FwXE0lHgI3 pic.twitter.com/Wyvt4GAySv — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 26, 2017
07.25.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the Senate voted on a procedural motion to start floor debate on the healthcare legislation. "Today’s vote allows the Senate to begin debating health reform legislation on the floor,” said Sasse. “This is step one in what's going to be a long process — I expect the Senate to immediately start the back and forth amendment process. If a bill ultimately passes, it will not be the House bill, but rather something that goes to a conference debate process with the House of Representatives."
07.20.2017	**New policy approach needed to achieve critical U.S. strategic objectives** **U.S. forces have come into direct, lethal contact with Russia-backed Syrian troops** **If White House does not provide Syria strategy, Congress must act** Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, are urging committee leaders to create a bipartisan panel that will undertake a comprehensive and strategic policy review of American policy in Syria, if the White House does not provide a strategy by the time the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) comes to the Senate floor. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee requesting the creation of a Syria Study Group, the senators wrote: “The Syrian civil war… serves as a continuing call to arms for terrorist groups and criminals around the world. The United States has focused its mission on defeating terrorists groups like the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), but an increasingly complex battlefield environment threatens progress made by the Counter-ISIS Coalition and complicates a future political settlement to the Syria crisis.” Sasse and Shaheen added: “The proposed Syria Study Group would, we believe, allow Congress to support a policy approach that closes the current gap between U.S. goals and concrete U.S. commitments while ensuring that any escalation of U.S. involvement in Syria is not undertaken for tactical gains alone but is part of a strategy to achieve critical U.S. objectives.” The Sasse/Shaheen letter calling for the creation of a Syria Study Group is available here.
07.14.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) led lawmakers in pressing federal law enforcement officials on whether so-called "sanctuary city" policies are “inhibiting efforts by federal law enforcement to protect our communities from human trafficking, drug trafficking, and other gang-related criminal activity.” In a letter, joined by Senators John Kennedy (R-LA) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), addressed to officials who testified recently before the Senate Judiciary Committee, the senators sought more information on these “sanctuary city” policies’ role in hampering cooperation between federal, state, and local law enforcement. “MS-13 thugs can’t get a free pass,” said Sasse. “These gangs, drug runners, and human traffickers threaten our communities and we should all be troubled when law enforcement can’t do their jobs effectively. Our policies shouldn’t operate as a shield to protect the most dangerous criminals.” Text of the letter can be found below: Dear Messrs. Albence and Blanco, Thank you for your recent testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary at the hearing entitled “The MS-13 Problem: Investigating Gang Membership, its Nexus to Illegal Immigration, and Federal Efforts to End the Threat.” During that hearing, troubling information came to light about so-called “sanctuary city” policies inhibiting efforts by federal law enforcement to protect our communities from human trafficking, drug trafficking, and other gang-related criminal activity. We write to you today to express serious concern about this matter and to follow up in an effort to illuminate the situation further. In response to questioning by Sen. Kennedy, Mr. Albence testified: There are some major cities in this country where I can’t even send my officers to go into the jail to interview someone that’s been arrested for a gang activity or is a known gang member, and we can’t go in there and identify that person and take an enforcement action against them.[1] On this topic of MS-13 members detained in sanctuary jurisdictions, he further stated: [I]n many cases, we know who these individuals are, we have biometric identifiers. They’ve been arrested by the Border Patrol, they’ve been or been arrested by ICE previously and removed and have reentered the country unlawfully. We know who they are. We know they’re gang members. We know they’re criminals, but if the county or the city does not allow us to get into the jail to make that final determination to process that individual for removal and take custody of that person, then they’re released back into the community to re-victimize.[2] He continued: We’re not asking the state or local agency to do anything besides give us access and transfer that individual to our custody at the completion of their criminal process so we can have a safe orderly transfer and then remove them from the country or prosecute them as accordingly.[3] Moreover, in response to questioning on the extent to which “that lack of access hamper your broader investigations to go after the criminal enterprise,”[4] Mr. Blanco described the effect in the following way: “[O]ur investigation is based on information that we receive, and if we’re unable to receive information, then it hurts our investigations, both locally, domestically, and internationally, so it does affect.”[5] Simply put, these disclosures should disturb every single law-abiding American, regardless of their views on immigration issues more broadly. Proponents of sanctuary-city policies have long advocated for these policies on the basis that they enhance public safety by facilitating cooperation between law enforcement and both legal and illegal aliens that would otherwise be hesitant to “report criminal activity or assist police in criminal investigations.”[6]Whatever one’s views of the merits of these arguments, public safety is reduced—not enhanced—when sanctuary policies operate as a shield to frustrate federal authorities’ efforts to prosecute or remove dangerous criminals. This effect is further amplified in situations involving members of gangs such as MS-13, an organization designated as a Transnational Criminal Organization by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for its involvement in “serious transnational criminal activities, including drug trafficking, kidnapping, human smuggling, sex trafficking, murder, assassinations, racketeering, blackmail, extortion, and immigration offenses.”[7] As noted in the hearing testimony, this situation endangers our communities not only because of the threat posed by the released individual that would otherwise be subject to prosecution or removal by federal authorities, but also because of the lost opportunity to frustrate the illicit activities of the associated criminal organization. To illuminate the extent of this very serious problem, please answer the following questions: To the best of your knowledge, how many times since 2007 have Immigration and Customs Enforcement or other federal law enforcement authorities been denied access to an actual or suspected illegal alien in the custody of state or local authorities in sanctuary jurisdictions when there is substantial evidence that the detainee in question has engaged in human trafficking, drug trafficking, or other gang-related criminal activities? To the best of your knowledge in these instances, what statutes, ordinances, enforcement policies, and the like did the state or local authorities in question rely upon as the basis for their failure to cooperate with federal authorities? In which jurisdictions did these denials occur? Which state and local jurisdictions’ sanctuary policies have or could be reasonably construed to deny access to such detainees? Please respond to these questions within 30 days of submission or provide a reasonable explanation for any delay accompanied by an expected timeline of compliance. If you have any questions, please contact our staff at (202) 224-4224, (202) 224-4623, and (202) 224-6342. We fully respect the need to protect ongoing investigations and other sensitive law enforcement activities and are willing to work with you to ensure that your answers do not compromise any such interests. Sincerely, Ben SasseUnited States Senator John KennedyUnited States Senator Thom TillisUnited States Senator [1] The MS-13 Problem: Investigating Gang Membership, its Nexus to Illegal Immigration, and Federal Efforts to End the Threat: Hearing Before the Senate Comm. On the Judiciary, 115th Cong. (2017), https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/meetings/the-ms-13-problem-investigating-gang-membership-its-nexus-to-illegal-immigration-and-federal-efforts-to-end-the-threat (statement of Matthew T. Albence). [2] Id. [3] Id. [4] Id. (statement of Senator Tillis). [5] Id. (statement of Kenneth A. Blanco). [6] See, e.g., International Association of Chiefs of Police, Enforcing Immigration Law: The Role of State, Tribal and Local Law Enforcement 1 (2004), http://www.theiacp.org/portals/0/pdfs/publications/immigrationenforcementconf.pdf. [7] Press Release, U.S. Dep’t of the Treasury, Treasury Sanctions Latin American Criminal Organization (Oct. 11, 2012), https://www.treasury.gov/press-center/press-releases/Pages/tg1733.aspx.
07.11.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced that the August state work period will be delayed until the third week of the month. "Leader McConnell is right — Washington needs to take promises more seriously,” said Sasse. “For seven years, Republicans in the Senate promised to repeal Obamacare — and that’s exactly what we should do. The Senate should then be willing to work 6 days a week, 18 hours a day until we fulfill our promise of a replacement on healthcare. We need a replacement that protects the poorest and weakest among us, but also drives down costs for American families."
06.30.2017	This morning, Senator Sasse urged President Trump to adopt a two-step strategy of repealing and then replacing ObamaCare – if an agreement is not reached by the day members return from the July 4th state work period. Sasse suggests that Trump call on Republicans to repeal ObamaCare through reconciliation upon return, and then to spend August crafting a replacement bill for a vote on Labor Day. The full text of the Senator’s letter is found below: Mr. President:The Senate will next be in legislative session on Monday, July 10. If we don’t get to agreement on a combined, comprehensive ObamaCare repeal and replace plan by that day, I humbly suggest that you publicly call on the Congress to do two things: (1) to immediately repeal as much of ObamaCare as is possible under Congressional budget reconciliation rules, and then (2) to cancel the scheduled August state work period and instead to spend that month working through regular order, six days per week, writing a health reform package with a vote to be scheduled on Labor Day.You campaigned and won on the repeal of ObamaCare. So did every Republican senator. We should keep our word. Also like you, almost every Republican senator believes that health reform was needed before Democrats passed ObamaCare in 2010, and fundamental reform is still needed today. While we strongly disagree with Democrats that health coverage and premiums would be improved by more federal intrusion into health finance and delivery markets – and the nation’s tragic experience with ObamaCare’s broken promises supports our view – true reform was nonetheless needed then and is still needed now. On the current path, it looks like Republicans will either fail to pass any meaningful bill at all, or will instead pass a bill that attempts to prop up much of the crumbling ObamaCare structures. We can and must do better than either of these – both because the American people deserve better, and because we promised better. Therefore, I write to ask that you call on us to do two things: First, hold all Republicans accountable to our promise to repeal ObamaCare. With only one exception, every member of this Senate majority – moderate and conservative – has explicitly endorsed and/or already voted to repeal ObamaCare, most recently on December 3, 2015. And our newest colleagues, Senators Kennedy and Strange, who were not here at the time of that vote, have also campaigned on promises to repeal this disastrous law. We must keep our word.Therefore, on July 10, if we don’t have agreement on a combined repeal and replace plan, we should immediately vote again on H.R. 3762, the December 2015 ObamaCare repeal legislation that the Congress passed but President Obama vetoed. We should include a year-long implementation delay to give comfort to Americans currently on ObamaCare that a replacement plan will be enacted before expiration.Second, please call on Congress to cancel the August state work period to instead work around the clock exclusively on a health replacement plan on which we can vote this Labor Day. After we gave our word to repeal and replace ObamaCare’s monstrosity, we should not go back to our states during August as the American people struggle under fewer choices and skyrocketing costs. We should remain in DC at work.This two-step plan to keep our two promises – both repealing ObamaCare and replacing it with a system that provides affordable and portable health insurance – seems like a no-brainer to this gym rat. I’m hopeful that you will agree.Thank you for your consideration,Ben SasseUnited States Senator
06.27.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after the EPA, Department of Army, and Army Corps of Engineers announced a proposal to rescind the Obama-era WOTUS rule. “WOTUS was a nightmare dreamed up by Washington’s bureaucrats. This is a major victory for farmers and ranchers across Nebraska — the very people who know and care the most about our water. We should all be thankful for this step towards reining in the Obama administration’s out-of-control EPA.” Background: In February, Senator Sasse sent a letter to EPA Administrator Pruitt requesting withdrawal from WOTUS. In the letter, which can be found below, Senator Sasse urged Administrator Pruitt to: 1. Withdraw the Waters of the United States Rule and Restore State and Local Control Over Non-Federal Environmental Protection. 2. Put a Stop to EPA Freelancing in Implementing the Renewable Fuels Standard. 3. Improve Coordination with Federal Agencies.4. End Abusive “Sue and Settle” Practices. 5. Eliminate the EPA's “Clean Power Plan.”6. Reduce Needlessly Costly Regulations. 7. Protect the Privacy of Farmers and Ranchers.8. Collect Additional Information on Mining Rules. 9. Review Rule for the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan. 10. Decentralize EPA Enforcement Actions. Dear Administrator Pruitt:Congratulations on your confirmation to serve as the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).Please accept my invitation to visit the state of Nebraska. Our farmers and ranchers would welcome the opportunity to meet with you and share their unified work to protect their land and the environment. In your testimony before the Senate Environment and Public Works committee, you referenced three principles that you believed would help the EPA promote a healthier environment, a stability in managing our natural resources, and a stronger economy: the rule of law, cooperative federalism, and public participation. I agree with your assessment. Sadly, the EPA has not been marked by these principles, but has instead acted in a manner that has left many Americans, especially Nebraskans, concerned that their voice is not heard at the EPA. Furthermore, the EPA’s overreaching regulatory hand has shaken the confidence of state governments and citizens in cooperative federalism and the rule of law. I am hopeful that as you begin your service at the EPA, you can again make the EPA an institution that respects the Constitution by recognizing that the legislative branch – not the executive branch – writes the laws. As you prioritize the workload of the EPA, I would like to bring to your attention several items that are important to Nebraskans and humbly request that you prioritize these areas in your first 100-days as Administrator. Withdraw the Waters of the United States Rule and Restore State and Local Control Over Non-Federal Environmental Protection: Nebraska is a rural state where one-in-four jobs is tied to agriculture.I have heard from many Nebraskans who believe that the EPA has been on a single-minded quest to extend federal power and expand federal jurisdiction through the Clean Water Act so that joint EPA and Army Corps of Engineers regulatory authority would cover all waters where Congress left the authority to the States. Understanding that litigation on this issue is ongoing, I request that the EPA enforce the law and seek Congressional input if the agency encounters an ambiguity in the law instead of unilaterally rewriting the law. Please withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule forthwith and consider revisions, with input from the states, that would protect the cooperative federalism envisioned in the Clean Water Act as well as define the term “navigable waters” in a manner that does not go beyond the statute. I am deeply skeptical of approaches that assume that textual ambiguity in a statute confers broad discretionary power to any federal agency. Please also strike any memoranda of understanding that may hinder the withdrawal of the WOTUS rule. Put a Stop to EPA Freelancing in Implementing the Renewable Fuels Standard:The passage of the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) in 2007 specified the annual volume targets of biofuels to be blended with gasoline. Unfortunately, the EPA has previously proposed rules that unilaterally rewrote the annual volume limits set by Congress. Please review the text of federal law as written by Congress, release annual volume limits in a timely manner, and judiciously consider the general waiver authority provided in statute. Regulatory impediments, such as constraints on sales and the lack of a Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) waiver for blends above E-10 should not interfere with consumer-based marketplace decisions. The EPA has previously argued that the Clean Air Act precludes the granting of a RVP waiver to blends over E-10 because it would cause vehicles and engines to exceed their emission standards in use. Please review the federal law related to any applicable RVP waiver and determine if you agree that statutory changes are necessary to authorize the EPA to provide a waiver for blends above E-10. Please specify the necessary changes that Congress should examine. In 2010, EPA established a process for companies to petition EPA to allow new fuels to qualify as a renewable fuel under the RFS program. These petitions are known as “pathway petitions.” Cellulosic biofuel companies have waited on average more than 30-months and advanced biofuel companies have waited on average more than two-years for the EPA to approve their pathway petitions. Please review the regulatory approval process and make appropriate changes so that pathway petitions are approved in an expedited manner consistent with the statute. If there are changes to federal law that would expedite the approval of these applications, please advise me of those changes. Improve Coordination with Federal Agencies: Interagency memoranda of understanding (MOUs) are often created to encourage effective coordination and cooperative working relationships. Please identify all existing MOUs, especially those that involve the United States Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, and the Fish and Wildlife Service to determine effective interagency coordination. Please immediately suspend all MOUs designed to expand EPA authority. Please review any MOUs or other practices, guidance, or other documents that create duplicative reporting and enforcement authorities. Please freeze or reevaluate any attempts to further federalize state implementation plans or delegation agreements. End Abusive “Sue and Settle” Practices: Nebraskan farmers and ranchers have consistently and overwhelmingly expressed concern about the use of settlement agreements or consent decrees whereby the EPA has invited lawsuits from third parties, then committed itself to perform what would otherwise be discretionary acts in agreements convened pursuant to the lawsuits. This practice, known as “sue and settle,” perverts the legal structure under which the agency operates and ignores federal law that otherwise requires the use of notice and comment rulemaking. Please identify any litigation where consent decrees or settlement agreements are pending and withdraw them for further review. Eliminate the “Clean Power Plan”: The EPA has proposed new rules on carbon-dioxide emissions, commonly referred to as the Clean Power Plan. These transformative rules place enormous economic burdens on electric generating utilities, especially for a 100-percent public power state like Nebraska. Please rescind these extra-legal Clean Power Plan rules. Reduce Needlessly Costly Regulations: Industry has often made attempts to comply with a regulation through comprehensive planning and significant investments in obtaining the technology available for compliance only to have those investments stranded with regulations and aggressive deadlines that do not allow for reasonable compliance. Please undertake a comprehensive review of the many regulations EPA has promulgated that overlap and have compounding effects on industries where significant investments have been made to reach compliance on existing regulations. Protect the Privacy of Farmers and Ranchers:In 2013, EPA responded to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request by releasing sensitive, private and personal information relating to more than 100,000 farmers and ranchers, including individuals from Nebraska. In a unanimous ruling, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals noted that EPA “abused its discretion in deciding that the information at issue was not exempt from mandatory disclosure under Exemption 6 of FOIA.” Exemption 6 relates to “information involving matters of personal privacy (protected under the Privacy Act or contains sensitive personally identifiable information).” Please conduct a comprehensive and immediate review of all EPA FOIA practices so that the agency does not release or otherwise distribute the private information of my constituents in violations of FOIA exemptions. Collect Additional Information on Mining Rules: In January 2015, EPA issued a proposed rule to revise 40 C.F.R. Part 192 - Health and Environmental Protection Standards for Uranium and Thorium Mill Tailings and Uranium In-Situ Leaching Processing Facilities. This rule would require uranium recovery operators to conduct up to 30-years of groundwater monitoring following uranium production. In January 2017 EPA released a re-proposed rule for a 180-day comment period. As you evaluate the necessity for this rule, please consider collecting additional data on the costs and benefits before moving forward with a final rule. Review Rule for the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan: On January 18, 2017 EPA issued a proposed rule to revise portions of the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) applicable to the Gerald Gentlemen Station, owned and operated by the Nebraska Public Power District. Given that this proposed rule was issued two-days before Inauguration Day, please review the rationale for revising the FIP. Decentralize EPA Enforcement Actions: The Clean Water Act is landmark legislation from which EPA derives substantial authority. When Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972, it affirmed that it is Congressional policy to “recognize, preserve, and protect the primary responsibilities and rights of States to prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution, to plan the development and use…of land and water resources, and to consult with the Administrator in the exercise of his authority under this Act.” This policy, known as cooperative federalism, is a key principle that is essential to the protection of our environment and enforcement of federal environmental law and affirms that states have the primary responsibility to protect their respective environments. Unfortunately, the EPA’s Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) has often engaged in aggressive criminal and civil investigation and enforcement without consultation or cooperation with the states. Please evaluate how EPA enforcement and inspection efforts are structured and review ways to decentralize any overly aggressive efforts from headquarters and develop a more collaborative effort with states and regional offices. I look forward to working with you to increase transparency and accountability in the EPA’s regulatory process. Thank you again for your willingness to serve as Administrator of the EPA and congratulations on your confirmation. Sincerely,Ben Sasse
06.07.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the nomination of Christopher Wray as the new FBI director. "Chris Wray is tough, qualified, and principled. I look forward to sitting down with him to discuss both his commitment to our justice system and his vision for restoring public trust."
05.17.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding Robert Mueller. "Robert Mueller is an exceptional public servant -- from his days as a decorated Marine, through his years as a federal prosecutor, to his time as head of the criminal division and then as Acting Deputy Attorney General, and then onto his twelve years of principled leadership as the Director of the FBI. His record, character, and trustworthiness have been lauded for decades by Republicans and Democrats alike."
05.16.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the cyber attack against Disney which has held "Pirates of the Caribbean" ransom. "In our digital economy, neither the private nor public sectors are sufficiently fortified against cyber attacks. Digital hostage taking by these modern pirates will grow more frequent and the stakes will escalate. Government and industry should be bringing urgency to the table but few in Washington are paying attention."
05.12.2017	“Cybersecurity isn’t a hypothetical problem – today shows it can be life or death.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the ongoing ransomware attacks in Europe and Asia. “This is big: around the world, doctors and nurses are scrambling to treat patients without their digital records or prescription dosages, ambulances are being rerouted, and millions of people’s data is potentially exposed. Cybersecurity isn’t a hypothetical problem – today shows it can be life or death. We’ll likely look back at this as a watershed moment.”
05.10.2017	"Unfortunately, your confirmation process has failed to reassure us that you understand the North American Free Trade Agreement’s (NAFTA) positive economic benefits to our respective States and the nation as a whole." Washington, D.C. - Tonight, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and John McCain (R-AZ) wrote to Robert Lighthizer, announcing their intent to oppose his nomination to be United States Trade Representative (USTR). The full text of the letter is available below. Dear Mr. Lighthizer, We write to explain our intent to oppose your nomination to be United States Trade Representative (USTR). Unfortunately, your confirmation process has failed to reassure us that you understand the North American Free Trade Agreement’s (NAFTA) positive economic benefits to our respective States and the nation as a whole. We fear that you do not have an appreciation for the millions of jobs created by this free trade deal, and that you would not champion agriculture during your time as USTR. Furthermore, we worry that you would not negotiate trade deals that would protect the American consumer and expand economic growth. These concerns, along with the need for Congress to grant you a waiver to serve in the Trump Administration in a must-pass omnibus spending bill is troubling. Beyond your vocal advocacy for protectionist shifts in our trade policies, the Administration’s ongoing, incoherent, and inconsistent trade message has compounded our concern. This is especially troubling because confirming a USTR grants the Administration additional legal authority to negotiate trade deals that Congress must consider under “fast track” procedures. Given these circumstances, granting the Trump Administration additional legal powers through your confirmation without understanding how you or the Administration intend to use those powers would be irresponsible. A constant theme throughout your confirmation process has been your failure to grasp the importance of protecting agriculture in trade negotiations. Your meeting with one of us (Senator Sasse) did nothing to disabuse of us this notion. America needs a USTR who will effectively defend agriculture during trade negotiations and fight to expand agricultural export markets, not let America’s farmers and ranchers become collateral damage in a trade war. You also have made your skepticism of NAFTA well known, which we find to be alarming. America deserves a USTR who will renegotiate NAFTA in order to build on its successes, not as a pretext for unraveling it. Mexico and Canada are two of our largest export markets and the free movement of goods is essential to the growth of our national economy. For example, Mexico is Arizona’s number one trading partner, accounting for 40 percent of the State’s exports to foreign markets. This is due to the free trade policies in NAFTA that create fewer trade barriers with Canada and Mexico, which makes it easier for Americans to make a living and provide for their families. Further, according to the Nebraska Farm Bureau, a withdraw from NAFTA could cost Nebraska farmers and ranchers more than $2.6 billion per year in agricultural exports. Increasing trade barriers with Canada and Mexico, and risking a trade war, only hurts American families and small businesses. The Trump Administration’s incoherent and inconsistent trade posture to date makes it impossible for us to overlook our concerns with your nomination. On April 29, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order that required the Secretary of Commerce and the USTR, in consultation with several federal agencies, to “conduct comprehensive performance reviews” of all of the United States’ free trade agreements and “renegotiate or terminate” policies that the Administration believes are harmful to the United States. This executive order was signed only days after the release of troubling reports of the Trump Administration’s preparations to withdraw from NAFTA. Reports that the Administration is even considering withdrawal from NAFTA is contrary to previous statements from key Administration officials - including Dr. Peter Navarro,[1] Secretary Wilbur Ross, [2] and Secretary Steve Mnuchin,[3] - that NAFTA would only be up for re-negotiation, not withdrawal. These disjointed positions are causing great uncertainty over the Administration’s trade objectives. Moreover, this incoherent and protectionist message on trade has caused serious uncertainty for export markets, and has harmed our valuable relationships with Canada and Mexico. The Administration’s actions may also encourage our trading partners to move their markets elsewhere, especially if they believe that future negotiations will hurt their interests. For example, Mexican officials have cited the possible re-negotiation of NAFTA as a major reason why they are currently pursuing actions to import less corn from the U.S. and more from other nations, including Argentina and Brazil. Other countries may follow Mexico’s suit. For example, China continues to advance the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a regional multilateral trade agreement in the Pacific that includes our current FTA partners, South Korea and Australia, as well as Japan, a potential FTA partner. According to the Congressional Research Service, should the RCEP move forward in its current form, the “United States would face higher tariffs in RCEP markets”[4] and thus many of our trading partners could run to RCEP markets under trade rules set by China. Confirming your nomination would allow the Trump Administration to negotiate “fast track” trade agreements, a power that Congress granted the executive branch in the 2015 reauthorization of TPA. For us to consider the complete implications of confirming you, the Administration would need to provide Congress with clear trade objectives with respect to: 1) the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), as well as a timeline for upcoming negotiations; 2) other free trade agreements (FTA); and 3) future FTAs, including which countries the Administration intends to pursue trade negotiations and timelines on those intended negotiations. We hope the future actions and the Administration’s future actions will prove us wrong. The economic well-being of consumers, small businesses, farmers, and ranchers across our country depend upon it.Sincerely, U.S. Senator Ben SasseU.S. Senator John McCain [1] Regarding NAFTA negotiations, Dr. Navarro indicated that the Administration looked forward to good negotiations with Canada and Mexico. http://video.foxbusiness.com/v/5380277290001/?#sp=show-clips [2] Secretary Ross has previously stated that NAFTA “needs an update.” http://www.cnbc.com/2017/03/10/commerce-sec-wilbur-ross-aims-to-start-formal-nafta-renegotiation-process-in-the-next-few-weeks.html [3] During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Mnuchin responded to a question from Sen. Carper regarding NAFTA renegotiation. Mr. Mnuchin responded, “I’m optimistic that we can renegotiate that deal that’s both advantageous to us and advantageous to Mexico, that’s [sic] it’s a win-win for both countries.” http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1701/19/cnr.05.html[4] U.S. Congressional Research Service, The United States Withdraws from the TPP, Report IN10646, February 13, 2017.
05.09.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the firing of FBI Director James Comey. "Regardless of how you think Director Comey handled the unprecedented complexities of the 2016 election cycle, the timing of this firing is very troubling. Jim Comey is an honorable public servant, and in the midst of a crisis of public trust that goes well beyond who you voted for in the presidential election, the loss of an honorable public servant is a loss for the nation. As the chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Oversight Subcommittee, I have reached out to the Deputy Attorney General for clarity on his rationale for recommending this action."
05.03.2017	Sasse: "A free and independent press is critical to our democracy and Julian Assange is an enemy of that democracy." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse questioned FBI Director James Comey about Congress’ cybersecurity, Russia’s influence operations, and WikiLeaks' role as an independent and hostile intelligence agency. "Let’s get this straight: a free and independent press is critical to our democracy and Julian Assange is an enemy of that democracy," said Sasse afterward. "If Assange was truly the free speech champion he claims to be, he wouldn’t be collaborating with a Russian thugocracy that murders journalists." A transcript of the Senator’s questioning is found below: SASSE: Given the expertise and cyber intelligence and investigations, how likely do you think it is that the Senate IT systems have been targeted by foreign intelligence services? COMEY: I would estimate it's a certainty. SASSE: Inside the IC, who would talk about that problem and who at the Senate would they inform? COMEY: Well, I don't want to talk about particular matters, but it often is the FBI alerting a U.S. Government institution or private sector. DHS might come across it or other parts of the intelligence community, especially NSA. SASSE: When we talk about things like cyber investigations so often on cable TV it becomes a shirts and skins exercise. So, without asking you to comment about anything that’s retrospective about 2016, do you think it’s likely that in 2018 and beyond you’re going to see more targeting of public discourse and elections? COMEY: I do. I think one of the lessons that the Russians may have drawn from this is that this works and so as I said a month or so ago, I expect to see them back in 2018, especially in 2020. SASSE: You regularly testify and correct me if I've misheard you, but I think you've regularly testified that you don't think the Bureau is short of resources. You don't come before us and make big increased appropriations requests, and yet those of us who are very concerned about cyber look at the U.S. Government at large and think we are not at all prepared for the future. Can you tell us what the FBI is doing to prepare for the 2018 and 2020 circumstance for the vision? COMEY: Without giving too much detail, we have an enormous part of the FBI in the counterintelligence division that focuses on just that threat in making sure that we do everything we can to understand how the bad guys might come at us and as I talked about earlier to equip the civilian agencies for hardening the infrastructure with all of the information we have about how they're going to come at us. SASSE: And if you had international security domain increased resources, how would you spend another marginal dollar beyond what you would expect to receive now? COMEY: I would probably have a tie between investing more and upgrading our systems to make sure we're keeping pace with the bar of excellence and probably to hire additional cyber agents and analysts. SASSE: And if you had your druthers, what kind of increased funding request would you make? COMEY: I wouldn't make any sitting here. SASSE: I'd like to talk a little bit about WikiLeaks. In January, the FBI contributed to an IC assessment that concluded that WikiLeaks was a known outlet for foreign propaganda. Do you stand by that assessment? COMEY: Yes.SASSE: Do you believe that WikiLeaks has released sensitive and classified information? COMEY: Yes. SASSE: Do you believe any of WikiLeaks disclosures have endangered American lives and/or put at risk American interests? COMEY: I believe both have been the result of some of their releases.SASSE: Can you help me understand why Julian Assange has not been charged with a crime? COMEY: Well, I don't want to comment on the particular case because I don't want to confirm whether or not there are charges pending. He hasn't been apprehended because he is inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London. SASSE: I sent a letter to the Attorney General a number of weeks ago asking questions about the status of the investigation and it seemed pretty clear, though individuals were polite and kind and responsive to our requests, it seemed that across the I.C. there wasn't much deliberation about Wikileaks and about Julian Assange and this question. Is the FBI participating in any interagency dialogue about whether or not Assange has committed crimes? COMEY: I don't know where you got that impression, but WikiLeaks is an important focus of our attention. SASSE: I intentionally left almost half of my time for you to sort of wax broadly for a minute. There is room for reasonable people to disagree about at what point an allegedly journalistic organization crosses a line to become a tool for foreign intelligence. There are Americans, well-meaning thoughtful people, who think WikiLeaks might be a journalistic outfit. Can you explain why that is not your view? COMEY: I want to be careful I don't prejudice any future proceeding. It's an important question because all of us care deeply about the First Amendment and the importance of a free press to get our work and publish it. To my mind it crosses a line when it moves from being about trying to educate a public and instead it becomes intelligence porn, frankly, just pushing out information about sources and methods without regard to interest, without regard to the First Amendment values that normally underlie press reporting and simply becomes a conduit for the Russian intelligence services or some other adversary of the United States just to push out to damage the United States. And I realize reasonable people, as you said, struggle to draw a line and but surely there is conduct so far to the side of that line that there's nothing that smells journalist about some of this conduct. SASSE: So, if you could map that continuum, there are clearly members of the IC that have at different points in the past leaked classified information. That is an illegal act, correct? COMEY: Correct. SASSE: When American journalists court and solicit that information, have they violated any law by asking people in the IC to leak information that is potentially classified? COMEY: That conduct is not treated by the U.S. Government as criminal conduct. I've been asked in other contexts, isn't it true that the espionage statute has no carve out for journalists, that's true, but in my life time, the Department of Justice’s has been news gathering and legitimate news covering is not covered and it will not be investigated or prosecuted as a criminal act. That's how it's thought of. SASSE: So, an investigative reporter taking advantage of and celebrating the liberties we have under the First Amendment at the Washington Post or at the Omaha World Herald or at the Lincoln Journal Star, the New York Times, trying to talk to people in the IC and get the maximum amount of information they possibly can out of them to inform the public, it is not the burden of an American journalist to discern whether or not the member of the IC is leaking information that might be classified. The journalist can legitimately seek information and it's not their job to police it. The member of the US IC that leaks classified information has broken the law. COMEY: The obligation rests on those people who are in the government in possession of intelligence and classified information. It's not the journalist's burden. SASSE: Okay. COMEY: Our focus is and should be on the leakers and not those that are obtaining it as a part of legitimate news gathering. SASSE: So, I want to hear this part one more time and I know the chairman has indulged me, and I'm at and past time. The journalist seeking this information differs from Assange and WikiLeaks how? COMEY: In that there's at least a portion, and people can argue that maybe there is conduct WikiLeaks has engaged in the past that's closer to regular news gathering, but in my view a huge portion of WikiLeaks' activities has nothing to do with legitimate news gathering, informing the public, commenting on important public controversies, but is simply about releasing classified information to damage the United States of America. People sometimes get cynical about journalists - American journalists do not do that. They will almost always call us before they publish classified information and say, is there anything about this that would put lives in danger? That’s going to jeopardize government people, military people, or innocent civilians anywhere in the world? And then work with us to accomplish their important First Amendment goals while safeguarding those interests. This activity I am talking about, WikiLeaks, involves no such considerations whatsoever. It's what I said - intelligence porn - just push it out in order to damage. SASSE: Thank you.
04.26.2017	"A huge part of this hearing was about trying to demonize the Federalist Society, an organization that if you really have a problem with any of those three principles, your oath of office is not an oath that you took without mental reservation." Today, at a Judiciary Committee hearing on the nomination of Judge Amul Thapar — currently a district court judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky — to be a circuit judge on the 6th Circuit of Court of Appeals, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse responded forcefully to attempts to demonize the Federalist Society for its belief in the Constitution’s separation of powers. Partial transcript below: SASSE: I would love to just ask you some questions that really should be stunningly basic but our institution is not serious enough in in the Senate right now. Can you tell me, is it a radical idea to say that the state exists to preserve freedom?THAPAR: No.SASSE: Is it a radical idea that the separation of governmental powers is central to our Constitution?THAPAR: No, it was the wisdom of our Founders.SASSE: And is it a radical idea to say that “emphatically the province and the duty of the judiciary to say what the law is, not what it should be?”THAPAR: No, I hope that's exactly our duty because that's what I try to do.SASSE: I serve in an office where the people can fire me. You are being considered for an office for the people wouldn't be able to fire you. So if you thought that you were secretly a philosopher king who should be wiser than all of the 320 million Americans and decide the answer, would that fit with the American Founders’ view of government?THAPAR: Absolutely not.SASSE: The reason you would have lifetime tenure in your next calling and as you do as a judge now is precisely because you're not accountable to the people in the same way that we on this dais are to be accountable to the people. I'd like to read to you in combination the three sentences that I was just asking you about because bizarrely about a third of this hearing has been preoccupied with the idea that it is somehow radical to believe in the American Constitution.The Federalist Society's founding mission statement — I was at another meeting but I overheard some of the questioning on TV so I ran back; again I apologize for standing between you and lunch — but the Federalist Society is founded on the principles that the state exists to preserve freedom, that the separation of governmental powers is central to our Constitution, and that is emphatically the province and the duty of the judiciary say what the law is, not what it should be. The Federalist Society is a debating society of law students and lawyers. It's about the Constitution. We in this body have taken an oath to the Constitution.If there is any senator of the 100 in this body that disagrees with any of the three, please resign today. This was nonsense. A huge part of this hearing was about trying to demonize the Federalist Society, an organization that if you really have a problem with any of those three principles, your oath of office is not an oath that you took without mental reservation.So I think that the questioning that you been subjected to today was about 50/60/75% in good faith and about 25% trying to demonize an organization that stands for something that is aligned with the oath of office that the hundred of us have taken. Thank you for your answers today - appreciate the time you've submitted to the committee. In American politics, is it a radical idea to say that the state exists to preserve freedom? So what is so radical about @FedSoc? pic.twitter.com/1WtrJiVhXc — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) April 26, 2017
04.26.2017	"Scrapping NAFTA would be a disastrously bad idea." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding reports that the Trump Administration is preparing to withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). "Scrapping NAFTA would be a disastrously bad idea. It would hurt American families at the check-out, and it would cripple American producers in the field and the office. Yes, there are places where our agreements could be modernized but here's the bottom line: trade lowers prices for American consumers and it expands markets for American goods. Risking trade wars is reckless, not wise."
04.25.2017	Sasse outlines trade priorities, invites Secretary to Nebraska Today, shortly after Sonny Perdue was sworn in as the U.S. Agriculture Secretary, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse invited the new secretary to Nebraska and urged him to "be a champion for free trade" inside the administration. "As you assume your new position in the Administration, I call on you to be a champion for free trade," wrote Sasse. "Your leadership on these important issues is vital now more than ever because the Administration has provided little certainty that they understand the importance of free trade policy and its many benefits for America’s farmers, ranchers, and small businesses. Specifically, I call on you to prioritize the following critical areas: 1) Advocate for free trade policies in any consideration of the North American Free Trade Agreement; 2) Advocate for U.S. leadership in the Pacific markets post Trans-Pacific Partnership; 3) Prioritize bilateral trade deals; and 4) Expand market access and make America more competitive." Earlier this year, Sasse convened a meeting between Perdue and Nebraska agriculture leaders, including Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson, Nebraska Cattlemen President Troy Stowater, and Nebraska Sugarbeet Growers President Kendall Busch. The full text of today's letter is found below.Dear Secretary Perdue:Congratulations on your confirmation to serve as the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). I supported your nomination in substantial part because of your commitment to me to advocate for the expansion of agricultural export markets and defend free trade policy. As you assume your new position in the Administration, I call on you to be a champion for free trade. Your leadership on these important issues is vital now more than ever because the Administration has provided little certainty that they understand the importance of free trade policy and its many benefits for America’s farmers, ranchers, and small businesses. Specifically, I call on you to prioritize the following critical areas: 1) Advocate for free trade policies in any consideration of the North American Free Trade Agreement; 2) Advocate for U.S. leadership in the Pacific markets post Trans-Pacific Partnership; 3) Prioritize bilateral trade deals; and 4) Expand market access and make America more competitive. 1. Advocate for Free Trade Policies in Any Consideration of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): Any negotiations regarding NAFTA should aim to improve and preserve the agreement and highlight the historic value of Canada and Mexico as our trading partners for American agriculture.2. Advocate for U.S. Leadership in the Pacific Markets Post Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): Following the Administration’s January 2017 TPP withdrawal, U.S. leadership in the Pacific markets is vital to advancing U.S. interests in the region.3. Prioritize Bilateral Trade Deals: The Administration should prioritize immediate trade negotiations (bilateral or multilateral) with key trading partners and allies. This not only includes Japan and the United Kingdom, but other TPP signatories.4. Expand Market Access and Make America More Competitive: Because no one benefits from a trade war and unfair trade practices, it is imperative to seek the continual breakdown of trade barriers so that the free movement of goods can take place.I request that you periodically update me on your efforts to advocate for free trade policies in the Administration as well as your efforts to expand American agricultural exports abroad. Finally, please accept my invitation to visit the state of Nebraska. Our farmers and ranchers would welcome the opportunity to meet with you and share the unique opportunities and challenges that they face as they make Nebraska the breadbasket of the world. I look forward to working with you as we work together to build trade networks around the globe and support America’s agriculture community as they feed a growing world. I pledge to fully support you in these efforts to strongly and tenaciously advocate for American agriculture and the expansion of our exports markets. Thank you again for your willingness to serve as Secretary of Agriculture and congratulations on your confirmation. Sincerely, Ben Sasse
04.12.2017	"Without NATO, the Soviet Union would be quarterbacking half of Europe today and Putin knows it." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump departed from his previous rhetoric and reaffirmed the United States' commitment to NATO."Without NATO, the Soviet Union would be quarterbacking half of Europe today and Putin knows it. NATO is the most successful military alliance in human history. This was the right decision."
04.07.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. “Today Judge Gorsuch takes his black robe to the Supreme Court and that’s an important civics lesson for our kids. He’s a judge’s judge who knows that his job isn’t to wear a red or blue jersey under that black robe and re-write laws. His duty is to faithfully uphold the Constitution. That’s good for Nebraskans, good for the rule of law, and good for the next generation of Americans.” Good news for the rule of law: Today, Judge Gorsuch takes his black robe to #SCOTUS. #Confirmed https://t.co/MXDqk58mYC pic.twitter.com/dxvubfNyHG — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) April 7, 2017
04.06.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement on tonight’s military strikes in Syria: "After Syrian moms and dads buried their children, American troops met injustice with strength. The use of chemical weapons cannot become normal - civilized people cannot grow indifferent to such suffering. After sending a clear message tonight, the President should propose to Congress a comprehensive strategy to protect American interests from a humanitarian crisis that threatens to destabilize our regional allies and create vacuums for jihadi sanctuaries."
03.30.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the Senate passed a resolution to roll back an Obama Administration rule that forces states to fund abortion providers though the taxpayer-funded Title X program. The legislation now heads to the President. “Being pro-life means having compassion for both moms and babies and that’s what this legislation is about. Nebraskans want to fund life-affirming women’s health providers without sending taxpayer dollars to abortion businesses. I’m glad that this is one step closer to becoming law and encourage the President to sign this pro-life legislation immediately.” The legislation would not reduce Title X funds but instead allows states to redirect funds to women’s health providers and community health centers that do not perform abortions. Let's fund life-affirming women’s health providers without sending taxpayer dollars to abortion businesses. https://t.co/cRLgWFNDRA pic.twitter.com/SmcLhJLEYQ — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) March 30, 2017
03.28.2017	"The Kremlin isn't attempting an influence campaign to make Americans believe that the sky is green or the grass is blue. . . The Kremlin wants us to believe that our society is as corrupt as the thugocracy that Putin and his cronies are trying to advance." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, discussed Moscow's influence operation aimed at undermining confidence in self-government here and across the West. Sasse also read into the record an op-ed published in The Wall Street Journal written by former Congressman Mike Rogers, the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence from 2011 to 2015. Chairman Rogers' op-ed is available here. Excerpts of the Senator's remarks are found below. I rise to comment briefly on Russian interference in the electoral processes of this country, and across the West, and in the governance of many of Russia's own neighbors. We are in the middle of the civilization-warping crisis of public trust in this country. This isn't about the last two months. This isn't just about the last presidential election. This is fundamentally about the last few decades of declining public trust in a broad range of our institutions -- the press, political parties, executive branch agencies, the congress, and beyond. Russia is not unaware of our own distrust of each other. Russia is not unaware of our own increasing self-doubt about our shared values. Russia is today very self-consciously working to further erode confidence in our self-government by pulling at the threads of our public and civic life. Moscow's influence campaigns don't start by creating wholly new problems out of thin air, but rather by exploiting fissures that already exist in our civilization. The simplest way for Russia to try to weaken us is by trying to exploit the places where we are already weak and the places where we are already distrustful -- the places where we are failing to pass along a shared understanding of American values to the next generation. The sad state of modern politics and the explosion of digital media are proving to be ripe targets for many of our own internal doubts and our own discord. We, all of us, Republicans and Democrats, the legislature, and the executive branch, are ill-prepared for the challenges that are already on our doorstep, let alone what comes next with the acceleration of these kinds of technologies. Today, in The Wall Street Journal, we in this body were rebuked, I think rightly rebuked and rebuked in a bipartisan way by former Congressman Mike Rogers. Chairman Rogers, a Republican, served as the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee from 2011 to 2015, and I'm going to read his op-ed rebuke into the record today, but I would humbly ask that all 100 members of this body calmly and self-critically consider carefully Chairman Rogers' argument. For his argument is not fundamentally against Republicans alone, it is not against Democrats alone. He's offering double-barreled criticism of all of us in the congress, criticism of both parties. Why of both parties? Because Russia's influence campaign is a really big deal. Are we Republicans listening? And also because our response to Russia's influence campaign is not primarily about who you supported last November in the presidential election. Listening to the Democrats, it's sometimes hard to understand if that side of the aisle remembers that basic fact about what Russia's influence campaign was up to. Russia's goals in our most recent election were not initially about one candidate versus another candidate. We need to underscore this. There are particulars that those of us who spend time reading classified intelligence know we can't discuss in this unclassified setting, but the big, broad point is simple and needs to be shouted, and that is that Putin's fundamental goals are about undermining NATO. Putin's fundamental goals are about making us doubt our own values - the freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, the right of protest or redress of grievances. The Kremlin isn't attempting an influence campaign to make Americans believe that the sky is green or the grass is blue. He's trying to undertake an influence campaign to make us doubt our own First Amendment values. The Kremlin wants us to believe that our society is as corrupt as the thugocracy that Putin and his cronies are trying to advance. That isn't true but, if you listen to us in this body, we do regularly do very little to restore the kind of public trust that Putin is actively trying to undermine. So I would ask that each member of this body would humbly and carefully consider Chairman Rogers' rebuke to the congress this morning. Again from The Wall Street Journal, Chairman Rogers. . . .
03.27.2017	Joint resolution of disapproval blocks Obama administration’s teacher preparation regulation President Trump today signed a resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act that blocks a flawed Obama administration regulation related to teacher preparation programs. Introduced in the House by Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), chairman of the Higher Education and Workforce Development Subcommittee, and championed by Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) in the Senate, H. J. Res. 58 is one of two resolutions passed by Congress and signed by the president to rein in the federal role and help maintain state and local control over education.Members issued the following statements in response to the president’s action:“After eight years of regulatory overreach, I am proud to join President Trump and Chairwoman Foxx to reverse President Obama’s misguided approach to how teachers are prepared for the classroom,” Rep. Guthrie said. “Now signed into law, my resolution will make it easier for prospective teachers to get into the classroom and will give Congress the opportunity to review teacher preparation programs through the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.”“With this resolution, Congress and the president are sending a strong signal that the days of federal overreach in education are over,” Education and the Workforce Committee Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) said. “This resolution is one way we are keeping our promise to leave important education decisions to the state and local education leaders who know best what their students and teachers need to succeed in the classroom. Great teachers can help ensure every child receives an excellent education. Under unified Republican leadership, we will continue working to ensure local leaders have the flexibility they need to prepare their teachers for success as we advance bold solutions to strengthen higher education.” "Chalk up a win for kids and common-sense,” Sen. Sasse said. “Everyone in Washington wants good teachers for our kids but that doesn’t give them a license to micromanage thousands of teacher training programs. Today we put student-focused innovation ahead of top-down regulation."“This regulation would have forced teacher evaluations on states, something Congress specifically prohibited in the bill fixing No Child Left Behind that got 85 votes in the Senate,” Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) said. “I’m glad President Trump has signed this resolution that makes clear that states, and not a distant department in Washington, have the responsibility for saying whether a teacher is prepared for the classroom.”BACKGROUND: Finalized in October 2016, the teacher preparation rule significantly expanded the federal government’s involvement in teacher preparation and could have led to fewer teachers serving some of our nation’s most vulnerable children. Under the Congressional Review Act, Congress may pass a resolution of disapproval to prevent, with the full force of the law, a federal agency from implementing a rule or issuing a substantially similar rule without congressional authorization. The resolution blocks the teacher preparation rule from taking effect and prevents future administrations from promulgating a similar rule.To read the teacher preparation resolution, click here.For more information on both resolutions, click here.
03.26.2017	"Putin’s thugocracy is on full display." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding events in Russia. "Putin’s thugocracy is on full display. The United States government cannot be silent about Russia’s crackdown on peaceful protesters. Free speech is what we’re all about and Americans expect our leaders to call out thugs who trample the basic human rights of speech, press, assembly, and protest."
03.20.2017	Sasse opening statement on Gorsuch confirmation U.S. Senator Ben Sasse offered the following opening statement on the first day of Judge Neil Gorsuch's confirmation hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Senator's opening statement, as prepared for delivery, is found below: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a special moment in the life of our republic. We have an opportunity to stand back from more than 200 years of history, to evaluate our civic health, and to recommit ourselves to a government that is intentionally limited – to powers that are intentionally distinguished and divided. That’s what these next few weeks are about. Arguably the most important thing we will do in the Senate this year is confirm the next Supreme Court justice. I want to focus my opening remarks around a simple image: a judge’s black robe. It’s a strange thing that judges wear robes. But instead of looking past this strange convention, let’s look right at it. For it isn’t just some relic from the past. It isn’t just something people wore long ago in a forgotten era of formality, like a powdered wig. So why do the robes – often unfashionable and unflattering – persist? The reasons were summed up better than I could put it by one sitting judge. He said: “[D]onning a robe doesn’t make me any smarter. But the robe does mean something – and not just that I can hide coffee stains on my shirt. It serves as a reminder of what’s expected of us – what Burke called the ‘cold neutrality of an impartial judge.’ It serves, too, as a reminder of the relatively modest station we’re meant to occupy in a democratic society. In other places, judges wear scarlet.... Here, we’re told to buy our own plain black robes – and I can attest the standard choir outfit at the local uniform supply store is a good deal. Ours is a judiciary of honest black polyester.” The author of these insightful words was Judge Neil Gorsuch. And that statement is an excellent lens through which to frame the work of this Committee this week – and indeed the work of the Supreme Court for the next century and beyond. I want to make three simple, overlapping points about the judge’s black robe: One, it changes the way our eyes see the Court; Two, it reiterates the duty – the calling – of a judge to the judge; and Three, it gives us an opportunity to teach our kids about our – their – Constitution, our fundamental law, the enduring paper that defines what our government can and cannot do. *** First, how it changes the way we look at the Court. When you look at all nine justices sitting together in their robes, they blend in with one another. It can be hard to tell them apart if you squint. And it thus calls attention to the office rather than the person. That’s because when a judge puts on his or her robe, it forces their personalities into the background so that we focus instead on the important-but-modest job they do – which is to drill down on the facts and the law. Facts are objective; they don’t change based on your personality. They are evaluated against written, objective law – not against what the judge wishes the law said. Some have famously said that empathy is an essential ingredient for arriving at just decisions. This belief is well-meant but woefully misguided. Standing before the court, your gender, your skin, and your bank account cannot decide your fate. Nor should your judges’ race, class, or gender decide your fate. Empathy is not the role of a Supreme Court Justice. It is our job as legislators – men and women who are hired and fired by the American people – to empathize, to identify with people's hopes and struggles. The judge must instead faithfully and dispassionately apply the law to the facts of the case. The judge’s robe is there to remind both the judges and us of that – that if the facts are on our side, it shouldn’t matter what judge we sit in front of. Our ideal is a Court where you can trade out one judge for another and get the same outcome. This is at the heart of what we mean when we say we want the rule of law, not the rule of men – or women, or black or white, or rich or poor. We want the rule of law – not of judges’ passions, not of judges’ policy preferences. *** Here’s the second reason for the black robe: it helps explain the calling of a judge – to the judge. By way of loose analogy, lots of folks sat in church pews yesterday and listened to someone preach from behind a big wooden pulpit while wearing a robe. Why the pulpit; why the robe? Because these things make it harder to see the preacher. They help us in the pews understand it’s not about the messenger, but about the message being passed on from above. And it helps the minister get the same point. Likewise, a good judge on the bench knows… It’s not about you - so don’t make it about yourself. I said it was a loose analogy because the job of Supreme Court justice is absolutely not to deliver an eternal message from God. It’s to interpret a written, man-made Constitution as objectively and faithfully as they can, inserting their own opinions as little as possible. When you put on that robe, you are also cloaking your personal preferences. There’s not a red robe for Republicans; there’s not a blue one for Democrats. We issue only black robes. *** This brings us to a third and final point, which is that the judge’s robe helps us teach our kids how to understand our – their – Constitution. As all of us learned in School House Rock, the judiciary is not only a separate branch of government from the President and the Congress, but also a co-equal one. We have different functions but the same responsibility to uphold our constitution. As a co-equal, the court can examine whether the actions of the other two branches are unconstitutional. Time and again in our nation’s history, the Court has struck down laws passed by Congress or put a stop to a president’s executive actions. Here’s what that means: the primary job of the Supreme Court justice is not to uphold the will of the majority of the moment. The primary job of the Supreme Court is not to reflect the popular opinions of the day. That may come as a surprising statement. Don’t we live in a democracy where majorities rule? The answer to that question is only a qualified yes – there are critical limits. The Constitution is a decidedly anti-majoritarian document in wonderful and important ways that intentionally protect our rights and our liberties. And the role of the Supreme Court – in protecting those rights and liberties - is sometimes precisely to frustrate the will of a majority. Let’s unpack this by looking at how the Constitution deals with religion. The First Amendment prohibits the government from establishing any state religion, and guarantees that every citizen can worship – or not worship – however they want. If, somehow, polling showed a 51% popular desire to pass a law making church attendance mandatory, or to subsidize a particular religious denomination, the Supreme Court would rightfully strike down such laws. This is because in the Constitution we decided to limit our own power. We the people decided at the founding of our nation to restrain our own majoritarian impulses. By enacting a Constitution, we intentionally tied our own hands so that there are certain things the majority may never do, like invade someone’s conscience. And if the majority - in its arrogance - should cross the line, the Supreme Court rightfully says no. When Congress passes an unconstitutional law, it is, in fact, Congress that violates the longer-term will of the people. The judiciary is there to assert the will of the people (embodied in our shared constitution) over against that unconstitutional but temporarily popular law. Each branch serves the people but in unique ways. It is the job of Congress and the President to act. It is the job of the Court at times to react. Each branch holding the others in check. Each branch faithfully upholding the Constitution. Each branch serving the American people. When a Supreme Court justice puts on his or her black robe, we don’t want them confusing their job for those of the other branches. We want them policing the structure of our government to make sure each branch does its job, and only its job. *** Today, Judge Gorsuch is wearing a suit and tie. Before he can put on that black robe he must answer this committee’s questions. I expect that Mr. Gorsuch, the citizen, has policy preferences and desired outcomes. I also expect that by the end of this week it will be clear that Judge Gorsuch, the judge’s judge, will faithfully embody the spirit of that black robe. With that, I yield back.
03.20.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding Secretary of State John Gale’s announcement that he will not run for re-election in 2018. “Over his many years of public service as one of Nebraska's Constitutional officers, Secretary of State John Gale has been steadfast in his pursuit of transparent elections. Nebraskans across our state thank Secretary Gale for his outstanding work and unquestionable character. We also commend the Secretary for his willingness to serve Nebraska, and look forward to his continued leadership throughout the remainder of his term.”
03.09.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following response to WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange’s press conference. "It is imprudent to comment on the particulars of these leaks but this is dead certain: Julian Assange should spend the rest of his life wearing an orange jumpsuit. He’s an enemy of the American people and an ally to Vladimir Putin. Mr. Assange has dedicated his life’s work to endangering innocent lives, abetting despots, and stoking a crisis of confidence in the West.” Julian Assange should spend the rest of his life wearing an orange jumpsuit. This is why: https://t.co/jEPlpd2Krv pic.twitter.com/Zj81vZy0vt — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) March 9, 2017
03.09.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight, directly asked Attorney General Sessions if “the Department of Justice [believes] Julian Assange has broken the law and is the Department aggressively pursuing his detention and prosecution?”Earlier today, the White House Press Secretary referred a question about the WikiLeaks founder to the Department of Justice. In January, the Intelligence Community issued a formal assessment saying that WikiLeaks is a known outlet of foreign propaganda. The full text of Sasse’s letter is found here and below: Dear Attorney General Sessions,When asked if the President believes Julian Assange – the creator and manager of the WikiLeaks website – should be imprisoned for his deliberate acquisition and release of sensitive and classified information, the President’s spokesman, Mr. Sean Spicer, referred the question to the Department of Justice (DOJ). As the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight, I am asking you directly:Does the Department of Justice believe Julian Assange has broken the law and is the Department aggressively pursuing his detention and prosecution?Frankly, it is amazing that I even have to ask this question of the Administration in light of the Intelligence Community’s formal assessment that Mr. Assange’s website is a known outlet for foreign propaganda and in light of Mr. Assange’s history of recklessly endangering the lives of Americans through his illegal disclosures. Nevertheless, because Mr. Spicer referred this matter to DOJ, I am now asking you.I look forward to your prompt response.
03.09.2017	Sasse: “Free trade is a clear-cut win for Nebraska.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after convening a meeting with Robert Lighthizer, nominee to lead the U.S. Trade Representative office. Sasse and Lighthizer were joined by leaders from Nebraska agriculture, including Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson, Nebraska Cattlemen President Troy Stowater, Nebraska Pork Producers President Russ Vering, Nebraska Wheat Growers President Randon Peters, Nebraska Corn Growers President Dan Wesely, and U.S. Soybean Export Council Chairman Jim Miller. “Free trade is a clear-cut win for Nebraska,” said Sasse. “I’m glad that some of Nebraska’s agriculture leaders brought their perspectives directly to U.S. Trade Representative nominee Lighthizer. Nebraska feeds the world and, to continue on that mission, we need to build trade networks around the globe." “Senator Sasse and members of the Farm Bureau are going to keep talking about the future of trade,” said Nelson. “Free trade creates networks and opportunities for Nebraskans, especially those of us that farm, and it needs to be a top priority. Nebraska Farm Bureau looks forward to continuing these conversations with Senator Sasse and nominee Lighthizer.” “Nebraska Cattlemen greatly appreciates Senator Sasse’s leadership on promoting trade for agriculture,” said Stowater. “It is a virtual certainty that U.S. red meat production will be at new all-time annual records in both 2017 and 2018, and we have an immediate need to emphasize export opportunities with our global trading partners. We look forward to working with USTR nominee Robert Lighthizer in promoting U.S. beef exports and removing barriers to trade." “On behalf of Nebraska’s pork producers, I am very appreciative of Senator Sasse’s leadership in arranging this meeting with United States Trade Representatives nominee, Robert Lighthizer,”said Vering. “Nebraska’s progress in expanding its pork industry for the next generation will rely heavily on foreign markets and sound free trade agreements.” "Access to foreign markets is important for wheat growers as half of the wheat in our state is exported,” said Peters. “On behalf of the Nebraska Wheat Growers Association, I’d like to thank Senator Sasse for his continued efforts to highlight the importance of international trade and support our state’s farmers." “Nebraska is known for its corn,” said Wesely. “That being said, we still have work to do when it comes to promoting our products and educating our leaders about the benefits of free trade. Senator Sasse, by leading these conversations, is an advocate Nebraskans should be proud of.” “We want to thank Senator Sasse for bringing Nebraskans to the table today,” said Miller. “With sixty to seventy percent of Nebraska soybeans being exported, our farmers know the importance of free trade. Our nation, through our trade representatives, needs to ensure that the agriculture industry is given every opportunity to succeed.” Attendees: Steve Nelson, of Axtel (Kearney County) Troy Stowater, of Wayne (Wayne County) Russ Vering, of Scribner (Dodge County) Randon Peters, of McCook (Red Willow County) Dan Wesely, of Morse Bluff (Saunders County) Jim Miller, of Belden (Cedar County)
03.08.2017	Sasse: “This is a win for kids because Washington’s good intentions can’t excuse garbage rules.” U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) issued the following statement after the Senate passed H.J.Res. 58, a resolution to overturn the Obama Administration Department of Education’s rule regulating teacher preparation programs. "This is a win for kids because Washington’s good intentions can’t excuse garbage rules,” said Sasse. “Every single member of the Senate wants good teachers for our kids, but that’s not what the rule was about. Nearly 700 pages were written around the crazy idea that Washington bureaucrats are competent to micromanage thousands of teacher training programs across the country. Our schools, teachers, kids, and communities will have some space to breathe and room to succeed when we’ve reversed this absurd micromanaging." “Overturning this regulation says that states – not a distant department in Washington, D.C.—are responsible for evaluating whether a college’s program gives teachers the skills they need to help their students learn,” said Alexander. “The department’s regulation also would force states to evaluate teachers in a way that Congress specifically prohibited in the bill to fix No Child Left Behind that got 85 votes in the Senate. I look forward to President Trump’s signature.” Background: On October 31, 2016, the U.S. Department of Education published a final rule in the Federal Register that establishes new requirements for teacher preparation programs.The new rule hits states with new federal mandates for how states judge teachers. Like No Child Left Behind, these new mandates override state and local responsibility with Washington-based systems that rely heavily on student test scores. Some education advocates worry that the rule’s increased burden hits schools who are already feeling the impact of teacher shortages and creates a disincentive for talented teachers to go to the very schools that need them most.Today’s legislation, which already passed the House of Representatives on February 7, simply overturns the rule. Senator Sasse was the lead sponsor in the Senate. The resolution passed by a bipartisan vote of 59-40 and now heads to the President’s desk.
03.07.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) joined a small group of Senators, led by Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ), urging President Donald Trump veto any bill containing congressional earmarks. The letter was also signed by U.S. Sens. Mike Lee (R-UT), John McCain (R-AZ), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Rand Paul (R-KY). “This is pretty simple: earmarks promote a corrupt, pay-to-play politics and that’s part of the swamp that the President promised to drain,” said Sasse. “We’re respectfully asking the President to keep that promise and veto any bills that contain earmarks. This won’t be popular with the permanent-incumbency class but that’s exactly why it’s the right thing to do for America’s taxpayers.” Background:In 2011, Congress banned the practice of earmarking in which a single member of Congress could direct millions of federal dollars to their districts. View a signed copy of the letter here. Text of the letter can be viewed below. Dear President Trump, With our national debt set to top $20 trillion within days and growing at a rate of over half-a-trillion dollars a year, bringing fiscal sanity to the federal budget requires immediate attention and action. We write today to urge opposition to any efforts by Congress to return to earmarking. While cutting unnecessary and wasteful spending may be commonsense to most taxpayers, behind every dollar spent is a boisterous special interest group with the loudest being Congress itself. Even with a full agenda that includes repealing Obamacare, reforming the tax code, easing the regulatory burden and strengthening our nation’s security, some lawmakers are focused on reviving the corrupt practice of earmarking that was ended in 2011 after what seemed like an endless series of corruption scandals. Fondly described as a “favor factory” by a lobbyist convicted of exchanging gifts for government grants, earmarks represent the pay-to-play culture you have pledged to end. It is unfathomable to those of us who fought to end earmarks and witnessed our colleagues go to jail for corruption that pork barrel politics would return, especially at this time when Americans are clearly fed up with business-as-usual. However, despite the success of the current moratorium enacted in both chamber of Congress, there are efforts underway seeking to revive the disdainful practice. President Reagan vetoed a highway bill in 1987 because it was larded up with 152 earmarks. Escalating exponentially, the over-budget transportation bill signed into law in 2005 contained more 6,300 earmarks. Earmark proponents are trying to reassure that this time will be different, promising fewer projects and even rebranding them as “congressionally-directed spending.” With the serious fiscal problems facing our nation, processing thousands or even hundreds of pork requests will only distract and delay addressing pressing national needs and push spending decisions once again into the murky shadows. We respectfully urge you to make it clear that you will veto any bill Congress sends to you containing earmarks within the legislative text or the accompanying report. We look forward to working with you to make Washington more accountable and stop wasteful spending where it starts, which is often right here in Congress. Sincerely,
03.07.2017	“Do you really think that bureaucrats in this city know better how to run teacher training programs than people who've spent most of their lives inside actual classrooms with actual future teachers and with students?” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse spoke on the Senate floor urging his colleagues to rescind the Obama Administration’s harmful teacher mandates. In his speech, Sasse asked proponents of the rule three simple questions: “First, do you really think that bureaucrats in this city know better how to run teacher training programs than people who've spent most of their lives inside actual classrooms with actual future teachers and with students?”“Question number two: Has anyone actually read this regulation that folks are going to say they want to defend on this floor?”“And question number three: Can the folks who think that this is what Washington, D.C. ought to be doing right now please show me somewhere in [the Constitution] where we are given the specific authority to micro-manage local programs like this from here?” Additional excerpts of the Senator’s remarks are found below: “This regulation actually makes the assumption that bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. are competent to micromanage teacher training programs in America. That’s what this regulation ultimately does and that’s absurd.” “This is the 695 pages of the regulation that we’re talking about today. And it’s actually silly. If you read inside it, it is filled with enough specificity that if you tried to explain it to thoughtful, generally educated Americans, I submit to you that you would blush. There is a level of detail and a level of specificity in this that we are not possibly competent to defend at the micro-level.” “Am I suggesting that all teacher training programs in America work well? Heavens no. There are some that are fairly strong and there are actually a lot that are really, really poor and weak. But having a good intention to make them better is not the same as actually having accomplished something that will make them better. Good intentions are not enough. For us in this body to act because we have compulsory governmental powers, we would need not merely good intentions, we would also need competence and authority.” “Good intentions are not enough. Federal intervention and reforms should never make problems worse, and that is what this rule would do.” Additional Background: On October 31, 2016, the U.S. Department of Education published a final rule in the Federal Register that establishes new requirements for teacher preparation programs.The new rule hits states with new federal mandates for how states judge teachers. Like No Child Left Behind, these new mandates override state and local responsibility with Washington-based systems that rely heavily on student test scores. Some education advocates worry that the rule’s increased burden hits schools who are already feeling the impact of teacher shortages and creates a disincentive for talented teachers to go to the very schools that need them most.Today’s legislation, which already passed the House of Representatives on February 7, simply overturns the rule.
03.04.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the death of Clayton Yeutter, former Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Trade Representative, and RNC chairman.“Whether it was in Lincoln, Washington, or halfway around the world, Clayton was a Nebraska statesman through and through. His humility, integrity, and dedication to public service made our state proud. Melissa and I are saddened by this loss and keep his family in our prayers.”
03.04.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary and Armed Services Committees, issued the following statement after President Trump accused former President Obama of wiretapping his phones in 2016 and Obama’s spokesman said that was false."The President today made some very serious allegations, and the informed citizens that a republic requires deserve more information. If there were wiretaps of then-candidate Trump’s organization or campaign, then it was either with FISA Court authorization or without such authorization. If without, the President should explain what sort of wiretap it was and how he knows this. It is possible that he was illegally tapped. On the other hand, if it was with a legal FISA Court order, then an application for surveillance exists that the Court found credible. The President should ask that this full application regarding surveillance of foreign operatives or operations be made available, ideally to the full public, and at a bare minimum to the U.S. Senate. "We are in the midst of a civilization-warping crisis of public trust, and the President’s allegations today demand the thorough and dispassionate attention of serious patriots. A quest for the full truth, rather than knee-jerk partisanship, must be our guide if we are going to rebuild civic trust and health."
03.02.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services and Judiciary Committees, issued the following statement regarding Attorney General Sessions’ recusal and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s Russia investigation."Attorney General Sessions’ recusal is the right decision, and the Senate Intelligence Committee should accelerate its work. America has a public trust crisis and Putin's oligarchy of crooks and spooks is actively working to sabotage confidence in our institutions. The American people deserve a comprehensive, top-to-bottom investigation of Putin's Soviet-style meddling in self-government at home and across the West.”
03.01.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following video, celebrating 150 years of Nebraska’s statehood. “As we celebrate 150 years of statehood,” said Sasse, “we tell our kids the stories of the pioneers, caretakers of the land, statesmen, and volunteers who have made our state so great.”
02.28.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse announced that Jon Holzfaster, of Paxton, will be his guest at President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. Holzfaster operates a third generation family farm, and has served on the Nebraska Corn Board and the Nebraska Dry Bean Commission. “I’m grateful that Jon is joining me for the President’s speech so that we can highlight some of the most important issues facing Nebraska’s families,” said Sasse. “We need to ensure that Nebraska’s ag economy has opportunities to succeed and that means gaining access to foreign markets through trade.” “I’m honored to have been invited by Senator Sasse to attend the President’s speech to Congress,” said Holzfaster. “Trade is important to our state’s farmers and ranchers and we need to share that Nebraska success story with Washington.”
02.28.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order that will begin to unravel the Obama administration's Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS). "The EPA's unconstitutional water rule will die; and Nebraska's farmers and ranchers won't shed a single tear. Everyone wants clean water but the bureaucrats at the EPA were out-of-control, writing new laws to regulate puddles and ditches from Washington. Nobody cares more about land and water than Nebraska's producers but nobody here at home voted for these absurd regulations. This is excellent news for the rule of law and Nebraska agriculture." Great news: The EPA’s unconstitutional water rule will die. Nebraska’s farmers & ranchers won’t shed a single tear. https://t.co/urfVyVq1Q8 pic.twitter.com/x3qDAJ9NAS — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) February 28, 2017
02.23.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse sent Scott Pruitt, the newly confirmed administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a letter inviting the administrator to Nebraska and outlining a constitutional, pro-growth agenda for the first hundred days. "Nobody knows the nightmare of federal red tape like the Nebraska farmers and ranchers dealing with the EPA," said Sasse. "Nebraskans like me are encouraged by Mr. Pruitt's record of fighting the EPA's unconstitutional Waters of the United States rule and understanding that laws are made by Congress not Washington bureaucrats. I've invited Mr. Pruitt to visit Nebraska and outlined ten common-sense goals for his first hundred days." In the letter, which can be found below, Senator Sasse urged Administrator Pruitt to: 1. Withdraw the Waters of the United States Rule and Restore State and Local Control Over Non-Federal Environmental Protection. 2. Put a Stop to EPA Freelancing in Implementing the Renewable Fuels Standard. 3. Improve Coordination with Federal Agencies.4. End Abusive “Sue and Settle” Practices. 5. Eliminate the EPA's “Clean Power Plan.”6. Reduce Needlessly Costly Regulations. 7. Protect the Privacy of Farmers and Ranchers.8. Collect Additional Information on Mining Rules. 9. Review Rule for the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan. 10. Decentralize EPA Enforcement Actions. Dear Administrator Pruitt:Congratulations on your confirmation to serve as the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).Please accept my invitation to visit the state of Nebraska. Our farmers and ranchers would welcome the opportunity to meet with you and share their unified work to protect their land and the environment. In your testimony before the Senate Environment and Public Works committee, you referenced three principles that you believed would help the EPA promote a healthier environment, a stability in managing our natural resources, and a stronger economy: the rule of law, cooperative federalism, and public participation. I agree with your assessment. Sadly, the EPA has not been marked by these principles, but has instead acted in a manner that has left many Americans, especially Nebraskans, concerned that their voice is not heard at the EPA. Furthermore, the EPA’s overreaching regulatory hand has shaken the confidence of state governments and citizens in cooperative federalism and the rule of law. I am hopeful that as you begin your service at the EPA, you can again make the EPA an institution that respects the Constitution by recognizing that the legislative branch – not the executive branch – writes the laws. As you prioritize the workload of the EPA, I would like to bring to your attention several items that are important to Nebraskans and humbly request that you prioritize these areas in your first 100-days as Administrator. Withdraw the Waters of the United States Rule and Restore State and Local Control Over Non-Federal Environmental Protection: Nebraska is a rural state where one-in-four jobs is tied to agriculture.I have heard from many Nebraskans who believe that the EPA has been on a single-minded quest to extend federal power and expand federal jurisdiction through the Clean Water Act so that joint EPA and Army Corps of Engineers regulatory authority would cover all waters where Congress left the authority to the States. Understanding that litigation on this issue is ongoing, I request that the EPA enforce the law and seek Congressional input if the agency encounters an ambiguity in the law instead of unilaterally rewriting the law. Please withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule forthwith and consider revisions, with input from the states, that would protect the cooperative federalism envisioned in the Clean Water Act as well as define the term “navigable waters” in a manner that does not go beyond the statute. I am deeply skeptical of approaches that assume that textual ambiguity in a statute confers broad discretionary power to any federal agency. Please also strike any memoranda of understanding that may hinder the withdrawal of the WOTUS rule. Put a Stop to EPA Freelancing in Implementing the Renewable Fuels Standard:The passage of the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) in 2007 specified the annual volume targets of biofuels to be blended with gasoline. Unfortunately, the EPA has previously proposed rules that unilaterally rewrote the annual volume limits set by Congress. Please review the text of federal law as written by Congress, release annual volume limits in a timely manner, and judiciously consider the general waiver authority provided in statute. Regulatory impediments, such as constraints on sales and the lack of a Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) waiver for blends above E-10 should not interfere with consumer-based marketplace decisions. The EPA has previously argued that the Clean Air Act precludes the granting of a RVP waiver to blends over E-10 because it would cause vehicles and engines to exceed their emission standards in use. Please review the federal law related to any applicable RVP waiver and determine if you agree that statutory changes are necessary to authorize the EPA to provide a waiver for blends above E-10. Please specify the necessary changes that Congress should examine. In 2010, EPA established a process for companies to petition EPA to allow new fuels to qualify as a renewable fuel under the RFS program. These petitions are known as “pathway petitions.” Cellulosic biofuel companies have waited on average more than 30-months and advanced biofuel companies have waited on average more than two-years for the EPA to approve their pathway petitions. Please review the regulatory approval process and make appropriate changes so that pathway petitions are approved in an expedited manner consistent with the statute. If there are changes to federal law that would expedite the approval of these applications, please advise me of those changes. Improve Coordination with Federal Agencies: Interagency memoranda of understanding (MOUs) are often created to encourage effective coordination and cooperative working relationships. Please identify all existing MOUs, especially those that involve the United States Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, and the Fish and Wildlife Service to determine effective interagency coordination. Please immediately suspend all MOUs designed to expand EPA authority. Please review any MOUs or other practices, guidance, or other documents that create duplicative reporting and enforcement authorities. Please freeze or reevaluate any attempts to further federalize state implementation plans or delegation agreements. End Abusive “Sue and Settle” Practices: Nebraskan farmers and ranchers have consistently and overwhelmingly expressed concern about the use of settlement agreements or consent decrees whereby the EPA has invited lawsuits from third parties, then committed itself to perform what would otherwise be discretionary acts in agreements convened pursuant to the lawsuits. This practice, known as “sue and settle,” perverts the legal structure under which the agency operates and ignores federal law that otherwise requires the use of notice and comment rulemaking. Please identify any litigation where consent decrees or settlement agreements are pending and withdraw them for further review. Eliminate the “Clean Power Plan”: The EPA has proposed new rules on carbon-dioxide emissions, commonly referred to as the Clean Power Plan. These transformative rules place enormous economic burdens on electric generating utilities, especially for a 100-percent public power state like Nebraska. Please rescind these extra-legal Clean Power Plan rules. Reduce Needlessly Costly Regulations: Industry has often made attempts to comply with a regulation through comprehensive planning and significant investments in obtaining the technology available for compliance only to have those investments stranded with regulations and aggressive deadlines that do not allow for reasonable compliance. Please undertake a comprehensive review of the many regulations EPA has promulgated that overlap and have compounding effects on industries where significant investments have been made to reach compliance on existing regulations. Protect the Privacy of Farmers and Ranchers:In 2013, EPA responded to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request by releasing sensitive, private and personal information relating to more than 100,000 farmers and ranchers, including individuals from Nebraska. In a unanimous ruling, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals noted that EPA “abused its discretion in deciding that the information at issue was not exempt from mandatory disclosure under Exemption 6 of FOIA.” Exemption 6 relates to “information involving matters of personal privacy (protected under the Privacy Act or contains sensitive personally identifiable information).” Please conduct a comprehensive and immediate review of all EPA FOIA practices so that the agency does not release or otherwise distribute the private information of my constituents in violations of FOIA exemptions. Collect Additional Information on Mining Rules: In January 2015, EPA issued a proposed rule to revise 40 C.F.R. Part 192 - Health and Environmental Protection Standards for Uranium and Thorium Mill Tailings and Uranium In-Situ Leaching Processing Facilities. This rule would require uranium recovery operators to conduct up to 30-years of groundwater monitoring following uranium production. In January 2017 EPA released a re-proposed rule for a 180-day comment period. As you evaluate the necessity for this rule, please consider collecting additional data on the costs and benefits before moving forward with a final rule. Review Rule for the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan: On January 18, 2017 EPA issued a proposed rule to revise portions of the Nebraska Regional Haze Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) applicable to the Gerald Gentlemen Station, owned and operated by the Nebraska Public Power District. Given that this proposed rule was issued two-days before Inauguration Day, please review the rationale for revising the FIP. Decentralize EPA Enforcement Actions: The Clean Water Act is landmark legislation from which EPA derives substantial authority. When Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972, it affirmed that it is Congressional policy to “recognize, preserve, and protect the primary responsibilities and rights of States to prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution, to plan the development and use…of land and water resources, and to consult with the Administrator in the exercise of his authority under this Act.” This policy, known as cooperative federalism, is a key principle that is essential to the protection of our environment and enforcement of federal environmental law and affirms that states have the primary responsibility to protect their respective environments. Unfortunately, the EPA’s Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) has often engaged in aggressive criminal and civil investigation and enforcement without consultation or cooperation with the states. Please evaluate how EPA enforcement and inspection efforts are structured and review ways to decentralize any overly aggressive efforts from headquarters and develop a more collaborative effort with states and regional offices. I look forward to working with you to increase transparency and accountability in the EPA’s regulatory process. Thank you again for your willingness to serve as Administrator of the EPA and congratulations on your confirmation. Sincerely,Ben Sasse
02.17.2017	“Nebraska farmers cannot become collateral damage in a trade war. Mexico is currently one of the biggest importers of Nebraska corn.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance, wrote to President Trump's new National Trade Council, warning about “troubling developments that threaten U.S. corn exports to Mexico.” The full text of Senator Sasse’s letter is found below. Dr. Peter NavarroAssistant to the PresidentDirector of Trade and Industrial PolicyU.S. National Trade Council Dear Dr. Navarro:As the Trump Administration negotiates trade deals on behalf of the United States, it is critical that Nebraska producers are able to continue competing in world markets. I would like to call your attention to troubling developments that threaten U.S. corn exports to Mexico.Over the last few days, Mexican officials have taken several steps to suggest Mexico may begin to import less corn from the U.S. and more from other nations. In explaining these steps, officials cite the possible re-negotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the perception that Mexican citizens are not being respected.Earlier this week, Mexican Senator Armando Rios Piter announced his plans to introduce legislation cutting off all U.S. corn purchases and instead purchase the commodity from Brazil and Argentina.[1] He said, “I’m going to send a bill for the corn that we are buying in the Midwest and...change to Brazil or Argentina,” adding it would be a “good way to tell them that this hostile relationship has consequences, hope that it changes.”[2] Then yesterday, Mexico’s Agriculture Secretary Jose Calzada said that, in light of possible changes to NAFTA, he will lead a trip to Brazil and Argentina to purchase corn. “It's not a trip to open relationships or of goodwill, it's a trip to do deals,” noted Secretary Calzada.[3] In short, these steps appear to be clear pre-emptive efforts by Mexico to retaliate against the U.S. by hurting our corn exporters. I would strongly urge the administration to act immediately to prevent any lasting damage to Nebraska agriculture exports by demonstrating that Mexico will continue to be a valued trading partner and that future negotiations will be conducted in good faith. It is the job of the federal government to help open markets around the world without losing the gains we have already made. Nebraska farmers cannot become collateral damage in a trade war. Mexico is currently one of the biggest importers of Nebraska corn. In 2014, 17 percent of Nebraska’s corn was exported to Mexico, which under NAFTA can be shipped there without any tariff or quota. It is a special point of pride for Nebraskans that our corn is in such high demand for its quality, which is all facilitated by a strong free trade agreement.This administration should take careful steps not to threaten the gains achieved by Nebraska corn growers. This includes helping our trade partners understand the benefits of a strong relationship with the United States.I look forward to working with you to protect and create overseas markets for U.S. agriculture. Sincerely,Ben Sasse CC: Maria Pagan, Acting U.S. Trade Representative Jason Hafemeister, Acting Undersecretary for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture [1] “Mexico ready to retaliate by hurting American corn farmers - Feb. 13 ....” 13 Feb. 2017, http://money.cnn.com/2017/02/13/news/economy/mexico-trump-us-corn/index.html. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. [2] “Mexico ready to retaliate by hurting American corn farmers - Feb. 13 ....” 13 Feb. 2017, http://money.cnn.com/2017/02/13/news/economy/mexico-trump-us-corn/index.html. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. [3] “INTERVIEW-Fearing Trump policies, Mexico plans South America ....” 16 Feb. 2017, http://www.nasdaq.com/article/interviewfearing-trump-policies-mexico-plans-south-america-corn-shopping-trip-20170216-01687. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017.
02.16.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a resolution to roll back the Obama Administration’s rule forcing states to fund abortion providers through the taxpayer-funded Title X program. “Nebraskans know that being pro-life means supporting moms and babies with love. We want to champion life-giving health providers without funding abortion businesses. The House took an important and compassionate step for life and it’s time for the Senate to follow suit.” The House-passed legislation would not reduce Title X funds but instead allow states to redirect funds to women’s health providers and community health centers that do not perform abortions.
02.13.2017	Kay Orr and Cynthia Milligan will serve as Co-Chairs Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, announced his Nebraska Justice and Judicial Nominations Advisory Commission for reviewing candidates for Senate-confirmed federal offices in Nebraska such as U.S. Attorney and U.S. Marshal. Senator Sasse’s Nebraska Justice and Judicial Nominations Advisory Commission is an independent body of well-respected Nebraska leaders that will review applications, interview candidates, and make recommendations to Senator Sasse. Each Senator makes his or her recommendation to the White House. After the White House sends a nomination to the Senate, the Senate Judiciary Committee will begin its confirmation process which, by longstanding precedent, requires the approval of both home-state senators.“Nebraskans give our U.S. Attorney and U.S. Marshals real power and major responsibility to enforce our nation’s laws,” said Senator Sasse. “Candidates have to fit a tall order: surefire integrity, talent, and reverence for the law. In order to faithfully uphold my constitutional responsibility to give the President my best advice and consent on these nominees, I’m seeking the independent judgment of these Nebraska leaders. I’m grateful for their service and especially pleased that the commission will be in the steady hands of Governor Orr and Cynthia Milligan.” “I am pleased and honored to have this opportunity, along with other Nebraskans, to assist Senator Sasse in finding the most qualified people for these positions,” said former Governor Kay Orr.“This is important work,” said Cynthia Milligan. “The public servants who enforce the laws should be picked by the Nebraskans who follow the laws. That’s what we want this open process to help ensure. I am grateful to Senator Sasse for his leadership on this and am ready to get to work.” Sasse Nebraska Justice and Judicial Nominations Advisory Commission Co-Chair, Kay Orr - Former Governor of Nebraska. Co-Chair, Cynthia Milligan - Businesswoman, Dean Emeritus of the College of Business Administration at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Patrick Borchers - Former Dean Creighton University School of Law. Weysan Dun - Retired Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Omaha Division. Randy Fair - Keith County Attorney. Joe Stecher - Former U.S. Attorney for the District of Nebraska under President George W. Bush. Lyle Wheeler - Attorney and Former University of Nebraska College of Law Federalist Society President. Additional information on the application process can be found here. Forms for U.S. Attorney can be found here and forms for U.S. Marshals can be found here. Completed applications must be submitted by close of business March 13, 2017.U.S. Attorneys are the chief federal law enforcement officers in their districts and work to faithfully defend the constitution and execute federal laws. Under federal law, U.S. Attorneys are responsible for prosecuting criminal cases brought by the Federal Government, prosecuting and defending civil cases in which the United States is a party, and collecting debts owed to the Federal Government. The U.S. Marshals Services is the law enforcement arm of the federal court system. U.S. Marshals have some of the broadest arrest authority among various law enforcement agencies and have responsibility for fugitive investigations.
02.11.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after Judge Neil Gorsuch returned the bipartisan questionnaire that Chairman Chuck Grassley and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein sent to him after his nomination for Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. “The American people deserve more than the reflexive partisanship and panicked talking points of last week. Every Senator – all of us who took the same oath to a system of checks and balances – should dig into these papers and carefully consider someone who understands and affirms the American idea of limited government and skepticism of consolidated power. We’ve got a lot of reading before the committee’s hearings.”
02.10.2017	Today, Nebraska’s U.S. Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse announced that the application process for filling a forthcoming vacancy in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Last week, Chief Judge William Jay Riley announced he will transition from active service to senior status effective June 30, 2017. Under the U.S. Constitution, judicial nominations are made by the president “by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate.” Typically, home state senators work with the Office of White House Counsel to identify for the president’s consideration qualified candidates for vacancies on the U.S. circuit courts. Senators Fischer and Sasse invite applications from qualified Nebraskans. Individuals interested in applying for the vacancy should review the following details.Applicants must complete a comprehensive questionnaire detailing a candidate’s background and qualifications. Candidates must respond to all questions, except 20, 22, 23, and 26. Please note that personal financial data will be required at a later date for finalists. This information is required by both the White House and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary before a finalist may move forward in the confirmation process. All questionnaires should be submitted with a letter of interest. References and letters of recommendation are welcome. The letter of interest, questionnaire, and any accompanying documents must be either emailed to Judicial_Vacancy@fischer.senate.gov and Judiciary_Vacancy@sasse.senate.gov by March 24, 2017, or postmarked to Senator Fischer’s and Senator Sasse's Washington offices by March 17, 2017. Candidates submitting by mail should address all materials to Senator Fischer at 454 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20510 and Senator Sasse at 386A Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20510.For questions about these processes, please contact Senator Fischer’s Washington office at 202-224-6551 or Senator Sasse’s Washington office at 202-224-4224.The questionnaire can be found here.
02.09.2017	"Frankly, I think everybody in this body ought to be celebrating the nomination of a guy who's out there affirming three separate but equal branches and the independence of the judiciary." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor this afternoon on Judge Neil Gorsuch, criticisms of the judicial branch, and the need for all three branches government to uphold and defend the Constitution's system of checks and balances. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleagues as well for yielding to me, a little bit of out of line here. I think one thing we don't do nearly a good enough job around here (not just in Washington, D.C., but in schools across America) is reflect on the basic civics that we've inherited and the constitutional structure of checks and balances—and why we have a limited government. And I think judge Gorsuch's nomination to the Supreme Court, and frankly more narrowly just the media cycles of today, give us a special opportunity to pause and to do a little bit of civics again. Judge Gorsuch is tough, smart, fair-minded, independent, and he's a guy who's taken an oath of office to a Constitution of limits. That's exactly the sort of thing that we should be affirming and celebrating around here. I think that everyone on both sides of the aisle in this body should be celebrating Judge Gorsuch and what he believes about a constitutional system that has limits. And defending your own branch—the Founders envisioned a world where these three branches would be jealous of their own prerogatives—defending your own branch is not to attack another branch. And so, as I've read the media reports this morning of who said what to whom and who shouted at whom and who argued about what—what if we just paused and reflected again on what it means to believe in a Constitution that has three separate but equal branches that are supposed to check and balance one another? So I happen to have on my desk (I went and looked after seeing some media reports this morning) I happen to have the breast pocket card I had in my suit two days ago when I met with the Judge and I asked him about the comments coming from the White House criticizing a "so-called judge." So I just would like to share with this body some of the comments that the Judge made to me when I asked him what he thought about the criticism of the "so-called judge," because we don't have "so-called judges." We don't have "so-called presidents," and we don't have "so-called senators." We have people from three branches that have taken an oath to a Constitution. So here's some of what the Judge told me when I asked him what he thought about those comments. He got a little bit emotional and he said that any attack, or any criticism, of his "brothers and sisters of the robe," is an attack or a criticism on everybody wearing the robe as a judge. I think that's something that this body should be pretty excited to hear someone say who's been nominated to the high Court. He said it is incredibly disheartening to hear things that might undermine the credibility and the independence of the judiciary. He said it is completely legitimate for all of us to vigorously debate individual opinions. We should argue about opinions. We can argue as citizens about cases. We can argue in this legislative branch or the executive branch, can argue about the merits of particular opinions and yet we want to affirm the three branches. So he said it's disheartening for us to do anything that might undermine that. He then pointed me back to his comments at the White House the night he was nominated. So I went back and looked at his comments and the very first people he thanked when he had been nominated to the Court was, he said, I want to celebrate the judges of America who are the "Unsung heroes of the rule of law" in this country. He called the judges unsung hero heroes of the rule of law. He said an independent judiciary has "got to be tough. It is not my job as a nominee to the Court and it's not the job of any other judge to comment on particular cases and it's not the job of judges to play politics or to hold press conferences talking about politics." But we can recognize that historically the other two branches are often wary of times when the Court asserts its prerogatives. So he said, for instance, Thomas Jefferson didn't like Marbury vs. Madison and it was completely legitimate for President Jefferson to criticize and argue about the merits of the Marbury vs.Madison decision, even as we do the important civics work of reaffirming the three separate but equal branches. Frankly, I think everybody in this body ought to be celebrating the nomination of a guy who's out there affirming three separate but equal branches and the independence of the judiciary. We should want to see the executive branch checked and, frankly, if we really love America—as I know people in this body do—we should want to see our own powers limited because it is fundamentally American to be skeptical of the consolidation of power. Our Founders divided power and checked and balanced each of the other branches because they were skeptical of what people in power might ultimately do. Sadly, there are some on the other side of the aisle today, and I think many are going to give him a fair shake, but there are some on the other side of the aisle who decided they want to reflexively attack Judge Gorsuch. It's like Keystone Kops running around trying to figure out which story you want to label it with: I hear some people saying: "Gorsuch because he's been nominated by this President and a bunch of people don't like this President, therefore, he can't be independent. He will be a puppet." Others saying "Gorsuch has rented a plane and taking out a sky-writing script and he's out there saying 'I hate Donald Trump, I hate Donald Trump.'" That's nonsense. Neither of those things are true. He is not a puppet and he's not out there attacking the President of the United States. He's meeting with us, trying to explain his view of an independent judiciary. He's trying to affirm the same constitutional oath of office that all of us in this body have taken. I think it's high time in this body that we get beyond reflexive partisanship of Republicans are for Republicans if they have the same label and Democrats are against Republicans and vice versa. Our job fundamentally in this body is an oath that we've taken to three separate but equal branches. And I think what we're hearing in these private meetings with Judge Gorsuch and what I'm sure he's going to say when he speaks for himself publicly before the Judiciary Committee, what we're hearing from him is a guy who believes in three separate but equal branches and is skeptical of the consolidation of power because he understands why America has limited government. That's the kind of person we should be celebrating having been nominated to the Court. Thank you, Mr. President.
02.07.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after meeting with Judge Neil Gorsuch, President Trump’s nominee for Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. "Judge Gorsuch is a supremely qualified and thoughtful nominee. The Chicken Little hysteria from some of my friends on the other side of the aisle is just sad and absurd. If they keep working to paint Judge Gorsuch as a mouth-breathing bald eagle hunter, they'll embarrass themselves. Judge Gorsuch and I talked at length about our constitutional system of checks and balances. Whenever Democrats want to stop dealing in fiction, I’m confident Judge Gorsuch is ready for a serious conversation."
02.05.2017	"Judge Gorsuch is a rock star. And I applaud the president for this pick. This is the kind of guy that the Founders envisioned serving as a judge." This morning, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, joined ABC News "This Week." Video and transcript are found below. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's bring in Republican Senator Ben Sasse right now. He's come to us from Nebraska this morning. Senator Sasse, thank you for joining us this morning.You just heard Senator Klobuchar talk about Judge Gorsuch there. Do you believe he's a mainstream candidate?SASSE: Judge Gorsuch is a rock star. And I applaud the president for this pick. This is the kind of guy that the Founders envisioned serving as a judge. He affirms the three branches of government and wants to defend individual rights and uphold the constitution. Everybody across the political spectrum should celebrate him.STEPHANOPOULOS: Is it going to come to the nuclear option? And would you support changing the Senate rules?SASSE: I really think those conversations are premature. I don't know why people would be questioning Gorsuch. If you start reading his opinions, as I have been doing the last three weeks, he's the kind of guy who, I'm sure -- late at night when he gets home from his chambers and takes off his robe, he probably has personal political views, but reading his opinions, I can't figure out what they are. He knows what a judge's job is. And he wants to defend the constitution. And he's not trying to be a super legislator.So, I think it's premature to talk process fights when I think people across the political spectrum should be excited about this judge when they read his opinions.STEPHANOPOULOS: Confident he'll be confirmed?SASSE: I think he will.STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's talk about - you talked about the three branches of government. And during the campaign, you were actually quite critical of Mr. Trump. You said he displays essentially no understanding of our constitutional system of checks and balances with three separate, but co-equal branches of government.Are we seeing that again with this attack on a so-called federal judge?SASSE: I'll be honest, I don't understand language like that. We don't have so-called judges, we don't have so-called senators, we don't have so-called presidents, we have people from three different branches of government who take an oath to uphold and defend the constitution. And it's important that we do better civics education for our kids. So, we don't have any so-called judges, we have real judges.STEPHANOPOULOS: And on the travel ban as well, you have been critical of the travel ban, you said it will make our country less safe. I guess the question for you is what can the senate do about that?SASSE: Well, actually, back up. I would like to give the full context of what I said. I applaud what the president is trying to do in focusing attention on the fact that we haven't taken borders seriously enough, and we haven't done enough vetting of a lot of folks trying to come to the U.S., especially from nations that have failed states.If you look at places like Syria and Libya, there hasn't been enough vetting going on over the course of the last couple of years. And so I applaud the president's goal.Now, once we affirm the goal of trying to make sure that you don't have jihadis infiltrating [refugee] flows, we need to make sure we're doing it in a thoughtful way that's thinking about the 10 and 15 and 20 years long battle we're going to have against jihadists.There are two ways that you can go wrong in our long-term fight against jihadis.One would be to not acknowledge that terrorism and especially jihadi-motivated terrorism, comes from specific places in the world and is connected to specific ideologies.But another way to fall off a cliff and harm our long-term interests would be to imply that the U.S. is at war with Islam. And obviously, this wasn't a Muslim ban, it was a travel ban. But it's been done -- it was done in a clunky enough way that initial weekend that jihadi recruiters could present it to the people they are trying to recruit as if the U.S. is against all Muslims. And we know that we're not at war with all Muslims, we're at war with a subset of Islam that believes in killing in the name of religion, as jihadis do.So we've got to have a long-term focus in the way we implement this and frankly, I think the administration has taken some important steps to improve upon the clunkiness of the initial weekend.STEPHANOPOULOS: And on Russia, we saw the president's comments today. You heard Senator Klobuchar, another one of your Republican colleagues, Marco Rubio, has weighed in this morning on Twitter.He said, "When has a Democratic political activist been poisoned by the GOP or vice versa? We are not the same as Putin."That was signed "M.R." Marco Rubio.Your response to the president?SASSE: You know, I'll be honest, I don't know what the president is trying to do with statements like he allegedly has on O'Reilly, on the Super Bowl tonight. So I've only seen little clips of it. There may be a broader context.But let's be clear.Has the U.S. ever made any mistakes? Of course.Is the U.S. at all like Putin's regime? Not at all.The U.S. affirms freedom of speech. Putin is no friend of freedom of speech.Putin is an enemy of freedom of religion. The U.S. celebrates freedom of religion.Putin is an enemy of the free press. The U.S. celebrates free press.Putin is an enemy of political dissent. The U.S. celebrates political dissent and the right for people to argue free from violence about places or ideas that are in conflict.There is no moral equivalency between the United States of America, the greatest freedom-loving nation in the history of the world, and the murderous thugs that are in Putin's defense of his cronyism. STEPHANOPOULOS: More broadly...SASSE: There's no moral equivalency there.STEPHANOPOULOS: More broadly, are Senate Republicans in the same place as President Trump on the issue of Russia?SASSE: I don't understand what the president's position is on Russia, but I can tell you what my position is on Russia.Russia is a great danger to a lot of its neighbors and Putin has, as one of his core objectives, fracturing NATO, which is one of the greatest military alliances in the history of the world.And so Putin is a mess. He's committed all sorts of murderous thuggery. And I am opposed to the way Putin conducts himself in world affairs and I hope that the president also wants to show moral leadership about this issue.STEPHANOPOULOS: On spending, on the issue of spending, you've often warned that the U.S. is on a path toward a Greek-style debt crisis and that health entitlements are the single greatest culprit.President Obama has vowed not to teach Medicare.Can you support a budget that increases the debt or the debt and deficits that does not touch Medicare?SASSE: Let's have a long-term conversation about what's actually wrong.Because when you go to town halls, when I do town halls across Nebraska, lots of our folks know the $19 trillion or $20 trillion number that's the publicly held bond debt number.But the real number of the US' obligations, unfunded obligations that we're passing on to our future generations is more like $70 trillion to $75 trillion. The vast majority of that is health entitlements -- Medicare, ObamaCare, Medicaid. There's also Social Security, interest on the debt. But fundamentally, health entitlements are the thing that will bankrupt our kids. We need to fix that for the long-term.We obviously have to honor the commitments that have been made to the people who are already retired or near the retirement age. But we need to tell the truth about the fact that when we set the retirement age at age 65 in this country, life expectancy was only 62.Now, it's about 80. My 5-year-old kid running around here in the background getting ready for church this morning has a 50-50 statistical probability of living to age 100. He's not going to retire at age 65 and play 35 years of middle class entitlement golf.We should tell the long-term truth about health entitlements and start fixing it for people that are 50 and 55 and below. But nobody is trying to change Medicare for people who are already on it.STEPHANOPOULOS: And a final question.You've been so critical of President Trump during the campaign and you voted -- you actually voted -- you wrote in Mike Pence for president.What is -- from what you've seen over the first two weeks, has that increased your confidence in the president's leadership?SASSE: You know, frankly, I don't think we do a great job in this country any more of distinguishing between campaigns and governance. We live in an environment that's all campaign all of the time and it's helpful now that we've moved beyond a campaign and an election to get into a governance posture.And my position is this. The president is the president. And every American, regardless of who you voted for, if you voted for Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton, Donald Duck, I don't really care. We should all hope that the president does a good job, that he's surrounded by wise counselors, that he advances U.S. interests.And we should vigorously debate policy differences. We have too much all-or-nothing in American politics. People think if they voted for somebody, they should reflexively defend everything they do or say.And if you voted against somebody, you should just as reflexively oppose everything they do or say. It's not very helpful. What's more constructive for our kids is to go on a case-by-case basis, evaluating particular policies.When the president does something great, like he did in nominating Neil Gorsuch, absolute rock star, I'm going to applaud him and salute it and celebrate it and try to campaign hard for Gorsuch to get confirmed.On the other hand, when there are places where we differ, not just with this president but with future presidents, we should have more vigorous debate. In the American constitutional system of three different branches, conflict -- and I mean by that peaceful, vigorous debate -- it's a feature of our system, not a bug. We need less winner-take-all politics.STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Sasse, thanks for joining us this morning.SASSE: Thanks for being in Nebraska.
02.02.2017	New Law Will Allow the Government Accountability Office to Oversee the Biggest Government Spending Programs President Trump signed the “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017” last night, making it one of the first measures to become law during his administration. The bill, authored by Senator Ben Sasse, would allow government watchdogs to root out fraud and abuse in the federal government’s biggest spending programs. “This law gives the watchdogs at the Government Accountability Office the tools they need. Hard-hitting and honest oversight of Washington’s bureaucracy is part of Congress’ job in our system of checks and balances. Too often, taxpayers foot the bill and assistance goes to the wrong folks when bureaucracies don’t hold up their end of the bargain. I’m grateful that the President signed this common-sense law and that taxpayers now have new tools to expose Washington’s waste and abuse.” Background: The “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017,” introduced by Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), would ensure the Government Accountability Office’s access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers. The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 and contains data on unemployment insurance claims, quarterly wage data, and information on new hires. Ensuring GAO’s access to this important data will help improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like unemployment insurance, disability insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans. A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information until now. This legislation clarifies the intent of Congress to give GAO full access to the data and for the first time will make it possible for GAO to provide robust oversight of these programs. Last March, GAO was unable to comply with Senator Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most. The Sasse bill does three things: First, it clarifies that GAO will have access to federal records in the NDNH. Second, it strengthens GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties. Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee. Last April, Senators Sasse and Tester introduced S. 2849, which passed the Senate Homeland and Governmental Affairs Committee unanimously in September. This year, they reintroduced S. 17 for the 115th Congress. GAO calls this its top legislative priority. S. 17 has been cosponsored by Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT); Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE), Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT), Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Sen. Mike Enzi (R-WY), Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA), Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI), Sen. James Lankford (R-OK), Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT), Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Sen. David Perdue (R-GA), Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID), Sen. Brian Schatz (D-HI), Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Sen. Todd Young (R-IN).
02.01.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the following statement after meeting with President Trump’s Secretary of Agriculture nominee, former Governor Sonny Perdue. Senator Sasse and USDA Secretary nominee Perdue were joined by Nebraska agriculture leaders, including Nebraska Farm Bureau President Steve Nelson, Nebraska Cattlemen President Troy Stowater, and Nebraska Sugarbeet Growers President Kendall Busch. “It’s good to introduce the next Secretary of Agriculture to some of the Nebraskans whose sweat and long hours make us the world’s breadbasket,” said Sasse. “This was a productive conversation with USDA Secretary nominee Perdue. We talked about the unique interests of Midwest agriculture, the importance of trade and export markets, and Nebraska’s role in feeding a growing world.” “I want to thank Senator Sasse for his leadership and work to bring Nebraskans to the table with Governor Perdue,” said Nelson. “We care about trade because we have to expand new markets and opportunities for Nebraska agricultural products. I’m glad we were able to share Nebraska’s unique challenges and opportunities with the President’s nominee for secretary of agriculture." “A huge thank you to Senator Sasse for the work he does for agriculture in our state," said Stowater. "Nebraska Cattlemen strongly supports the nomination of Sonny Perdue to be the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. Governor Perdue understands that trade is vital to the future of the U.S. beef industry. We look forward to helping him expand opportunities for Nebraska’s beef exports with our global trading partners, and we appreciate his steadfast support for our nation’s livestock producers.” “I would like to thank Senator Sasse for his support and leadership,” said Busch. “The sugarbeet growers in western Nebraska are facing trying times. It is important that Senator Sasse and USDA Secretary nominee Sonny Perdue understand the importance of trade and the need to fix the suspension agreements between the U.S. and Mexico. Our growers support a strong farm policy as negotiations being on a new farm bill and look forward to working together with the Secretary.”
01.31.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court. "Neil Gorsuch is a highly-regarded jurist with a record of distinguished service, rooted in respect for the law. He was confirmed unanimously by Democrats and Republicans. Senator Schumer is about to tell Americans that Judge Gorsuch kicks puppies and heckles piano recitals. That’s hogwash. Democrats are working overtime to cast Judge Gorsuch as a reflexive partisan but, as I said when Justice Scalia died, there are no Republican or Democratic seats on the Supreme Court. This shouldn’t be a partisan debate but an opportunity to teach our kids civics. In the coming weeks, everyone who loves the Constitution should celebrate the uniquely American idea that government power must be limited and that those in power must be checked and balanced."
01.28.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding border security and America’s ongoing battle with jihadism. "The President is right to focus attention on the obvious fact that borders matter. At the same time, while not technically a Muslim ban, this order is too broad. There are two ways to lose our generational battle against jihadism by losing touch with reality. The first is to keep pretending that jihadi terrorism has no connection to Islam or to certain countries. That’s been a disaster. And here's the second way to fail: If we send a signal to the Middle East that the U.S. sees all Muslims as jihadis, the terrorist recruiters win by telling kids that America is banning Muslims and that this is America versus one religion. Both approaches are wrong, and both will make us less safe. Our generational fight against jihadism requires wisdom."
01.25.2017	Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance; Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and Federal Courts. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement announcing his chairmanship of two subcommittees that have jurisdiction over national security, trade, and federal oversight issues."This is great news and I’m eager to roll up my sleeves and get to work. These two gavels will help Nebraskans set the agenda on some of our biggest challenges. Between national security priorities and international trade, the Banking subcommittee will shape policy that’s felt at home and abroad. From the Judiciary subcommittee, we can work to rein in runaway Washington agencies and demand critical oversight. These are issues that our state’s farmers, ranchers, innovators, and bankers wrestle with in the real world and now they have a voice on the relevant subcommittees in Congress.”Background: The Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance has jurisdiction over important policy areas including: sanctions, export and foreign trade promotion, international economic policy, international financial and development institutions, the International Trade Administration, and the Bureau of Export Administration. The Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and Federal Courts has jurisdiction over federal agency rulemaking and adjudication, the creation of new courts and judgeships, bankruptcy, legal reform and liability issues, and oversight of the Department of Justice grant programs, as well as government waste and abuse.
01.24.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse reintroduced the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. “Every baby deserves care and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is a rare opportunity to find common ground and protect newborns. We all know that every little boy and girl deserves a fighting chance and, if you’ve ever held a newborn or just walked past a NICU, you know this has nothing to do with your politics and everything to do with your heart. I’m grateful that the House passed this legislation last Congress and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to put this on the President’s desk this Congress.” Reintroduced #BornAlive legislation today, a rare opportunity to find common ground & protect newborns. #prolife pic.twitter.com/VOlCK5FxMm — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 24, 2017 Background:Sasse’s bill, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, would protect newborns that survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. The legislation requires that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. It also requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. Currently federal law does not adequately protect a born child who survives an abortion.Last Congress, the legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 248 to 177. Original co-sponsors of the legislation include Senators Barrasso, Blunt, Boozman, Burr, Cassidy, Cotton, Cruz, Daines, Enzi, Fischer, Graham, Grassley, Inhofe, Johnson, Lankford, McCain, McConnell, Moran, Perdue, Portman, Risch, Roberts, Rubio, Scott, Tillis, and Wicker.
01.23.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement this morning regarding news reports that President Trump will withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership today."It's clear that those of us who believe trade is good for American families have done a terrible job defending trade's historic successes and celebrating its future potential. We have to make the arguments and we have to start now."
01.23.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President Donald Trump's reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy, preventing taxpayer dollars from funding abortion services abroad."Americans are humanitarians and the Mexico City Policy reflects our heartfelt compassion for both moms and babies. Nebraskans, including many families who donate to charities that heal and comfort around the world, shouldn't be forced to export abortions with their tax dollars. We want to support Good Samaritans, not global abortion providers." Americans are humanitarians & the Mexico City Policy reflects our heartfelt compassion for both moms & babies. https://t.co/9XXifR05Qk pic.twitter.com/EItW23JHvO — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 23, 2017
01.20.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm President Donald Trump’s Secretary of Defense, James Mattis. “The Marine Corps' 'warrior monk' is now our Secretary of Defense. Secretary Mattis is the soldier, citizen, and scholar Americans need to tackle our nation’s most pressing security challenges.”
01.20.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding Senate Democrats resistance to confirming President Trump's CIA director, Mike Pompeo."Today’s political drama is both pointless and dangerous. It's pointless because no one doubts that Mike Pompeo is qualified and will be confirmed. Democrats are just debating when. But it's dangerous because the director of the CIA is a must-have member of President Trump's national security team, and President Obama’s CIA director and deputy director both left their jobs this afternoon. Why are we waiting? National security should come before politics."
01.18.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that President-elect Donald Trump will nominate former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue to be Agriculture Secretary. “I look forward to sitting down with Governor Perdue and talking about the unique challenges and opportunities facing Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers. We have a lot to discuss: trade, regulatory burdens, and the unique interests of Midwest agriculture. Nebraskans feed the world and our Agriculture Secretary needs to understand what we bring to the table.”
01.17.2017	Senate and House Pass GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017 Today the Senate passed the “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017,” which will strengthen Congress’ ability to oversee major federal programs. The Sasse-Tester legislation, described by GAO as its top legislative priority, now heads to the President for his signature. U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Jon Tester (D-MT) issued the following statements.“This is a hard-fought victory for taxpayers,” said Sasse. “It’s also a rare, bipartisan victory for common-sense. GAO’s mission is built on the simple fact that Washington is supposed to work for the American people – now, for the first time, these watchdogs will have access to a critical database to make sure that happens. This legislation is headed to the President’s desk and GAO is headed to work.”“This bipartisan bill sheds more light on federal spending and holds government more accountable,” Tester said. “Giving GAO the authority to access the National Directory of New Hires will ensure that the taxpayers’ watchdog can root out overpayments and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse.” Background: The “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016,” introduced by Senators Ben Sasse and Jon Tester, would ensure the Government Accountability Office’s access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers.The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 and contains data on unemployment insurance claims, quarterly wage data, and information on new hires. Ensuring GAO’s access to this important data will help improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like unemployment insurance, disability insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans.A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information until now. This legislation clarifies the intent of Congress to give GAO full access to the data and for the first time will make it possible for GAO to provide robust oversight of these programs.Last March, GAO was unable to comply with Senator Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most.The Sasse-Tester bill does three things: First, it clarifies that GAO will have access to federal records in the NDNH.Second, it strengthens GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties.Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee.Last April, Senators Sasse and Tester introduced S. 2849, which passed the Senate Homeland and Governmental Affairs Committee unanimously in September. This year, they reintroduced S. 17 for the 115th Congress.GAO calls this its top legislative priority.S. 17 has been cosponsored by Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE), Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT), Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Sen. Mike Enzi (R-WY), Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA), Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI), Sen. James Lankford (R-OK), Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT), Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Sen. David Perdue (R-GA), Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID), Sen. Brian Schatz (D-HI), Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Sen. Todd Young (R-IN).
01.12.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Senate voted early this morning to pass a budget that sets up the process to repeal and replace Obamacare."This is about promises: Obamacare broke its promises of lower costs and more choices and today Republicans are making good on our promise to repeal and replace this mess with solutions that put Nebraska families first. This isn't the end of the debate but it is the beginning of the end of Obamacare's top-down central planning."
01.12.2017	Sasse: "Do you believe that the U.S. military has a sophisticated, broadly understood cyber doctrine?"Mattis: "No, I do not believe so." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, thanked retired Marine General James Mattis, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for Secretary of Defense, for his exemplary service and discussed the need for a clear and coherent cyber doctrine. A full transcript of the exchange is found below. Senator Ben Sasse: General, thanks for your past service and your soon to be future service. Could you tell me, do you believe that the U.S. military has a sophisticated, broadly understood cyber doctrine? General James Mattis (Ret.): No, I do not believe so. Sen. Sasse: When will we? Can you unpack for us a little bit of the path toward both an offensive and defensive strategy? Gen. Mattis: Because of the cyber domain, Senator, it is not something the military can do in isolation. This is going to require us to work with Homeland Security and a number of other government elements in order to make certain what we do in the military realm is connected to what they're doing in their realm because cyber cuts across everything we do today. So you can't do something in isolation and that slows down the process. Now I’ve not been part of it up until now, but I anticipate that's part of the reason why I can't give you a positive answer right now. Sen. Sasse: Thank you, sir. I’m one of only five people in the Senate who’s never been a politician before. So I've been here 24 months and over those 24 months, we've consistently heard that we're right around the corner from having a cyber doctrine. Do you think we will in 18 months? Gen. Mattis: Sir, I've got to scope this problem and figure out what are the issues that have caused us not to have an integrated policy right now and especially being this is going to take an integrated effort by the Executive Branch and probably up here on Capitol Hill. There are also, perhaps, privacy concerns, constitutional concerns as part of this, we're going to have to put all of this together and take it one step at a time and come out with what we think we can do quickly and I would hope that part of it can be done faster than 18 months from now. But, this is a very big issue. Sen. Sasse: Thank you. Do you think it is possible that a traditional espionage operation could constitute an act of war? For example, if Russia were to hack and publish U.S. Continuity of Operation plans, would that be an act of war? Gen. Mattis: Senator, I think I would have to study act of war and the ramifications of making that statement. Generally to me, an act of war means we're going to war if it happens. That's a grave decision and I wouldn't put it on automatic pilot. I would make certain we know where we stand, make certain we know what happened, and then you would have to act appropriately. Sen. Sasse: Many of us here are concerned that the public crisis of confidence, the accelerating public distrust, is partly related to the perception that governmental responses in the Executive Branch right now to different foreign hacks are treated differently, partly based on the partisan and political assumptions people make about them. If you look back to the OPM hack 18 months ago, we were told this was a fairly traditional espionage operation. But it seems to me when 22 million, or whatever the exact number is, of Americans who have been serving their government have their information hacked and stolen and potentially leaked, that isn't just traditional espionage operation, and certain uses of that data in the future, we need to countenance what that might mean. Could you tell me, do you believe that the U.S. should be actively deterring these sorts of cyber attacks? And I assume that you’re going to say yes and can you tell us a little bit more about what the doctrine of deterrence looks like in the cyber domain? Gen. Mattis: Senator, the answer is yes, and my personal information was part of that leak. So I understand it-- Sen. Sasse: Mine too. Gen. Mattis: --in rather personal terms. But I would also tell you that we have got to put together a doctrine that works. I have looked at several different doctrines back when I was on active duty. I looked at nuclear warfare doctrine. Mutual assured destruction will not work, by the way. I came to the conclusion that that one was not the right way to go. But we're going to have to come up with the guiding principles for how we're going to deal with this sort of thing and right now I can't give you a good answer. Sen. Sasse: I have only a few seconds left so, in closing could you just tell me a little bit about what you think our human capital pipeline looks like in cyberspace? Are we prepared for the kinds of battles we're going to be facing going forward? Gen. Mattis: Senator, I think we have to get the best possible people in. This is a complex area that requires technical expertise and once we get the policy written, that will help us to guide recruiting and organization and that sort of thing but we've got to get the policy right up front. Sen. Sasse: Thank you, sir.
01.10.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, secured a commitment from President-elect Trump’s Attorney General nominee, Senator Jeff Sessions, to quickly outline enforcement priorities to protect people like Sarah Root who was killed when an illegal alien hit her car in a drunken street racing incident. Ms. Root's killer was allowed to walk free and is currently on ICE's Most Wanted list. “It has been nearly a year since Sarah Root was killed by an illegal alien who escaped custody because the federal government ignored the Omaha Police Department’s request for a detainer," said Sasse. "I am pleased to have secured a commitment from Attorney General nominee, Jeff Sessions, to address this so we can ensure killers like Eswin Mejia face justice." Pleased to have secured a commitment from AG nominee @jeffsessions to address Sarah's case so we can ensure killers like Mejia face justice. pic.twitter.com/ECDrlIb2Tg — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 11, 2017
01.09.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after his meeting with General James Mattis, President-Elect Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Defense. "Respect is earned, and James Mattis has unquestionably earned the respect of our Nation. Our meeting made clear that he will be an honorable, steadfast leader of the men and women serving in and around our military. Even more, I believe he has the intellect and the courage to lead the Department of Defense as it confronts the diverse threats facing our country. It was a privilege meeting with him today and it will be a privilege supporting his nomination."
01.09.2017	Today U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Mike Lee (R-UT) urged the incoming administration to fire the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Richard Cordray. "It's time to fire King Richard," said Sasse, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. "Underneath the CFPB's Orwellian acronym is an attack on the American idea that the people who write our laws are accountable to the American people. President-elect Trump has the authority to remove Mr. Cordray and that's exactly what the American people deserve." “The Constitution was written to protect the American people from unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats,” said Lee. "Considering the damage CFPB has done to credit unions and community banks, President Trump should act quickly to remove the director." The full text of the letter is available below. It's time to fire King Richard. Here's what's wrong with the CFPB: https://t.co/C3taWmm8WX pic.twitter.com/n6IKYiyXbj — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 9, 2017 Dear Vice President-elect Pence,We write to request that promptly after his inauguration President Trump remove Richard Cordray from his position as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB” or “Bureau”).Given the CFPB’s unconstitutional structure, removing Director Cordray would be consistent with President Trump’s oath to “preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States”[1] and his duty to serve as an independent guardian of the U.S. Constitution. Removing Director Cordray would also uphold the American idea of limited government, because Director Cordray has vigorously supported the unconstitutional independence of the CFPB and pursued a regulatory agenda that is harmful to the American people. President Trump Has the Constitutional Authority to Remove Director Cordray The Framers of the Constitution recognized that unrestrained federal power posed a “grave threat to individual liberty” and therefore divided power both vertically (between the federal government and the States) and horizontally (between the legislative, executive, and judicial branches).[2] Over the past 80 years, however, the federal government has blurred the lines between the Executive Branch and Congress by delegating lawmaking authority to agencies, including to a “headless fourth branch” of independent agencies unaccountable to the public or the president.[3] The CFPB is the single-most egregious example of this practice.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) grants the CFPB vague and sweeping authority to regulate large swaths of the economy, including the ill-defined authority to prohibit “abusive acts or practices,”[4] and the authority to impose substantial penalties on individuals and businesses, including money damages, civil monetary penalties, and a range of equitable remedies.[5] Dodd-Frank also provides the CFPB with funding from the Federal Reserve instead of directly from Congress, which limits Congress’ ability to control the Bureau by reducing or eliminating appropriations.[6] Finally, while other independent agencies vest authority in multi-member panels in order to constrain the authority of any single official, the CFPB vests decision-making authority in one person, removable by the president only for cause.[7] As the D.C. Circuit explained, this structure “represents a gross departure from settled historical practice” because “[n]ever before has an independent agency exercising substantial executive authority been headed by just one person.”[8] As a result of the broad authority delegated to the CFPB and its novel structure, aside from the president, the CFPB Director is quite possibly the “single most powerful official in the entire United States Government.”[9] As the D.C. Circuit recently explained in PHH Corp. v. CFPB, the Bureau’s novel structure violates Article II of the Constitution. The court explained that the president generally has “Article II authority to supervise, direct, and remove at will subordinate officers in the Executive Branch,”[10] and although the Supreme Court has identified independent agencies as an exception to that rule, such agencies “have historically been headed by multiple commissioners, directors, or board members who act as checks on one another.”[11] Because the CFPB departs from that established model by vesting authority in a single director instead of a multi-member panel, the D.C. Circuit—in a well-reasoned opinion authored by Judge Kavanaugh—concluded that Dodd-Frank’s restriction on the president’s removal power violated Article II and that the president has the constitutional authority to remove the director at will.[12] The CFPB has vigorously advocated for the right to operate as an unaccountable fourth branch of government, including by petitioning to rehear PHH en banc.[13] It is expected to continue this posture during President Trump’s Administration, despite the President-elect’s likely disagreement.Despite this appeal, the president retains constitutional authority to remove the director until a valid court order says otherwise. Like all government officials, the president is sworn to uphold the Constitution and is not duty-bound to respect unconstitutional statutes.[14] Director Cordray’s Regulatory Agenda Is Harmful to the American People President-elect Trump should remove Director Cordray because he has pursued costly regulatory policies that are radically opposed to the Trump Administration’s pro-growth agenda. Under Director Cordray’s disastrous tenure, the CFPB has repeatedly advanced “unnecessary regulations that kill jobs;” “bloat government;” have an “enormous…impact on our economy, communities and individual Americans from coast to coast;” and have inflicted “profound damage [on] our economy and our freedoms.”[15] In particular, the CFPB has issued regulations that have disproportionately burdened credit unions and community banks;[16]proposed a payday lending rule that could reduce access to credit for average consumers; proposed an arbitration rule based on flawed research;[17] and advanced an overreaching regulatory agenda through enforcement actions instead of rulemakings—circumventing a process designed to provide notice and ensure that divergent perspectives are heard on regulatory issues. Removing Director Cordray Would Uphold American Constitutionalism and the Rule of Law A new CFPB Director could substantially improve regulatory policy at the CFPB, but working toward a more accountable CFPB is about much more than that. It’s about American constitutionalism and the rule of law. Our founders believed that government power is limited and exists to protect the rights of the people. By contrast, the CFPB’s structure is based on the idea that government is unlimited and rights are dependent on the special dispensation of the experts who know better than the American people. President Trump has the power to protect the American idea from this destructive view by removing Director Cordray. Director Cordray’s removal will be the first marker in the long process of rolling-back an agency that combines the powers of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches into the hands of a few unaccountable Washington elites.Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,Senator Ben Sasse Senator Mike Lee [1] U.S. Const., Art. II, Sec. 1. [2] PHH Corp. v. CFPB, No. 15-1177, Slip op. at 3 (D.C. Cir. Oct. 11, 2016). [3] Id. at 4. [4] 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(B). [5] Id. § 5565(a)(2). [6] 12 U.S.C. §5497. [7] Specifically, the CFPB director is removable due to “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.” See 12 U.S.C. § 5491(c)(3). [8] PHH Corp., at 9. [9] Id. at 27. [10] U.S. Const., Art. II, Sec. 3. [11] PHH Corp. v. CFPB, No. 15-1177, at 4 (D.C. Cir. Oct. 11, 2016) (emphasis in original). [12] Id. at 9-10. [13] Dodd-Frank grants the CFPB independent litigation authority unless and until a case reaches the Supreme Court. The D.C. Circuit has nonetheless asked for the views of the Solicitor General in considering whether to grant rehearing en banc. If the D.C. Circuit grants rehearing, we urge you to ask the Solicitor General not to defend the CFPB’s structure, either in an amicus brief before the D.C. Circuit or before the Supreme Court. [14] See, e.g., Walter Dellinger, Presidential Authority to Decline to Execute Unconstitutional Statutes, Office of Legal Counsel memorandum (Nov. 1994), available at https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/olc/opinions/1994/11/31/op-olc-v018-p0199_0.pdf (“The President has enhanced responsibility to resist unconstitutional provisions that encroach upon the constitutional powers of the Presidency.”). [15] Regulatory Reform, GreatAgain.gov, https://www.greatagain.gov/policy/regulatory-reform.html. [16] See, e.g., Testimony of Todd Zywicki before the Senate Banking Committee, April 5, 2016,available at http://www.banking.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/58bb96f4-8268-4ecd-95dd-5e35f8d26e4a/060C9C587736B1F08DD0A117FC3EE8B6.zywicki-testimony-4-5-16.pdf; see also Tanya Marsh and Joseph Norman, The Impact of Dodd-Frank on Community Banks, AEI Policy Paper (May 2013), available at http://images.politico.com/global/2013/05/06/2013-05_marsh-norman.html; Hester Peirce, Ian Robinson, and Thomas Stratmann, How Are Small Banks Faring Under Dodd-Frank, Mercatus Working Paper (February 2014), available at https://www.mercatus.org/system/files/Peirce_SmallBankSurvey_v1.pdf. [17] See Jason Scott Johnston and Todd Zywicki, The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Arbitration Study: A Summary and Critique, Mercatus Working Paper (Aug. 2015), available at https://www.mercatus.org/system/files/Johnston-CFPB-Arbitration.pdf.
01.06.2017	“If politicians turn the IC’s report into a Red vs. Blue shouting match, Putin gets a free pass.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Intelligence Community’s unclassified report on Russian hacking. “If politicians turn the IC’s report into a Red vs. Blue shouting match, Putin gets a free pass. Moscow’s influence operations are aimed at undermining confidence in self-government and that’s an attack on who we are, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as free people. Instead of another round of Trump vs. Clinton, we need to debate a strong menu of responses that use all elements of national power - robust sanctions, diplomatic hardball, and other measures that upend Putin’s calculus.” If politicians turn the IC’s report into a Red vs. Blue shouting match, Putin gets a free pass. https://t.co/2vCnUq45vV pic.twitter.com/48aMVDy2j1 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) January 6, 2017
01.05.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after his meeting with President-Elect Trump's nominee for the EPA, Scott Pruitt. "I had a productive meeting with Mr. Pruitt who will be a friend of Nebraska agriculture and a stalwart champion of Federalism and the rule of law. I thanked Mr. Pruitt for his fight against the EPA's unconstitutional Waters of the United States rule and was encouraged by his forceful defense of lawmaking by the people’s representatives in Congress."
01.04.2017	Today the House of Representatives passed the “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017.” The legislation, originally introduced by Senator Ben Sasse, would strengthen Congress’ ability to oversee major federal programs.“Because the watchdogs at GAO are supposed to work for Nebraskans by exposing Washington waste and fraud, it only makes sense for them to access a critical database. This has been a long fight and I'm grateful that one of the first acts of the new Congress is moving this common-sense solution one step closer to the President’s desk.”Background: The “GAO Access and Oversight Act” was originally introduced by Senator Ben Sasse and would ensure the Government Accountability Office’s access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers.Last year, the bill passed both the House of Representatives and the Senate Homeland and Governmental Affairs Committee unanimously. The process needed to be restarted in the new 115th Congress which began this week.The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 and contains data on unemployment insurance claims, quarterly wage data and information on new hires. Ensuring GAO’s access to this important data will help improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like unemployment insurance, disability insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans.A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information until now. This legislation clarifies the intent of Congress to give GAO full access to the data and for the first time will make it possible for GAO to provide robust oversight of these programs.Last March, GAO was unable to comply with Senator Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most.The bill does three things: First, it clarifies that GAO will have access to federal records in the NDNH.Second, it strengthens GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties.Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee.
01.03.2017	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) will serve on the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, the Senate Committee on Armed Services, and the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs in the 115thCongress which began today. “I’ve been asked to serve on these important committees and I’m honored to do everything in my power to make sure Nebraskans help set the federal government’s course with common sense and integrity,” said Senator Sasse. “Nebraskans know that defending our Constitution means fighting for Supreme Court justices who reject ‘pen and phone’ theories of executive unilateralism—that’s exactly what I’ll be working on in the Judiciary Committee. We also know that Washington isn’t prepared for the national security challenges of the age of cyberwarfare and global jihad—that will be my constant focus on the Armed Services Committee.” Background: The Senate Committee on the Judiciary plays Congress’ central role in the consideration of Supreme Court nominations and all other judicial nominations. The committee is also charged with providing oversight of the Department of Justice, including the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security. Constitutional amendments, immigration policy, and criminal law all fall under the jurisdiction of the committee. The Senate Committee on Armed Services has jurisdiction over issues regarding the “common defense,” the federal government’s first and foremost duty. The committee has jurisdiction over issues relating to cybersecurity and military research and development. Members of the committee are charged with providing oversight of the Department of Defense, the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force. The Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs oversees essential elements of the federal government’s economic policy, with jurisdiction over trade, banking, insurance, housing, and finance policies.
12.29.2016	US Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin and proponent for strong American cybersecurity, issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration's response to Russian hacks."Too little, too late: these meager steps will not decisively change Putin's calculation that his aggressions are worth the risk. A year ago, the Administration should have led a comprehensive review of our offensive and defensive cyber doctrines, instead of offering media-driven spin. We cannot afford to be in the same place a year from now -- our adversaries must be deterred by knowing that cyber attacks will be met with swift and decisive responses."
12.27.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President-elect Donald Trump's naming of Thomas Bossert as his chief adviser on homeland security, counterterrorism, and cybersecurity."As hacks from Russia and China make clear, cybersecurity is national security. Washington isn't prepared for these new challenges and we need a complete review of both our offensive and defensive cyber-doctrines. There's tough work ahead and Mr. Bossert has an important role in protecting Americans from new threats."
12.24.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration's decision to abstain from a UN Security Council vote on Israeli settlements. "This administration is determined to lead from behind until the very end. The decision to oppose our ally Israel is a sad but unsurprising end to eight years of flawed foreign policy."
12.16.2016	“Blaming journalists for coverage and mere scolding of dictators for cyberattacks isn’t a winning strategy.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s comments on cybersecurity in his final 2016 press conference today. “Blaming journalists for coverage and mere scolding of dictators for cyberattacks isn’t a winning strategy. Instead of President Obama’s vague ‘we can do stuff,’ Congress should debate upending Putin’s calculus with a full menu of diplomatic, economic, military, and cyber responses. This isn’t new: China’s OPM hack and Russia’s aggressions make it clear our adversaries think these attacks are low-cost, high-reward gambles.”
12.12.2016	The U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Open, Public, Electronic and Necessary (OPEN) Government Data Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i). The bipartisan bill will require public data to be accessible at Data.gov so individuals, organizations, and other government offices can utilize it.“I'm proud to work across the aisle with Senator Schatz to bring a 21st century solution to this city's antiquated, 20th century approach to data,” said Senator Sasse. “Because transparency keeps Washington accountable to the people, government data should be made public unless an administration makes a compelling reason not to. After passing the Senate with bipartisan support, we have momentum to carry this important work into the new year.” “Public information belongs to the public, and it’s the government’s job to make sure that data is available and easily accessible in today’s ever-changing digital world,” said Senator Schatz. “I thank Senator Sasse for working with me to get this through the Senate, and I look forward to continuing our work in the next Congress.” The OPEN Government Data Act would require, by default, the data included at Data.gov to be machine-readable format to make it accessible to anyone and easily searchable. It also protects privacy and national security information when making federal government data available to the public while requiring federal agencies use it to improve decision-making.“The passage of the OPEN Government Data Act marks another milestone in the open data movement,” said Hudson Hollister, Executive Director of the Data Coalition. “This bill builds on open data reforms such as the DATA Act. Our Coalition and the emerging open data industry thank Senators Sasse and Schatz for their leadership.”Supporters of the legislation include: the Sunlight Foundation, the Data Coalition, Center for Data Innovation, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Taxpayers for Common Sense, and BSA/The Software Alliance. Proud to work with @SenBrianSchatz to bring a 21st century solution to this city's 20th century approach to data.? https://t.co/EwmxPekwWJ pic.twitter.com/h9i5QCUC8f — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) December 12, 2016
12.08.2016	“Congress set aside unnecessary culture wars and focused on equipping our servicemen and women with the tools they need to win the wars we’re in.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who successfully led the effort to stop Congress from needlessly mingling culture wars and national security by requiring women to register for the draft, applauded passage of the final 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. “I’m encouraged that Congress set aside unnecessary culture wars and focused on equipping our servicemen and women with the tools they need to win the wars we’re in," said Sasse. “The debate about drafting our mothers, sisters, and daughters was completely unnecessary and antiquated - unnecessary because none of our top military leaders say we need to abandon our all-volunteer force and antiquated because we don’t fight wars of attrition that require the draft. This was a victory for common sense.”In September, Sasse led a group of 17 Senators in demanding that negotiators keep this unnecessary culture war out of the defense bill. Text of that letter is available here.Today, Congress passed legislation that does not require women to register for the draft and, instead, requires a study on the draft, similar to an amendment Sasse offered in June. The "Draft Our Daughters" debate was completely unnecessary. #NDAA is a victory for common sense. https://t.co/p3AFDsCaqO pic.twitter.com/qQW42Wi5oe — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) December 8, 2016
12.02.2016	“Instead of developing a strategy to win the wars we’re in, the outgoing Administration is focused on scoring points in their culture wars.” Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Ben Sasse responded to the White House’s announced support for requiring women to register for the draft, urging President Obama not to complicate the upcoming National Defense Authorization Act over unnecessary culture wars. “This would be a sadly fitting end to eight years of foreign policy failures: Instead of developing a strategy to win the wars we’re in, the outgoing Administration is focused on scoring points in their culture wars. It would be wrong and so completely unnecessary to let this new position interfere with the defense bill Congress is about to pass.”Background:In September, Sasse led a group of 17 Senators in demanding that negotiators keep this unnecessary culture war out of the defense bill. Text of that letter is available here. The final 2017 National Defense Authorization Act does not require women to register for the draft and instead calls for studying the necessity of the draft itself, a provision similar to an amendment offered by Sasse in June.
12.01.2016	Optional “Iran is still the largest state-sponsor of terror, still bent on the destruction of Israel, and still working to undermine America’s interests in a peaceful Middle East.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken critic of the Iran nuclear deal, issued the following statement regarding the Iran Sanctions Extension Act which passed the Senate and now heads to the President for his signature.“The Obama Administration’s nuclear deal hasn’t changed who we’re dealing with – Iran is still the largest state-sponsor of terror, still bent on the destruction of Israel, and still working to undermine America’s interests in a peaceful Middle East. Extending these sanctions is an important requirement to holding Iran accountable.” The Obama Administration’s nuclear deal hasn’t changed who we’re dealing with. #Iran https://t.co/M3CZOnMheD pic.twitter.com/d5ikHgx61R — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) December 1, 2016 Background:The Iran Sanctions Extension Act, which now heads to the President for his signature, renews existing sanctions that were set to expire at the end of 2016. These sanctions, separate from the Administration’s nuclear agreement with Iran, are aimed at preventing Iran from supporting terrorism.
11.29.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who led the effort to stop Congress from needlessly mingling culture wars and national security, applauded House and Senate negotiators for excluding a provision requiring women to register for the draft in the final 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. In September, Sasse led a group of 17 Senators in demanding that negotiators keep this unnecessary culture war out of the defense bill. Text of that letter is available here. Keeping our defenses strong is more important than needlessly scoring points on divisive issues. #NDAA https://t.co/rTJ5xNkkZ7 pic.twitter.com/azQybdsZoY — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) November 30, 2016 "Defense bills are common in Washington but, this year, the big story is that both sides will put national security ahead of unnecessary culture-warring," said Sasse. "This is a victory for common sense. It’s encouraging to see Congress do its work instead of jumping into a fight about drafting our mothers, sisters, and daughters when the military isn’t demanding an end to our all-volunteer fighting-force. Republicans and Democrats should be able to agree that keeping our defenses strong is more important than needlessly scoring points on divisive issues." Today, negotiators unveiled legislation that does not require women to register for the draft and, instead, requires the Pentagon to undertake a study on whether a draft is even still needed. This is similar to an amendment Sasse offered in June.
11.21.2016	On Friday, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse delivered the Federalist Society's 2016 Barbara K. Olson Memorial Lecture. Discussing the American idea of limited government, Sasse reminded conservatives that "when people stand up against power and they disagreed with that power, no one’s surprised. They all expected that. What’s glorious is when people believe in limited government and restraint, when we are the ones in power. And we now have the opportunity to model that restraint."
11.18.2016	HHS Slush Fund Elimination Act Prevents Judgment Fund Settlements with Big Insurers In an effort to prevent illegal bailouts for health insurers under the Affordable Care Act’s risk programs, Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), joined by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Barrasso (R-WY) and Mike Lee (R-UT), introduced the “HHS Slush Fund Elimination Act.”"We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare but, in the meantime, the last thing Americans need is for the Obama Administration to sneak in one last bailout on its way out the door," Sasse said. "This is simple: the law is the law and no administration can make up new rules when they don’t like the laws.""Repealing and replacing ObamaCare is a top priority in the coming months, but one of the biggest battles we face right now is stopping the Obama Administration from ignoring and using billions in taxpayer dollars to bail out health insurance companies," Rubio said. "The American people are paying too much for health insurance already, and they shouldn’t be forced to fork over even more of their paychecks to corporations that embraced a flawed health care law. This legislation would stop the administration from squandering taxpayer dollars and help clear the way for real reform that makes health care more affordable for workers and families.""Families have paid too high a price for the failures of Obamacare," Barrasso said. "Skyrocketing premiums and fewer choices are among the reasons why the nation will have new leadership in January. With the end of the law in sight, Congress must do everything possible to prevent additional taxpayer dollars from being illegally spent behind the backs of the American people." "The Obama administration has unilaterally re-written the Affordable Care Act numerous times in an attempt to save it from collapsing on itself," Lee said. "Recently, the administration also tried to circumvent the will of Congress by engaging in fiscal hijinks in an attempt to bail out insurers who have lost money thanks to Obamacare. This bill prohibits the Administration from doing so, and it is a good start towards keeping our promise to the American people to repeal this misguided law." "@SenSasse, @SenRubioPress, @SenJohnBarrasso, @SenMikeLee introduce bill to prevent illegal #Obamacare bailouts": https://t.co/hC8bFJzyzK pic.twitter.com/Xj2eaNPM24 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) November 18, 2016 Background: The “HHS Slush Fund Elimination Act” would prohibit the government from using the Judgment Fund, or any other federal funds, to pay any final judgment, award or settlement compromise related to any lawsuits related to the ACA’s risk programs. Congress has twice acted to ensure that any payments to insurers through the risk-corridor program be made in a revenue-neutral manner, meaning funds from outside the program may not be used. President Obama signed this into law. Despite this clear requirement, 14 insurers are currently suing the government for more in payments than the program has generated. In September, HHS signaled the government would be willing to consider settling those claims using funds from outside the program.This past January, the Congressional Research Service responded to a request from Senator Rubio and issued a legal opinion finding it would be illegal to use the Judgment Fund to settle such claims. However, there is concern the Obama Administration may still attempt to use the Judgment Fund for this purpose.In September, Senators Sasse, Rubio, Barrasso and Lee wrote to HHS and DOJ demanding answers from HHS and DOJ about how it would settle these claims and where it would find the funds.
11.09.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement: "On Tuesday, America demanded disruption. My family and I congratulate President-Elect Trump on his decisive victory, and we pray that he will lead wisely and faithfully keep his oath to a Constitution of limited government. Starting today, I will do everything in my power to hold the President to his promises: to fight for an ethics reform package that upends cronyism and enacts term limits; to lead on repealing and replacing ObamaCare; and to nominate judges who reject law-making by unelected courts. Melissa and I wish the new First Family the best in the coming transition."
10.24.2016	"We’ve reached this point because Obamacare is built on the lie that Washington’s bureaucrats are smart enough to plan health care for millions of Americans." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who earlier this year authored a report on the lack of competition on Obamacare’s exchanges, issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s confirmation today that Obamacare premiums will increase by an average of 25 percent next year. "We’ve reached this point because Obamacare is built on the lie that Washington’s bureaucrats are smart enough to plan health care for millions of Americans. At every turn—whether it’s CO-OPs collapsing, premiums skyrocketing, or big insurers bailing—the American people have paid the price. More spin won’t solve this—it’s time for the White House to admit that this law isn’t working." More spin won’t solve this: https://t.co/9tzkaBg2IG It’s time for the White House to admit that #Obamacare isn’t working. pic.twitter.com/zh0MZg0iSg — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) October 24, 2016
10.21.2016	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse responded to President Obama who claimed yesterday that the "fuss" over Obamacare is because "a Democratic president named Barack Obama passed the law. That's just the truth." "That’s just nonsense. There’s a ‘fuss’ about Obamacare because it’s a disastrous failure. There’s a ‘fuss’ because millions of families have already lost their plans and millions more will this year. There’s a ‘fuss’ because premiums have gone through the roof. There’s a ‘fuss’ because more than half of the CO-OPs failed and now big insurance companies are scrambling for the exit. There’s a ‘fuss’ because even Democrats know it’s ‘crazy.’ Obamacare’s problem isn’t the politics, Mr. President—it’s the facts."
10.19.2016	"Respectfully, Minority Leader Pelosi, those checks and balances are what separate our job as lawmakers from punditry or blind political cheerleading." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement, rejecting House Minority Leader’s assertion at a press conference today that “checks and balances” is merely Republican "code" for “obstruction.”"Respectfully, Minority Leader Pelosi, those checks and balances are what separate our job as lawmakers from punditry or blind political cheerleading. Checks and balances aren’t code, they’re what give our constituents—the American people—a voice in a city full of unelected bureaucrats. They are profoundly important for Americans of every walk of life."
10.17.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who on September 14 asked the Director of National Intelligence James Clapper for a formal damage assessment, issued the following statement today after the release of new documents regarding the FBI’s investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email server. According to those documents, the State Department “pressured” the FBI to downgrade the classification of one email as part of a “quid pro quo.” “From start to finish, Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information and the State Department’s pressuring of the FBI to hide that mishandling does nothing but reinforce the perception of a double standard and a broken investigation,” said Senator Sasse. “As I wrote to the Director of National Intelligence last month, Washington’s malpractice risks tarring the IC with accusations of partisanship or incompetence. I want to believe both critiques are wrong but today’s news is deeply troubling.”
10.13.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement, condemning the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for passing an anti-Israel resolution denying Judaism’s connection to the Temple Mount."This insanity shows that Israel’s adversaries are willing to go to any lengths to denigrate our ally. Is it any wonder that the United Nations cannot broker a real solution? Not only does the UN pretend that there is moral equivalency between Israeli citizens and Palestinian terrorists,UNESCO goes out of its way to insult Israel."
10.07.2016	"Today was just the first step—Russia must face serious consequences." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee who has been outspoken on Russia's recent aggression, issued the following statement after the Obama Administration publicly accused Russia of hacking the Democratic National Committee and others. "Today was just the first step—Russia must face serious consequences. Moscow orchestrated these hacks because Putin believes Soviet-style aggression is worth it. The United States must upend Putin's calculus with a strong diplomatic, political, cyber, and economic response."
10.03.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the news that U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry suspended talks with Russia over the situation in Syria. In July, Sasse warned that “Russia is not a credible partner.” “Experience is an expensive teacher and this Administration is paying a high cost for learning what many already knew: Russia is not a credible partner in Syria. Is anyone surprised by this news? Moscow's primary goal in Syria — preserving the Assad regime — is fundamentally opposed to our objectives."
09.29.2016	"This is a victory for public trust, congressional oversight, and most importantly the veterans who served our country." Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after President Barack Obama signed his Veterans Affairs oversight and accountability legislation into law. "Silencing whistleblowers is unacceptable. Starting now, the VA—a department that has an appalling history of scandals and cover-ups—cannot hide its failures behind gag orders disguised as separation agreements. This is a victory for public trust, congressional oversight, and most importantly the veterans who served our country." This is a victory for public trust, congressional oversight & most importantly the #veterans who served our country: https://t.co/1rpvNYaC1I pic.twitter.com/28yCH13xDs — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 29, 2016 Background:On May 19, Sasse’s legislation was first passed by the Senate. Today, it was included in the short-term continuing resolution that President Obama signed into law this afternoon. The text of the legislation is simple: “SEC. 256. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this title may be used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into an agreement related to resolving a dispute or claim with an individual that would restrict in any way the individual from speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any topic not otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law or required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.”In May, Sasse demanded answers from VA Secretary Robert McDonald about why his department attempted to strip a former employee of her constitutional right to speak with Congress, and whether this kind of action was routine business at the VA.Sasse’s letter is found below: May 11, 2016Dear Secretary McDonald: I would like your help understanding why the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) entered into a settlement agreement with a former employee that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) called a “gag order” that violated an individual’s constitutional rights.A recent decision by the EEOC[1] in the case of Aurore v. McDonald raised serious questions about whether the Department of Veterans Affairs undermined the constitutional rights of an employee seeking relief in a case of discrimination, and then retaliated against her when she tried to find a new job. The case involved a woman who worked as a nurse at the VA Puget Sound facility in Seattle, Washington, and believed she was the victim of discrimination. After making her allegations, she entered into a settlement with your department. While the facts of her discrimination case remain sealed, a number of details related to her settlement with the VA have since been made public.One alarming provision of the settlement agreement went so far as to prohibit the woman from talking with any member of Congress or the media. It read:(3.5) Confidentiality: Neither Complainant nor the Agency will disclose this Settlement Agreement or its terms, with the following exceptions: (1) to authorized VA, EEO, ORM, EEOC, or other officials responsible for implementing the Agreement . It should be understood that Complainant shall be prohibited from making any complaints or negative comments to any member of Congress or their staff, or any newspapers or media or their staff, or any other public forums, about the facts of this Settlement Agreement or the facts or conditions that led up to this Settlement Agreement. (original emphasis)[2] It is my understanding that provisions like this are extremely unusual. So unusual, in fact, that the EEOC not only took the step of rendering what it referred to as a “gag order” null and void, but also rebuked the VA for including it in the first place. In its opinion, the EEOC said,“We view this provision as an unlawful, overly restrictive confidentiality limitation, because it expressly deprives Complainant of her ability to contact Congress and otherwise limits her First Amendment Rights to communicate with the media about any of her EEO claims.” (emphasis added) Adding insult to injury, the EEOC noted, after the VA issued this “unlawful” gag order it failed to abide by the order itself. After the woman was offered a new job in California, her former employer at the VA in Seattle revealed confidential information about the settlement agreement to the prospective employer. The prospective employer then rescinded the job offer.How could anyone at the VA ever believe it was right or fair to prohibit one of their own employees not only from talking with the media, but also from contacting her representatives in Congress? However, to put this requirement in place and then retaliate against the woman by breaking the agreement is deeply troubling.Every constitutional officer - including the Secretary of Veterans Affairs - has a duty to protect the Constitution. The oath we have both taken request that we defend all five freedoms listed in the First Amendment: religion, speech, the press, assembly and petition. The gag order in place by the VA failed to ensure these freedoms were protected.To help me understand the circumstances surrounding this situation, please provide answers to the following questions:1. Do you believe it was appropriate for the VA to include a provision prohibiting the claimant from exercising her First Amendment rights?2. Why did the VA include a provision in the settlement agreement prohibiting the claimant from speaking with Congress and the media?3. Who is the highest ranking official at the VA that approved the settlement agreement entered into on January 7, 2013?4. Has the VA ever entered into any other settlement agreement that contained a provision prohibiting one of the parties from speaking to Congress or the media? If so, please explain when, how many times and provide the exact language included in the agreement.5. In light of the EEOC’s decision in Aurore v. McDonald, will VA policy be changed to ensure future settlement agreements do not unlawfully restrict an individual’s constitutional rights? If so, please explain and provide a copy of the new policy.I look forward to your response. Please direct any questions you have to Chris Barkley with my office, who can be reached at (202) 224-4224. Sincerely, Ben Sasse
09.29.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, the author of the “Taxpayers Before Insurers Act,”issued the following statement after the Government Accounting Office (GAO) issued a new legal opinion siding against The Department of Health and Human Services’ implementation of Obamacare’s reinsurance program. "GAO's new legal opinion is simple: the law is the law and HHS broke it,” said Sasse. “Washington has been running a textbook, crony scheme: cutting checks to big insurance companies that can afford lobbyists instead of giving taxpayers the $5 billion they’re owed. Congress must put taxpayers ahead of insurance companies.” Background: Today, the GAO issued a new legal opinion, concluding “that HHS lacks authority to ignore the statute’s directive to deposit amounts from collections under the transitional reinsurance program in the Treasury and instead make deposits to the Treasury only if its collections reach the amounts for reinsurance payments specified in section 1341. This prioritization of collections for payments to issuers over payments to the Treasury is not authorized.” (Emphasis added.)Like the Affordable Care Act’s risk corridor program, the reinsurance program is designed to protect big insurance companies. The law requires the Secretary of HHS to deposit $5 billion total from 2014-2016 to Treasury through the reinsurance program. Rather than make those deposits to the Treasury, HHS has decided to prioritize payments to insurance companies.Ignoring the clear text of the law, HHS has prioritized payments to insurance companies rather than payments to the Treasury: In 2014, the Treasury should have received $2 billion in general fund payments but received nothing even though HHS sent insurance companies the full $8 billion in reinsurance payments they requested. HHS also carried over another $1.7 billion to give insurance companies later. For 2015, HHS said they would give Treasury only $500 million of the $2 billion it should receive but insurers will receive a $7.7 billion payout ($6 billion for 2015 plus the $1.7 billion carried over from 2014). In April, Senator Sasse introduced the “Taxpayers Before Insurers Act.” This legislation would slash 50 percent of HHS’ general departmental management fund unless the Secretary of HHS pays the full amount taxpayers are owed.
09.26.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the announcement that UNO Chancellor John Christensen will retire in June 2017. "For ten years, John has served Nebraskans with humility and graciousness. He has the thanks and warm wishes of our family and the entire UNO community as he begins the next chapter of life."
09.23.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement regarding the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals’ ruling against the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) new anhydrous ammonia storage regulations. “Nebraska farmers and ranchers didn’t elect any of the bureaucrats at OSHA. That’s why this ruling is an encouraging step to restore common sense and the separation of powers.”
09.23.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that Blue Cross Blue Shield, the state’s largest insurer, will be forced to exit Nebraska’s Obamacare exchange, driving approximately 20,000 Nebraskans off their current plans."Obamacare is bleeding Nebraskans. Enough is enough. This isn’t a political statement but an undeniable fact: Obamacare is failing. Nebraska families have suffered the Co-Oportunity failure, the unfortunate exits of UnitedHealth and now Blue Cross Blue Shield, and even those whose plans haven’t failed have seen rotten premium increases. This law isn’t working for Nebraska families." #Obamacare is bleeding Nebraskans. Another ~20,000 are about to be driven off their current plans. Enough is enough. https://t.co/7di9dOQvWh pic.twitter.com/SVoMBtUPHh — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 23, 2016
09.23.2016	Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) joined a bipartisan, bicameral letter, led by Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Congressman Diane Black (R-TN), to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell expressing opposition to the Department’s new proposed rule to amend regulations implementing the Title X Family Planning Program. “HHS’ proposed rule is a backdoor mandate to force states into sending tax dollars to abortion providers,” said Senator Sasse. “Disagreement over abortion will often be heated but folks acting in good faith should agree that government shouldn’t force taxpayers to subsidize abortion and that unelected federal bureaucrats shouldn’t overrule the voters in the fifty states.”The letter questions HHS’ assertion that providers with a reproductive health focus are more “effective” than other health care providers which offer more comprehensive care for women and men. This dubious claim, if pushed through, would all but establish a nationwide mandate that these more narrow providers receive priority for the receipt of Title X subawards - at the expense of other entities like comprehensive primary care providers and community health centers.In the letter to Secretary Burwell, the lawmakers stated, “If HHS cannot clearly define an ‘effective’ or ‘high quality’ provider, it is unclear to us how state and local project grantees are supposed to do so in order to comply with this proposed rule. It is also therefore unclear how HHS will be able to determine in every case whether state or local project recipients – who are generally closer to and more familiar with subrecipients and the patient base in their geographical region – have considered inappropriate criteria in evaluating subrecipients. Rarely do the American people benefit when the federal government attempts to substitute its judgment for that of state or local governments – particularly when the criteria used to inform that judgment are unclear, and that judgment is not supported by coherent and impartial facts.”The letter was also sent by Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Deb Fischer (R-NE), James Inhofe (R-OK), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), David Vitter (R-LA). In addition, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Rick Allen (R-GA), Brian Babin (R-TX), Lou Barletta (R-PA), Andy Barr (R-KY), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Charles Boustany, Jr. (R-LA), Kevin Brady (R-TX), Michael Burgess (R-TX), Earl “Buddy” Carter (R-GA), Tom Cole (R-OK), Chris Collins (R-NY), Doug Collins (R-GA), Mike Conaway (R-TX), Ron DeSantis (R-FL), Scott DesJarlais (R-TN), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), John Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), Stephen Fincher (R-TN), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), John Fleming, (R-LA), Bill Flores (R-TX), Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Tom Graves (R-GA), Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Andy Harris (R-MD), Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Jody Hice (R-GA), Tim Huelskamp (R-KS), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Sam Johnson (R-TX), Walter Jones (R-NC), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Trent Kelly (R-MS), Steve King (R-IA), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Robert E. Latta (R-OH), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Mia Love (R-UT), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Kenny Marchant (R-TX), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), Randy Neugebauer (R-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Gary Palmer (AL), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Joe Pitts (R-PA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Bill Posey (R-FL), Tom Price (R-GA), John Ratcliffe (R-TX), Martha Roby (R-AL), Phil Roe (R-TN), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Keith Rothfus (R-PA), David Rouzer (R-NC), Steve Scalise (R-LA), Austin Scott (R-GA), James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI), Pete Sessions (R-TX), John Shimkus (R-IL), Adrian Smith (R-NE), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Ann Wagner (R-MO), Tim Walberg (R-MI), Randy Weber (R-TX), Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Joe Wilson (R-SC), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), and Ted Yoho (R-FL) signed the letter. Read the full letter below or by clicking here. Dear Secretary Burwell, We write to express our strong opposition to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) September 7, 2016, notice of proposed rulemaking titled “Compliance with Title X Requirements by Project Recipients in Selecting Subrecipients.” Although we appreciate the Department’s intent to follow proper regulatory procedure pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act, HHS’s purpose for engaging in the rulemaking appears on its face to be an attempt to subvert the will of elected representatives. Moreover, apart from the Department’s impetus for the notice of proposed rulemaking, we also question whether the Department’s stated rationale adequately supports its conclusion that providers with a reproductive health focus are more “effective” than other health providers that offer comprehensive care for women and men. Nowhere in the proposed notice of rulemaking does HHS clearly define what it means to provide Title X services in an “effective” manner. It does appear to assert that a number of factors – such as the range of contraceptive methods on-site, the number of clients in need of publicly funded family planning services served, and the availability of preconception care – distinguish providers with a reproductive health focus as more “effective” and “high quality” than other types of providers. However, that list of factors falls far short of all of the attributes and recommendations included in the Centers for Disease Control and Office of Population Affairs report entitled “Providing Quality Family Planning Services: Recommendations of CDC and the US Office of Population Affairs.” To further complicate the argument about quality and effectiveness, the data cited in the notice of proposed rulemaking is not adequate for determining patient outcomes. The Department relies heavily on utilization and demographic statistics, but appears to lack hard data regarding actual patient outcomes and need, as the Department does not require grantees to track patients or verify their income. As you know, the issue of inadequate data has previously been raised by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), after the HHS Office of Family Planning in 2007 asked IOM to provide a critical review of the Title X Family Planning Program. In addition to finding “no clear, evidence-based process for establishing or revising program priorities and guidelines,” IOM stated the following in its May 2009 Report Brief: “The committee concludes that the program does not collect all the data needed to monitor and evaluate its impact. Therefore, the committee proposes a comprehensive framework to evaluate the program and assess how well clinics meet the family planning needs of the program’s clients. The committee concludes that additional data will be needed in the areas of client needs, structure, process, and outcomes in order to assess the program’s overall progress.” We welcome evidence that this recommendation has been fully adopted, but are unaware of any clear evidence confirming that to be the case. If HHS cannot clearly define an “effective” or “high quality” provider, it is unclear to us how state and local project grantees are supposed to do so in order to comply with this proposed rule. It is also therefore unclear how HHS will be able to accurately determine in every case whether state or local project recipients – who are generally closer to and more familiar with subrecipients and the patient base in their geographical region – have considered inappropriate criteria in evaluating subrecipients. Rarely do the American people benefit when the federal government attempts to substitute its judgment for that of state or local governments – particularly when the criteria used to inform that judgment are unclear, and that judgment is not supported by coherent and impartial facts. Finally, if HHS is going to assert the authority to adapt its rules in order to address changing circumstances, we implore HHS to consider the recent general shift in health care policy toward comprehensive care. As HHS states on its website, in addition to assisting individuals and couples in planning and spacing births, part of the mission of Title X is to contribute to “improved health for women and infants.” HHS’s suggestion that subrecipients like federally qualified health centers – which provide greater preventive and primary health care services than providers with a reproductive health focus – are per se less “effective” than providers with a reproductive health focus does not comport with that stated mission. We urge HHS to reconsider this overreaching and ill-supported rule. We will continue to closely monitor this proposed rulemaking, and intend to submit this letter as a formal comment. We look forward to a detailed response from your Department. Sincerely,
09.20.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed companion legislation to his GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016 by an overwhelming and bipartisan vote of 404-0. In May, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee voted unanimously to advance the bill to the full Senate.“Like we’ve said from the beginning, this is common-sense stuff that both Republicans and Democrats can agree on: let the watchdogs do their job. I’m grateful for members of the Government Oversight and Reform Committee and House leadership for moving this forward. We’re one step closer to making sure that GAO can access this critical data to protect the taxpayers’ bottom line. Everyone knows that there’s fraud in Washington’s bureaucracy—this is an important way to tackle it so that Nebraskans don’t foot the bill.” Background: Tonight the House of Representatives passed the House companion to Sasse’s S. 2849, the GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016 (H.R. 5690 by Rep. Buddy Carter).The legislation, first introduced by Senators Sasse and Tester in April, would ensure GAO access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers.The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 primarily to assist state-level agencies enforce child support laws. Access to the database was also given to a large number of oversight bodies at both the federal and state levels to improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like Unemployment Insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans. A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information. This legislation would clarify the intent of Congress to give GAO full access in order to achieve its mission. Just this March, GAO was unable to comply with Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most. The bill does three things: First, it would clarify that GAO’s authority to access federal records includes access to the NDNH.Second, it would strengthen GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring that GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties.Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee. GAO calls S. 2849 its top legislative priority.
09.19.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding the news that the Department of Homeland Security mistakenly granted citizenship to nearly a thousand individuals who were slated for deportation. In a few cases, individuals also received special access to the most secure areas of airports. Two individuals were referred to the FBI for links to terrorism. "This is a picture of total incompetence. Nearly a thousand people who were supposed to be deported were instead given citizenship and a few of them were given access to the most secure parts of airports. A bureaucracy that blunders so badly is one that doesn’t take our national security seriously." This is a picture of total incompetence. https://t.co/e2klMMnwBb pic.twitter.com/wYRlVDgreO — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 20, 2016 Background:This morning, the DHS Inspector General revealed that at least 858 people have been given U.S. citizenship, despite having been ordered to be deported. These individuals were naturalized using fake names, however DHS was not able to spot the fake names because it could not locate fingerprint records matching those names. Since 2008, DHS has attempted to digitize paper fingerprint records, but has not completed the process.According to Inspector General John Roth’s report: At least 858 people were given U.S. citizenship despite final orders of deportation;Of the 858 people: 1 is now a law enforcement officer, 1 was given TWIC, a security credential allowing unescorted access to ports and ships, 2 were given security clearances allowing access to the most sensitive areas in airports, and 2 were referred by ICE to the FBI for links to terrorism. An additional 953 people were naturalized despite having final orders of deportation, but it was unclear if the fingerprint records had been digitized before or after naturalization (meaning the number could be between 858 and 1,811); 148,000 people with final deportation orders still do not have electronic fingerprint records, meaning the problem may continue if uncorrected; To date, ICE has referred only 120 people to DOJ as priorities for possible denaturalization. The DHS OIG report can be found here.
09.19.2016	"[Two previous] wire transfers, Mr. President, seemingly contradict what you have previously told the American people." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) pressed President Obama for transparency regarding his defense of his $400 million cash payment to Iran. Last month, President Obama told the American people that "we could not wire the money" due to sanctions. However, just this weekend, the President's account was contradicted by the Treasury Department which confirmed two earlier wire transfer payments to Iran, one in July 2015 and another in April 2016.Text of the Senator's letter is available below and available here. Dear Mr. President: On Saturday, September 17th, a Treasury Department spokesman confirmed that your administration has made two wire transfer payments to Iran in the last 14 months -- one in July 2015 and one in April 2016. The 2015 payment, according to press reporting, was for approximately $848,000 and was divided between the Iranian Ministry of Environment and the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. The 2016 payment was for approximately $9 million as part of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in exchange for Iran’s removal of heavy water supplies associated with its nuclear weapons program, according to the same reporting. These wire transfers, Mr. President, seemingly contradict what you have previously told the American people. On August 4th, during a press conference discussing your payment of a $400 million ransom to Iran in an exchange for the release of American hostages, you justified making this payment in foreign cash by saying, “[T]he reason that we had to give them cash is precisely because we are so strict in maintaining sanctions and we do not have a banking relationship with Iran that we couldn’t send them a check and we could not wire the money.” But, unless a new sanctions regime has been put in place after April 2016, this is clearly not the case as evidenced by the 2015 and 2016 wire transfers discussed above. It would seem, then, that not only did you embark on a policy that ultimately endangers American lives by incentivizing foreign governments to detain our citizens as a means of extortion, but that this policy was enacted in a manner that maximizes Iran’s ability to hide its use of these funds. Furthermore, you appear to be denying Nebraskans a clear understanding of how and why these funds were given to the world’s leading state-sponsor of terrorism. As such, I respectfully request written answers to the following questions: How many wire transfer payments has your administration made to Iran? How many cash payments has your administration made to Iran? Are there any other types of payments your administration has made to Iran? If so, please list them as well as their respective purpose, date of payment, and value. What, if any, payments to Iran are scheduled? What is the value of each payment and how do you intend to make these payments? What sanctions were you asserting in your August 4, 2016 press conference prevent the United States from making wire transfer payments to Iran? Did these sanctions come into effect after April 2016? Were the July 2015 and April 2016 wire transfers to Iran made directly or via third-party financial intermediaries? Why was a cash payment of $400 million preferable to a wire transfer? Did Iran request a cash payment? If so, why did you not reject this request in order to maintain accountability for the use of these funds? Do you have any information suggesting Iran is using any of these funds to support its Revolutionary Guard Corps or to support terrorist groups. Can you rule this out? How many Americans are still detained in Iran? How many have been detained since your $400 million payment? Sincerely,Ben SasseU.S. Senator
09.15.2016	Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse spoke on the Senate floor, criticizing a concerning report from the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights regarding religious liberty. Sasse argued that the report reveals a disturbingly low view of religious liberty and urged Republicans and Democrats to defend our First Freedoms. Senator Sasse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: Mr. President, I rise today to address the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights’ recently released report titled, “Peaceful Coexistence: Reconciling Nondiscrimination Principles with Civil Liberties.” The Commission on Civil Rights has a profound history in our nation. Founded in 1957, it initially had the grand cause of ending the horror and the tragedy of Jim Crow laws in our nation. Sadly, however, the Commission’s focus has now strayed, and its recent report poses profound threats to the historic American understanding of our First Amendment. In the Commission’s new report, the majority reveals a disturbingly low view of our First Freedoms. It puts “religious liberty” in scare quotes, and says it must now be subservient to other values. Here is a snapshot of the majority’s position, in its own words: Progress toward social justice depends upon the enactment of, and vigorous enforcement of, status-based nondiscrimination laws. Limited claims for religious liberty are allowed only when religious liberty comes into direct conflict with nondiscrimination precepts. The central finding which the Commission made in this regard is: Religious exemptions to the protections of civil rights based upon classifications such as race, color, national origin, sex, disability status, sexual orientation, and gender identity, when they are permissible, significantly infringe upon these civil rights.” Additionally, the Commission’s Chairman Martin Castro noted that, The phrases ‘religious liberty’ and ‘religious freedom’ will stand for nothing except hypocrisy so long as they remain code words for discrimination, intolerance, racism, sexism, homophobia, Islamophobia, Christian supremacy or any form of intolerance. But are the phrases “religious liberty” and “religious freedom” simply hypocritical code words and shields for phobias, intolerances, or power struggles? Of course they are not. Religious liberty is far more beautiful, far more profound, and far more human. Our national identity is actually based on that very premise. The American Founding was unbelievably bold. Our Founders were making the claim that almost everyone in the history of the world had actually been wrong about the nature of government and human rights. Our country’s Founders believed that God created people with dignity and we have rights via nature. And their conviction matters for today’s conversations. It is our Constitution, in fact. No king, no Congress, no Commission gives us our rights. Government is not the author or source of our freedoms. We have rights because we’re people, created with dignity and government is our shared project to secure those rights. And so, “We the People” give the government authorities; the government doesn’t give us rights. Gail Heriot—a member of the Commission—offered a compelling statement and rebuttal to the majority’s low view of religious freedom. Thankfully, she indicated her opposition to the Chairman’s bizarre dismissal of religious freedoms and considered asking him to withdraw it. But then decided “it might be better for Christians, people of faith generally, and advocates of limited government to know and understand where they stand with him.” Ms. Heriot notes, and here I’ll quote her at length: The conflicts that can arise between religious conscience and the secular law are many and varied. Some of the nation’s best legal minds have written on how the federal and state governments should resolve those conflicts. But no one has ever come up with a systematic framework for doing so—at least not one that all Americans can agree on. And perhaps no one ever will. Instead, we have been left to resolve the issues that arise on a more or less case-by-case basis. While she does not aim to create that framework in her remarks, she notes: The bigger and more complex government becomes, the more conflicts between religious conscience and the duty to comply with the law we can expect. Back when the federal government didn’t heavily subsidize both public and private higher education, when it didn’t heavily regulate employment relationships, when it didn’t have the leading role in financing and delivering healthcare, we didn’t need to worry nearly so much about the ways in which conflicts with religious conscience and the law arise. Nobody thought about whether the Sisters of Charity should be given a religious exemption from the Obamacare contraceptive mandate, because there was no Obamacare contraceptive mandate. The Roman Catholic Church didn’t need the so-called Ministerial Exception to Title VII in order to limit ordinations to men (and to Roman Catholics), because there was no Title VII. She continues… The second […] comment I can make is this: While the targeted religious accommodations approach may sometimes be a good idea, it is not always the best strategy for people of faith. Targeted religious accommodations make it possible for ever-expanding government bureaucracies to divide and conquer. They remove the faith-based objections to their expansive ambitions, thus allowing them to ignore objections that are not based on faith. The bureaucratic juggernaut thus rolls on. People of faith should not allow themselves to become just another special interest that needs to be appeased before the next government expansion is allowed to proceed. They have an interest in ensuring the health of the many institutions of civil society that act as counterweights to the state—including not just the Church itself, but also the family, the press, small business and others. They also have an interest in ordered liberty in all its manifestations. A nation in which religious liberty is the only protected freedom is a nation that soon will be without religious liberty too.” Are people of faith simply another special interest group that needs to be appeased? I suggest—along with Ms. Heriot and the Founding Fathers—they are not. People of faith—or no faith at all—are simply exercising their humanity. They do not need government permission to do so. The Commission’s report is titled “Peaceful Coexistence.” But this profession of “Peaceful Coexistence” must never quietly euthanize “religious liberty” because Washington lawyers find it convenient to do so. It must never be used to chip away at our most fundamental freedom. It must never undermine the essence of what it means to be human. It must never erode the American creed – which should unite us. We can and should disagree, and we must jealously defend every right to conscience and self-expression. In closing, I ask my colleagues from both parties to consider the dangerous implications of this report: To my progressive friends: I invite you to be liberals again in your understanding of religious liberty and its merits. To my conservative friends: let us cheerfully celebrate our freedoms. Let us kindly dismantle the pernicious myth that somehow your freedoms are merely a cover for fear or hate. These freedoms are too important to relinquish. Thank you Mr. President. I yield back.
09.15.2016	Nebraska Amendments Improve Water Bill For Taxpayers and Agriculture U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement after the Senate passed his amendment to the Water Resources Development Act that will require the Government Accountability Office to conduct the first-ever audit of the “environmental infrastructure” program, a program that has historically been a slush fund for earmarks. “Nebraskans made this bill better for taxpayers and agriculture. My amendment tasks the taxpayers’ watchdogs at the GAO with the first-ever audit of a slush fund that has evaded accountability for decades. Senator Fischer’s amendment provided regulatory relief for farmers and ranchers struggling with the EPA’s on-farm storage tank rules. At the end of the day, I opposed the final bill for expanding the EPA’s reach and spending too much but, thanks to Nebraska reforms, we’re on the right path. Nebraskans shouldn’t pay for Washington’s pork and that’s what my amendment is all about.” Background: Sasse’s amendment requires the Government Accountability Office, the government’s main investigative arm, to conduct a two-year investigation into the “environmental infrastructure” program run by the Army Corps of Engineers. This will be the first-ever comprehensive review of the program in its history. This sets the stage for more reforms in the next Water Resources bill. For years, there has been bipartisan agreement that the program is wasteful. Since 1992 when the program was created, no Administration has advocated for funding this program. In 2010, President Obama’s National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility called for the program’s outright elimination. In 2014, the conservative Taxpayers for Common Sense condemned the program as a way to circumvent the earmark ban. Text of Sasse’s amendment is available here.
09.14.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, today pressed James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, for answers regarding the news that, in direct contravention of its own policies, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) is not conducting a damage assessment regarding the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and classified information by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.Sasse writes, in part, “the lack of a formal assessment of these matters risks tarring your organization, and possibly the broader IC, with accusations of partisanship or incompetence. I believe both of these critiques are wrong; but I request your timely answers…” Background: Mr. Joel Melstad, a spokesman for the ODNI said that the agency “is not leading an [intelligence community]-wide damage assessment and is not aware of any individual IC element conducting such formal assessments” regarding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and classified information through her off-the-books email server. However, a 2014 directive requires the IC to conduct such damage assessments. Intelligence Community Directive-732 explicitly states that “… damage assessments shall be conducted when there is an actual or suspected unauthorized disclosure or compromise of classified national intelligence that may cause damage to U.S. national security” (emphasis added). The full text of Senator Sasse’s letter is available below and a digital copy available here. Dear Director Clapper: A spokesperson for your office, Mr. Joel D. Melstad, recently stated, “ODNI is not leading an [intelligence community]-wide damage assessment” regarding the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and classified information emanating from the use of a private email server by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Mr. Melstad also indicated that no individual member of the Intelligence Community (IC) is conducting such a review. According to press reporting, the rationale of intelligence leaders for this decision is that much of the sensitive and classified information disclosed in Mrs. Clinton’s email correspondence has been inappropriately disclosed previously and, therefore, it will be difficult and unnecessary to assess the damage done by her specific unauthorized disclosures. Is this true? Are the ODNI and other intelligence agencies declining to conduct an assessment of the national security implications of unauthorized disclosures of sensitive and classified information by former Secretary Clinton’s use of a private, insecure email server? And, if so, what are the reasons for this decision? As a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, I take these unauthorized disclosures of sensitive and classified material very seriously and I am concerned about our Nation’s ability to secure its interests and its secrets. If Mr. Melstad’s statement is true, I also am alarmed by the ODNI’s apparent unwillingness to abide by its own policies, such as Intelligence Community Directive-732, which explicitly states, “...damage assessments shall be conducted when there is an actual or suspected unauthorized disclosure or compromise of classified national intelligence that may cause damage to U.S. national security” (emphasis added). Even if information has been previously exposed, is it not prudent to understand the implications of this specific disclosure in terms of who gained access to the information and how they might leverage these insights? Also, it seems prudent to have an assessment of how Mrs. Clinton’s disclosures might be understood as confirming previous disclosures and how such confirmations might impact our national security. In short, the lack of a formal assessment of these matters risks tarring your organization, and possibly the broader IC, with accusations of partisanship or incompetence. I believe both of these critiques are wrong; but, I request your timely answers to these questions in order to maintain this view. Sincerely, Ben Sasse U.S. Senator
09.12.2016	"Families in New Jersey have just been gut-punched and the last thing that Washington should do is force these CO-OP victims to pay Obamacare’s individual mandate." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who today introduced the CO-OP Consumer Protection Act to protect Americans who lost their health plans due to Obamacare’s failed CO-OPs, issued the following statement regarding New Jersey’s CO-OP failure, the 17th in the nation."Families in New Jersey have just been gut-punched and the last thing that Washington should do is force these CO-OP victims to pay Obamacare’s individual mandate. This started in Nebraska and Iowa and has been a catastrophe for countless Americans. The CO-OP Consumer Protection Act would save CO-OP victims — moms and dads in New Jersey and the 16 other states — from Obamacare’s individual mandate."Background:Today, Health Republic Insurance of New Jersey announced it will shut down at the end of this year. This is the 17th Obamacare CO-OP to fail, starting with CoOportunity in Nebraska and Iowa. Hours earlier, Senator Sasse introduced the CO-OP Consumer Protection Act. This legislation repeals Obamacare’s individual mandate for anyone who purchased insurance from one of Obamacare’s failed CO-OPs.
09.12.2016	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse led a group of 17 Senators in urging the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees to keep unnecessary culture warring out of the National Defense Authorization Act as they prepare for conference negotiations.“Republicans and Democrats should be able to agree that taking care of national security is more important than running up the score in unnecessary and divisive culture wars,” said Senator Sasse. “Rather than reflexively jumping into a heated debate about drafting our nation’s mothers, sisters, and daughters, we should consider the fact that the greatest fighting force in history—our Armed Forces—is an all-volunteer fighting force and no one is urging Congress to change that. As the Conference Committee negotiates the National Defense Authorization Act, Congress should task an independent commission to study the Selective Service System and determine if it even needs any expansion.”The letter was signed by Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE), Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Sen. John Thune (R-SD), Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK), Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Sen. John Boozman (R-AR), Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT), Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND), Sen. James Lankford (R-OK), Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT), Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS), Sen. David Perdue (R-GA), Sen. James Risch (R-ID), Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC), Sen. Roger Wicker (R-MS). The text of the letter is found below. Taking care of national security is more important than running up the score in unnecessary & divisive culture wars. pic.twitter.com/irMRyLNlu4 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 12, 2016 Dear Chairman McCain: Ranking Member Reed: Chairman Thornberry: Ranking Member Smith: We, the undersigned, request your consideration on a matter of great importance as you prepare for conference negotiations on the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).As you know, the Senate-passed bill includes language that would, for the first time, require women to register for the Selective Service. We believe it is better to refrain from this expansion and to instead, task an independent commission to study the purpose and utility of the Selective Service System, specifically determining whether the current system is unneeded, if it is sufficient, or if it needs an expanded pool of potential draftees.We should not hinder the brave men and women of our armed forces by entrapping them in unnecessary cultural issues. Our all-volunteer military is the best military the world has ever seen, and women who wish to serve in this military are free to do so. The provision of the FY17 NDAA requiring women to register for the Selective Service should be removed. We respectfully ask that you remain mindful of our opposition as you negotiate the final conference product. Specifically, we urge you to adopt the House position.Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) Senator John Thune (R-SD) Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) Senator John Boozman (R-AR) Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) Senator John Hoeven (R-ND) Senator James Lankford (R-OK) Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) Senator David Perdue (R-GA) Senator James Risch (R-ID) Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS)
09.09.2016	Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that investigated the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program earlier this year, announced his companion legislation to Nebraska Congressman Adrian Smith’s CO-OP Consumer Protection Act. The simple legislation would repeal Obamacare’s mandate for families who lost their insurance coverage when Obamacare’s CO-OPs collapsed.“This is about fairness. It is unjust to make families who suffered because of the incompetence of Obamacare’s bureaucrats pay Obamacare’s mandate. More than a hundred thousand Nebraskans and Iowans lost their health insurance when CoOportunity failed and that was just the beginning — more than half of Obamacare’s CO-OPs have collapsed across the country. While the entirety of Obamacare must be repealed, Republicans and Democrats should be able to at least agree that it is callous to force CO-OP victims to pay Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty. I’m grateful for Congressman Smith’s work in the House and I’m proud to join that effort by introducing this bill in the Senate.”Background:Sasse will introduce the Senate companion to the CO-OP Consumer Protection Act early next week. This legislation repeals Obamacare’s individual mandate for anyone who purchased insurance from one Obamacare’s failed CO-OPs. The bill applies retroactively to the Nebraskans and Iowans who lost their coverage when CoOportunity failed.
09.08.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Air Force's selection of Offutt Air Force Base as one of five finalists for a new MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicle mission control unit. "Offutt is second to none and these airmen are well suited to the MQ-9 program. Nebraskans can get this job done. Senator Fischer has the respect and admiration of our entire community for her hard work for Offutt on the Armed Services Committee."
09.08.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that investigated the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program earlier this year, issued the following statement praising Congressman Adrian Smith after the House Ways and Means Committee passed his bill, the Co-Op Consumer Protection Act. “When CoOportunity failed, thousands of Nebraskans lost their coverage and were forced to look for new plans. It’s a heartbreaking story that’s played again and again across the country as more than half of Obamacare’s CO-OPs have collapsed. Obamacare must be completely repealed but, at the very least, we should agree that its victims shouldn’t face its penalties. Congressman Smith is absolutely right: Washington shouldn’t force the victims of co-op failures to pay Obamacare’s individual mandate—it’s just common sense.” Additional information on the Smith legislation can be found here.
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Ron Johnson (R-WI) and John Barrasso (R-WY) today introduced the Protection from Obamacare Monopolies Act, legislation that would protect all individuals who live in a county with one or no health insurers offering plans on the Obamacare exchanges from the individual mandate penalty. According to Kaiser Family Foundation, nearly one-third of all counties have only one insurance company offering health care plans in the Obamacare marketplace. Our simple legislation spares moms & dads from #Obamacare’s raw deal. https://t.co/zvyaUNcxQl pic.twitter.com/rcCLJ1iyS8 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 8, 2016 “With Phoenix Health Plans, Inc.’s exit from the Obamacare marketplace last week, nearly all of Arizona’s counties are now left with either one or no options when it comes to health insurance under Obamacare,” said Senator McCain. “This legislation would ensure that Arizonans are not forced to pay a penalty due to the failure of a healthcare system that was fatally flawed from conception. This failed law will only continue to place undue burdens on Arizona families unless we replace it with solutions that put patients back in charge of their health care.” “Obamacare is an unmitigated disaster in Arizona,” said Senator Flake. “The exchanges for 13 of the state’s 15 counties are devoid of competition because they are left with only a single insurer willing to sell coverage. Another county’s exchange has the dubious distinction of being the first in the nation to be completely abandoned by providers. As the administration continues to defend this failed law, we will not wait around for them to fix its mess, which is why we have introduced this legislation to help protect those in Arizona and across the country from unjustifiable financial penalties when they are left without healthcare options.” “Instead of lowering costs, Obamacare has made things worse: insurance companies across the country are fleeing the exchange market at an alarming rate, premiums have skyrocketed, and networks have become more narrow. Obamacare is in a death spiral. What’s worse, Obamacare will impose a fine on countless individuals who no longer have affordable insurance options in their county,” said Senator Cotton. “Hard-working Americans shouldn’t face more taxes because President Obama’s Obamacare hopes and dreams failed. This bill will provide much needed relief from the Obamacare Mandate penalty and allow Americans to purchase coverage they can afford and that actually meets their healthcare needs. “As Obamacare continues to crumble, here’s the administration’s cruel choice for millions of Americans next year: pay Washington’s mandate or bite the bullet and pay the only insurance company available on the exchange in your county,” said Senator Sasse. “Our simple legislation spares moms and dads from Obamacare’s raw deal. For months we’ve sounded the alarm about Obamacare’s lousy choices and unaffordable prices—this whole mess must be repealed but, if Democrats keep trying to defend the indefensible, we should at least help those who are hurt the most.” “The definition of ‘marketplace’ is an economic system in which companies compete with each other to sell their products. It leads to lower prices, higher quality, and a higher level of customer service,” said Senator Johnson. “The Obamacare definition of marketplace, by contrast, has resulted in a failed government system that reduces competition and its benefits. Under Obamacare, Wisconsinites can be penalized for not buying a company’s product, even when there is only one company selling it. This legislation would help ensure that Wisconsin families won't have to pay a penalty to help cover the cost of Obamacare’s failed promise of consumer choice." “A majority of Americans have two or fewer options on the Obamacare exchanges, and 31 percent have only one option,” said Senator Barrasso. “When there’s only one option, that’s not a marketplace, it’s a monopoly. This bill provides desperately needed relief for those who are hit the hardest.”
08.26.2016	"By appeasing Iran and paying ransoms, the Obama Administration has put Americans in danger." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse commented on increasing tensions between the United States and Iran after the USS Squall fired on an Iranian military attack-boat near the Strait of Hormuz and the U.S. State Department issued a warning to Americans in the Middle East regarding kidnappings. By appeasing #Iran & paying ransoms, the Obama Administration has put Americans in danger. https://t.co/Mv55FiYROe pic.twitter.com/eUgfIvVYb7 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) August 26, 2016 "By appeasing Iran and paying ransoms, the Obama Administration has put Americans in danger. Just weeks after bragging about imaginary ‘leverage’ against Iran, the Obama Administration warned Americans about the growing risk of Iranian kidnappings and American sailors were forced to defend themselves against Iranian fast-attack boats. This cannot be the new normal."
08.23.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a former college president, issued the following statement today regarding the National Labor Relations Board’s decision that graduate students can unionize at private colleges. “This misguided, politically-driven decision re-writes the law by changing the meaning of words that were passed by Congress. That’s not the NLRB’s job. The ruling misunderstands both the nature of representative government and the teacher-student relationship: labor laws should be debated by the American people’s representatives in Congress and educators should put students ahead of politics. This adds another layer of complexity to the challenge of reforming higher education.”
08.18.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the State Department’s admission today that the $400 million cash payment to Iran was contingent on the release of four American hostages. "If it quacks like a duck, it's a duck. If a cash payment is contingent on a hostage release, it's a ransom. The truth matters and the President owes the American people an explanation."
08.17.2016	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse responded to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s reflexive and anti-fact defense of Obamacare following the mass exit of Aetna, Humana, and United Health from the exchanges."Nancy Pelosi is Obamacare’s Baghdad Bob. Big insurance companies are scrambling to the exit. More than half of Obamacare’s co-ops have already collapsed. The same families saddled with crummy choices and horrible premiums this year are likely to face an even worse situation next year. Despite these facts, House Minority Leader Pelosi claims that 'the Affordable Care Act is working' and that 'insurers are continuing to adapt' to a 'competitive market.' Her nonsense defense would be hilarious but for two reasons: first, she might actually believe it; and, second, this isn’t a joke to families who were sold Obamacare’s empty promises."Background:On Monday, Aetna cited an expected $300 million loss in 2016 due to Obamacare as its reason to largely abandon Obamacare’s individual market. That decision follows exits from two other large insurers, Humana and United Health. To date, 16 of the 23 Obamacare created CO-OPs have failed.Even before this year’s mass exit, consumers lacked choice and competition. At the beginning of 2016, Americans in 63 percent of the nation's counties were able to choose from just three or fewer insurers on Obamacare’s individual market. With some of the largest insurance companies abandoning those markets, choice will likely diminish.
08.16.2016	"Another unmistakable sign of Obamacare’s slow-motion death spiral." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who published a sobering report on the Affordable Care Act’s lack of competition on the 2016 exchanges, issued the following statement regarding news that Aetna, the nation’s third largest insurer, is abandoning the ACA’s exchanges in all but four states next year. "Aetna’s exit isn’t the beginning and it won’t be the end, but it is another unmistakable sign of Obamacare’s slow-motion death spiral. With ugly withdraws, painful co-op failures, and rotten choices and costs, Obamacare’s collapse is crushing American families." On Monday, Aetna announced that, due to financial losses thanks to the Affordable Care Act, it would pull out of the ACA’s exchanges in all but four states. This follows exits by Humana and United Health.
08.03.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding the arrest of a Washington, D.C. Metro Transit police officer, Nicholas Young, charged with aiding ISIS. According to authorities, the FBI monitored Young since 2010. "While Americans are disturbed to learn that a police officer would aid ISIS, we are grateful that the FBI was alert and active. This is a sobering reminder of the vigilance required to combat crowd-sourced terror. Our enemies’ old, top-down strategy no longer defines our threats. The intelligence community does not exclusively hunt card-carrying members of ISIS and al-Qa’ida. Our challenge is greater and today the FBI has met it forcefully."
07.28.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, and Chairman Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) demanded answers Thursday from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell about HHS’s decision to pay insurers over taxpayers.Obamacare established the transitional reinsurance program to alleviate financial risks and burdensome costs imposed by the ACA. Under the transitional reinsurance program, for benefit years 2014, 2015, and 2016, HHS was required to collect monetary contributions from insurance providers of group health plans. HHS was supposed to return a total of $5 billion to taxpayers by depositing funds into the U.S. Treasury and to redistribute $20 billion to insurance providers of individual health plans. However, when HHS collected less in contributions than required by law in 2014, it fully reimbursed insurers but failed to deposit any funds into the U.S. Treasury. Overall, HHS has promised taxpayers only $500 million in future payments under the reinsurance program in 2014 and 2015, rather than the full $4 billion promised from Obamacare.“Here’s what this is about: HHS is putting insurance companies ahead of taxpayers and that’s textbook Washington cronyism,” said Senator Sasse. “Lobbyists for big insurance companies got the billions they wanted but taxpayers haven’t received a single dime. HHS owes the public some answers.”“Obamacare has been nothing but broken promises and wasted taxpayer dollars,” said Chairman Johnson. “First it was, ‘If you like your healthcare plan and doctor, you can keep them', and American families would see premiums decline by $2,500 per year. Now, we learn the Obama administration has mismanaged a key element of their Rube Goldberg make-over of America's health insurance industry. On top of billions wasted on failed state exchanges and co-ops, the administration is further adding to the deficit by prioritizing payments to insurance companies. It’s past time for the administration to put patients and taxpayers first.”The letter can be found here and below:July 28, 2016The Honorable Sylvia M. BurwellSecretaryU.S. Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20201Dear Secretary Burwell:The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is examining the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) implementation of the transitional reinsurance program created under section 1341 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). In particular, we write to request your assistance in better understanding HHS’s decision to prioritize payments to insurers over payments to taxpayers under the transitional reinsurance program. HHS’s decision could potentially cost taxpayers $4.5 billion.The ACA created three risk mitigation programs to alleviate the financial risks and burdensome costs imposed by the ACA. One of the programs, the transitional reinsurance program, was designed, in part, to “stabilize premiums in the individual [health insurance] market” in the wake of anticipated market disruptions that would necessarily follow the implementation of the ACA. The transitional reinsurance program was also designed to provide an offset for the ACA’s significant new spending. Under the transitional reinsurance program, HHS collects monetary contributions from health insurance issuers and group health plans; in turn, HHS redistributes those contributions among insurers that provide individual plans and deposits a portion of the contributions into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury.The ACA established mandatory collection amounts for benefit years 2014, 2015, and 2016, and specified the parameters for HHS’s distribution of the collected funds. The ACA required HHS to collect a total of $20 billion for reinsurance purposes and to deposit an additional $5 billion into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury, while also allowing HHS to collect contributions to cover the administrative costs of operating the reinsurance program. Under the law, HHS must collect $10 billion in 2014, $6 billion in 2015, and $4 billion in 2016 for reinsurance purposes. Similarly, the law specifies that collections for the general fund of the U.S. Treasury must total $2 billion in 2014, $2 billion in 2015, and $1 billion in 2016. The ACA permitted the contribution amounts to “be allocated and used in any of the three calendar years,” except for the funds designated for the U.S. Treasury. The statute expressly prohibited any use of the $5 billion Treasury funds for reinsurance purposes. Nothing in the statute expressly provided HHS with discretionary authority to prioritize payments to insurance providers rather than to the U.S. Treasury. HHS issued regulations in 2013, 2014, and 2015 that established annual assessment amounts for insurers to pay per-enrollee so that HHS could collect the contribution amounts mandated by the ACA. HHS determined that for the 2014 benefit year, to meet its statutory requirements, it would collect $63 per enrollee, which HHS projected would result in total collections of $12.02 billion—$10 billion for reinsurance, $2 billion for the U.S. Treasury, and $20.3 million for administrative costs. HHS determined for the 2015 benefit year it would collect $44 per enrollee, which HHS projected would result in total collections of $8.025 billion—$6 billion for reinsurance, $2 billion for the U.S. Treasury, and $25.4 million for administrative costs. HHS determined for the 2016 benefit year, it would collect $27 per enrollee, which HHS projected would result in total collections of $5.032 billion—$4 billion for reinsurance, $1 billion for the U.S. Treasury, and $32 million for administrative costs.In reality, HHS collected far less in reinsurance contributions than the ACA requires. For benefit year 2014, HHS collected only a total of $9.7 billion under the transitional reinsurance program, falling approximately 20 percent short of the projected $12.02 billion that HHS intended to collect to meet its statutory obligations. HHS paid $8 billion in reinsurance claims to insurers at a 100 percent coinsurance rate for benefit year 2014. Yet, despite fully reimbursing insurers, HHS declined to deposit any money into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury in benefit year 2014. Instead, HHS carried over the remaining $1.7 billion for use for reinsurance-eligible issuers in benefit year 2015.Despite collecting 20 percent less than it projected in benefit year 2014, HHS did not modify its collection methodology for the 2015 benefit year. Unsurprisingly, then, HHS miscalculated the per capita contribution rate needed in order to meet its statutory obligations. For the 2015 benefit year, HHS announced that it anticipated it would collect only $6.5 billion for 2015, 19 percent short of the projected $8.025 billion. HHS has announced that for benefit year 2015, it intends to pay to pay the U.S. Treasury only $500 million of the $2 billion owed while sending $7.7 billion to insurers ($6 billion for 2015 plus $1.7 billion in funds carried over from the 2014 benefit year). All told, the American taxpayers will receive only $500 million in payments under the transitional reinsurance program for benefit years 2014 and 2015 instead of the combined $4 billion required by Congress in the ACA.During the rulemaking process, HHS received public comments about its proposed contribution rate for benefit year 2014. Several commenters “asked HHS to defer the collection of the $2 billion payable to the U.S. Treasury in 2014 until 2016.” In response to those comments, HHS explained in 2013 that it “considered the commenters’ statutory interpretations for how such a deferral may be permissible under section 1341 of the Affordable Care Act and would support such a deferral, but concluded that we have no statutory authority to defer the collection.” HHS’s statement suggests that it initially interpreted section 1341 to require that it strictly meet its statutory obligations for each year.It appears, however, that HHS reversed course when it became clear that it had miscalculated the per capita contribution and would be unable to meet its statutory obligation both to insurers and taxpayers. In subsequent reinsurance regulations, HHS proposed:[I]f collections fall short of our estimates for a particular benefit year, we propose to alter the allocation so that the reinsurance contributions that are collected are allocated first to the reinsurance pool and administrative expenses, and are allocated to the U.S. Treasury once the targets for reinsurance payments and administrative expenses are met.In its final regulation, HHS claimed it had the legal authority under section 1341 to “determine the priority, method, and timing for the allocation of reinsurance contributions collected” because the statute was silent on “how HHS should approach the distribution of reinsurance contributions if insufficient amounts are collected to fully fund all three components of the program (that is, reinsurance payments, administrative expenses, and payments to the U.S. Treasury).”HHS’s position that it may prioritize payments to insurance companies over taxpayers—and, subsequently, the payment scheme it operated under the transitional reinsurance program for the benefit years 2014 and 2015—is not consistent with the law. First, nothing in the ACA’s text or structure contemplated that HHS would be unable to fully finance the transitional reinsurance program because section 1341 requires HHS to develop a methodology that collects a clearly-defined amount of money for benefit years 2014, 2015, and 2016. HHS’s failure to collect this amount of money is itself a violation of the law. The statute’s silence with respect to the allocation of insufficient collections under the transitional reinsurance program simply does not give HHS the authority to prioritize payments in the event it fails to collects sufficient funds.Second, HHS argued that section 1341 permits prioritization of payments to reinsurance-eligible insurers over payments to the U.S. Treasury because the statute uses “mandatory language with respect to the collection” of funds for reinsurance payments and uses “more permissive language with respect to the collection of amounts for administrative expenses and payments for the U.S. Treasury.” No such distinction exists in the text of section 1341. section 1341(b)(3)(B)(iv), which governs the contribution to the U.S. Treasury from the transitional reinsurance program, states that the program “shall be designed so that each issuer’s contribution amount for any calendar year reflects its proportionate share of” the U.S. Treasury contribution. HHS argued that the use of the word “reflects” in this provision is “permissive language.” As a result of this peculiar interpretation HHS essentially interpreted the text of the ACA to say that each issuer’s “proportionate share” of contributions allocable to the U.S. Treasury is zero until and unless the total amount collected from all issuers meets the statutory mandate for reinsurance payments. Under this interpretation, HHS ensures that the entire contribution from some group plans under the transitional reinsurance program will be paid solely to reinsurance-eligible issuers and will not reflect any amount that will be contributed to the U.S. Treasury. This interpretation directly conflicts with the plain language of section 1341, which requires that that a proportionate share of aggregate U.S. Treasury contribution be reflected in “each issuer’s contribution.” Simply put, at least some portion of each issuer’s contribution under the transitional reinsurance program must be deposited into the U.S. Treasury. In addition, section 1341(b)(4) requires that the annual collections to the U.S. Treasury described in section 1341(b)(3)(B)(iv) be only deposited into the U.S. Treasury and “may not be used for” reinsurance program payments. According to the independent and non-partisan Congressional Research Service, HHS’s interpretation that the entire contribution of an issuer be applied to only reinsurance-eligible issuers and that no part of it is used for the U.S. Treasury “would appear to be in conflict with a plain reading of § 1341(b)(4).” Because HHS has not followed plain language of the ACA, the U.S. Treasury and the American taxpayer will now be short at least $3.5 billion. To assist the Committee in further understanding HHS’s implementation of the transitional reinsurance program, we respectfully request the following information and material:1. HHS used the same flawed methodology to calculate the uniform reinsurance contribution rate for 2014, 2015, and 2016 collections despite its clear failure to yield adequate collections for the 2014 benefit year. a. For benefit years 2015 and 2016, why did HHS not adjust the calculation to improve its accuracy in meeting the statutory requirements of the ACA?b. What, if any, analysis did HHS conduct concerning the calculation methodology and adjustments to the methodology? c. Please provide all communications referring or relating to HHS’s calculation methodology and its consideration of adjustments to the methodology after HHS became aware of the shortfall. 2. When did HHS realize that the collection rate of $63 per enrollee would be insufficient to collect the projected $12.02 billion for the 2014 benefit year?3. When did HHS realize that the collection rate of $44 per enrollee would be insufficient to collect the projected $8.025 billion for the 2015 benefit year?4. Has HHS determined whether collections will be sufficient to fully pay the U.S. Treasury the statutorily-mandated $1 billion for the 2016 benefit year? Please explain.5. Does HHS plan to contribute to the U.S. Treasury the full $5 billion that the plain text of the ACA mandates? Please explain.6. Please provide all documents and communications referring or relating to HHS’s decision-making process that resulted in HHS’s prioritization of payments to insurance companies over payments to the U.S. Treasury.7. Please provide a record of all meetings with all persons associated with the comments HHS received in favor of the agency’s ability to prioritize reinsurance payments.Please provide this material as soon as possible but no later than 5:00 p.m. on August 11, 2016.The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is authorized by Rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the Senate to investigate “the efficiency, economy, and effectiveness of all agencies and departments of the Government.” Additionally, S. Res. 73 (114th Congress) authorizes the Committee to examine “the efficiency and economy of all branches and functions of Government with particular references to the operations and management of Federal regulatory policies and programs.”For purposes of this request, please refer to the instructions and definitions contained in the enclosure. When delivering production sets, please produce to Majority staff in room 340 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building and to Minority staff in room 613 of the Hart Senate Office Building. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Samantha Brennan or Kyle Brosnan of Chairman Johnson’s staff at (202) 224-4751 or Alyene Senger of Senator Sasse’s staff at (202) 224-4224. Thank you again for your assistance in this matter.Sincerely, Ron Johnson Ben SasseChairman U.S. Senator cc: The Honorable Thomas R. Carper Ranking Member
07.26.2016	"While the Obama Administration idles with empty platitudes and fantasy resets, Mr. Putin’s Soviet-style aggression has escalated to levels that were unimaginable just a week ago." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding The New York Times’ report that the intelligence community believes that Russia is responsible for the hack of the Democratic National Committee. "Every American, without regard to political party, must face this grim reality: While the Obama Administration idles with empty platitudes and fantasy resets, Mr. Putin’s Soviet-style aggression has escalated to levels that were unimaginable just a week ago. America is digitally exposed. The United States must take serious offensive and defensive actions now. Russia must face real consequences."
07.21.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who published a damning report on the Affordable Care Act’s lack of competition on the 2016 exchanges, issued the following statement regarding news that Humana is all but abandoning the individual market, including the ACA’s exchanges.“This doesn’t look like a market—it looks like a death spiral. Unfortunately, no one should be shocked at a news dump when the media’s eyes are on Cleveland. This is devastating news for thousands of Americans who will suffer because the Affordable Care Act cannot and will not fulfill its promises of more choice and lower premiums. This is unsustainable and today’s news is further proof that the Affordable Care Act’s days are numbered.” Background: Today, Humana announced that it will dramatically reduce the number of counties in which it will offer health insurance plans in the Obamacare-compliant individual market next year. Humana’s announcement follows United’s mass exodus of the ObamaCare exchanges next year.According to Humana’s announcement today, customers in the individual market will only be able to purchase Humana plans in no more than 156 counties during 2017, down from 1,351 in 2016. This includes all individual market plans offered by Humana, both on and off-exchange plans.As for on-exchange plans, Humana offers coverage in 313 counties across 15 states this year, according to the Sasse report. This means that for Obamacare customers in 2017, they will have far fewer choices than today. Even if Humana offers on-exchange plans in all remaining 156 counties, it would mean the elimination of at least half of Humana's Obamacare options from the prior year.
07.20.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the United States’ steadfast commitment to our NATO allies."Our friends should draw strength and our adversaries should take pause from this simple fact: Americans keep our word. As Mr. Putin revives Soviet-style aggression and the threat of violent Islam looms over European and American cities, the United States stands with our NATO allies."
07.14.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding the terror attacks in France. "Our hearts break to see our French allies under attack again. Free people everywhere are engaged in a decades-long fight against violent Islam. Cowards who turn trucks into weapons will be defeated only by confronting the murderous ideology at the root of this carnage."
07.14.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has been outspoken about Russia’s troubling trajectory, issued the following statement regarding Secretary of State John Kerry’s trip to Russia seeking greater cooperation in Syria. The Secretary's trip follows Moscow’s recent adoption of so-called anti-terror legislation that bans Russians from sharing their faith outside of a church or other officially authorized house of worship. “Secretary Kerry cannot dismiss this simple fact: Russia is not a credible partner. In Syria and in Russia, Putin and his cronies are reviving Soviet-style aggression and oppression under the guise of anti-terrorism efforts. Secretary Kerry must forcefully condemn Moscow’s attacks on American-backed fighters in Syria and its suppression of religious liberty in Russia.” Background: Today, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry departed for Moscow on a mission to foster cooperation with Russia in the war against ISIS in Syria. This trip coincides with two troubling developments. Religious liberty: On July 10, President Putin signed so-called anti-terror legislation that would ban Russians from sharing their faith outside of a house of worship. Foreign missionaries must demonstrate to the Putin regime that they have been invited by state-sanctioned religious groups. Missionaries who do not meet these new standards face fines and deportation. These draconian measures have been condemned by the United States Commission on Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an independent, bipartisan federal commission, just last week. “These deeply flawed anti-terrorism measures will buttress the Russian government’s war against human rights and religious freedom,” said USCIRF Chair Thomas J. Reese, S.J. “They will make it easier for Russian authorities to repress religious communities, stifle peaceful dissent, and detain and imprison people.” Russia-U.S. Cooperation in Syria: Secretary Kerry’s trip has been met with strong opposition from some U.S. defense and intelligence leaders who continue to make the case that Washington and Moscow have fundamentally opposed objectives in Syria -- namely, the continuance of the Assad regime. When asked about Kerry’s efforts, one U.S. intelligence official observed, "He's ignoring the fact that the Russians and their Syrian allies have made no distinction between bombing ISIS and killing members of the moderate opposition, including some people that we’ve trained … Why would we share intelligence and targeting information with people who’ve been doing that?"
07.11.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the death of Seth Rich, a Nebraskan who worked for the Democratic National Committee in Washington, D.C. “This is heartbreaking news. Melissa and I mourn the loss of a young Nebraskan who came to Washington to make a difference for his community and country as he saw best. Our prayers are with Seth's family. His heart for service is an example for all Nebraskans, regardless of party, at a time when too many Americans are disengaged with some of the most important debates.”
07.08.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement regarding the tragedies in Baton Rouge, St. Paul, and Dallas:"Our family is heartbroken over the tragedies in Baton Rouge, St. Paul, and Dallas. As our nation mourns together, we must condemn evil against all innocents, extend thanks to our law enforcement, and turn to the long work of bridging racial divides and building respect for our shared human dignity."There is a distressing gap between the smart phone footage and the kind of country we want to pass on to our kids. Every American—Republican, Democrat, black, and white—wants something better for our children. We all ache for peace and justice. While we may disagree on some policies to pursue those aims, we cannot forget that these are still our common aims."There are no easy solutions for our communities that have been sown with distrust and violence. This must necessarily involve lawmakers but it is bigger than politics and will primarily depend on parents, pastors, and civic leaders."
07.06.2016	"Simply put: Lying matters. Public trust matters. Integrity matters. And woe to us as a nation if we decide to pretend this isn’t so." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse spoke on the Senate floor today about the FBI's systematic account of Secretary Clinton's mishandling of classified information, the danger of a two-tiered system of justice, and the erosion of public trust in civic life. Senator Sasse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: Mr. President: Yesterday, James Comey, the FBI Director, announced that his agency will not recommend that the Department of Justice bring criminal federal charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton regarding her use of a set of off-the-books, undisclosed, unsecured email servers not only for her personal correspondence but also for her official duties, including highly sensitive material related to foreign intelligence and terrorist-targeting.Director Comey’s rationale for systematically and devastatingly recounting Secretary Clinton’s many violations of the law and yet recommending against a prosecution is being hotly debated both outside and inside the FBI, as it should be. I rise in this body today, as a matter of oversight, to speak to a slightly different matter than the prosecutorial decision. The debate about why the crimes are not being prosecuted in this case should not blind us to a broader, debasing problem in our civic life today. Simply put: Lying matters. Public trust matters. Integrity matters. And woe to us as a nation if we decide to pretend that this isn’t so. This issue isn’t about political points or about presidential politics. It is about whether the people can trust their representatives, those who are supposed to be serving them in government for a time. I am going to read a series of direct quotes from Secretary Clinton regarding this investigation and then I will read a series of direct quotes from Director Comey’s statement yesterday, as well as from the State Department’s official Inspector General report on this issue.I will not provide a running commentary. I will, instead, simply recount the words and assertions of Secretary Clinton and hold them up to the light of what the FBI and the State Department investigations have found. Sadly, that will be damning enough. Lying matters. Integrity matters. And woe to us as a nation if we forget this. https://t.co/QcWP4jjvuY pic.twitter.com/exVFr9Mdua — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 6, 2016 When the story broke about the Secretary’s use of a personal email account and server, she called a press conference at the United Nations on March 10, 2015 and emphatically, without qualification, declared: “I did not email any classified material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.” Period, full stop. Yesterday, Director Comey: Not true. “110 e-mails in 52 e-mail chains have been determined by the owning agency to contain classified information at the time they were sent or received. Eight of those chains contained information that was Top Secret at the time they were sent; 36 chains contained Secret information…”Later, Mrs. Clinton attempted to adjust her defense: “...I did not send nor receive information that was marked classified at the time that it was sent or received.”Yesterday, Director Comey directly addressed and directly dismissed this defense, noting that – while only a “small number of the e-mails containing classified information bore markings indicating the presence of classified information” – “even if information is not marked ‘classified’ in an e-mail, participants who know – or should know – that the subject matter is classified are still obligated to protect it.”Throughout this controversy, Secretary Clinton has maintained: “I fully complied with every rule I was governed by.”The Inspector General of her own State Department concluded exactly the opposite: “... Sending emails from a personal account to other employees at their Department Accounts is not an appropriate method of preserving any such emails that would constitute a federal record. Therefore, Secretary Clinton should have preserved any federal records she created and received on her personal account by printing and filing those records with the related files in the office of the Secretary. At a minimum, Secretary Clinton should have surrendered all emails dealing with Department business before leaving government service and, because she did not do so, she did not comply with the Department’s policies that were implemented in accordance with the Federal Records Act” statute.Now, regarding those subsequently “surrendered emails,” Mrs. Clinton has said: “... After I left office, the State Department asked former secretaries of state for our assistance in providing copies of work-related emails from our personal accounts. I responded right away and providedALL my emails that could possibly be work-related ..”Yesterday Director Comey explicitly rejected this claim, noting not only that several thousandemails were missing, but also that some of the emails she withheld were in fact also classified.Director Comey: “The FBI also discovered several thousand work-related e-mails that were not in the group of 30,000 that were returned by Secretary Clinton to State in 2014 … With respect to the thousands of emails we found that were not among those produced to State, agencies have concluded that three of those were classified at the time they were sent or received, one at the Secret level…”Mr. President, lest it is confused, here is Director Comey’s summary of the situation: “ … Any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton’s position, or in the position of those government employees with whom she was corresponding about these matters, should have known that an unclassified system was no place for that conversation.”Mr. President, we could go on. There’s more – about the foreign adversaries that we know were and are trying to hack sensitive U.S. government classified material. What I’ve presented here are not opinions. They’re not political talking points or spin.All I’ve done is recount some of the specific defenses, claims, and excuses Secretary Clinton has offered regarding her use of a set of unsecured, off-the-books email servers, and then contrasted those claims with how the FBI and the State Department have proved those claims to be clearly and knowingly false. If any of Secretary Clinton’s defenders in this body would like to come to the floor to dispute the FBI’s assertions, I would welcome that discussion. Mr. President, these are serious matters that deserve our serious attention. As elected officials, we have been entrusted for a time with the security and with the trust of the people.Quite apart from the specific question of whether Secretary Clinton is going to be convicted of a crime, we must grapple with the reality that the public trust, the rule of law, and the security of our Nation have been injured by her actions.In the coming months, the next time a career military or intelligence officer leaks an important secret – a legally defined classified matter related to the security of our nation and our nation’s spies who are putting their lives at risk to defend our freedoms – one of two very bad things is going to happen next:Either that individual will not be held accountable, because yesterday the decision was made to set a new, lower standard about our nation’s security secrets. We will thereby become weaker. Or, the decision will be made to hold that person accountable – either by prosecution or by firing. In that moment, the individual and his or her peers will rightly ask: “But why is the standard different for me than for a politically powerful person?” This question is about the rise of a two-tiered system of justice – one for the common man and one for the political elite. This is about the rise of a two-tiered system of justice - one for the common man & one for the political elite. https://t.co/QcWP4jjvuY — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 6, 2016 If we allow such a two-tiered system to solidify, we fail in our duties – both to safeguard the nation, and to enable the people to believe in representative government and in equality before the law. This stuff matters. Lying matters. The dumbing down and the debasing of expectations about the truthfulness of public speech matter. Honor matters. And woe to us as a nation if we decide to forget this obvious truth of republican government. Thank you, Mr. President.
07.04.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, currently traveling in the Middle East, issued the following statement in celebration of Independence Day.“Happy Independence Day from Camp Resolute Support in Afghanistan. It has been an honor to meet and thank some of the Nebraskans serving us in harm's way. Recent attacks in the Middle East and Southeast Asia remind us that the threat of violent Islam is real. Nebraskans are resolved to meet the challenges of this decades long conflict and grateful, especially today, for the men and women who defend our freedoms.”Background: Senator Sasse is currently traveling with a bipartisan CODEL to Pakistan and Afghanistan. Senators have met with host nation leadership, U.S. officials, and U.S. troops.
06.29.2016	"Putin and his government cronies think they can make Russia great again by hoarding wealth, by abusing power, and by crushing any and all opposition." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) condemned current legislative efforts in Russia to criminalize freedom of speech and religious liberty. Sasse's remarks from the Senate floor follow the Russian parliament's approval of so-called anti-terrorism legislation that would make it illegal for Russians to share their faith outside of a church or house of worship.Sasse's full remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concern about troubling new developments in Russia. Russia’s parliament, the Federal Assembly, has just approved so-called anti-terrorism legislation that criminalizes free speech and that attacks religious liberty. If President Putin signs this into law in the coming weeks, it will be illegal for Christians to share their faith outside of a church building, as if faith is constrained by the four walls of a structure and belief to a single day of the week. In some ways, this isn’t a surprise. New Russian legislation would make it illegal for Christians to share their faith outside of a church. That's wrong.https://t.co/IvcTCsEigK — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 30, 2016 There’s a lot wrong with Russia. We are witnessing a rising authoritarianism in a declining state. Moscow routinely tramples the rights of press, assembly, speech, dissent, and national sovereignty.Ask the families of murdered journalists. Ask student groups who face intimidation. Ask the political dissidents who fear imprisonment. Ask the Ukrainian people who fear being fully overrun.Why is this happening?Because Putin and his government cronies think they can make Russia great again by hoarding wealth, by abusing power, and by crushing any and all opposition. They strike a strongman pose but this is not real strength.True strength is rooted in virtue: Selflessness and sacrifice on behalf of the weak. Mr. Putin is driven by cheap imitation and intimidation, more akin to bullying. Vice masked as virtue.We know that Russia’s offenses are many and egregious. At the same time, Americans well understand that it is not our national calling – nor is it within our power – to attempt to right every wrong in a broken world.But we should be clear about what is happening – as well as the fact that there is not an easy fix here. It is naive to hope that Russia can be reformed with reset buttons or with promises of future “flexibility.” Instead we need to begin telling the truth about an increasingly aggressive actor in global affairs. Again let me be explicit: The U.S. does not have a solemn obligation to make the world free but we absolutely do have an obligation to speak on behalf of those who are made speechless in the dark corners of the globe.This Russian law would be an affront to free people everywhere—at home and abroad—who believe that rights of conscience—the rights to free speech and to freedom of religion—are pre-political. These freedoms do not ebb and flow with history. They do not rise and fall with the political fortunes of a despot. Governments do not give us these rights and governments cannot take them away. These rights of speech and religion and assembly belong to every man, woman, and child because all of us are image-bearers of our Creator.I’m speaking tonight because this new Russian legislation is emblematic of a destructive growing nationalism and of a thirst for power that cannot be ignored. In Russia, we're witnessing a rising authoritarianism in a declining state. Its thirst for power cannot be ignored.? https://t.co/IvcTCsEigK — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 30, 2016 Putin has a desire to squeeze down on civil society, on other venues for discussion and debate, and on other institutions outside of politics where human dignity can and should be expressed.He has this desire because he is weak, not because he is strong. We here in this body, without regard to political party, and representing all 50 states, must be sober and clear eyed about Russia. We must become more sober and clearer-eyed about its hostilities and its dangerous trajectory. We have a duty here to be telling the truth early about where this might be headed.Thank you Mr. President.
06.27.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its 5-3 decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, striking down Texas’ common-sense regulation of basic health standards in abortion facilities."The Supreme Court's ruling is a disappointment for millions of pro-life Americans who understand that being pro-life is about protecting babies and their mothers. Both sides of the abortion debate should have been able to agree that sanitary conditions and hospital admitting privileges are not controversial." Disappointed. Sanitary conditions & hospital admitting privileges shouldn't be controversial. #SCOTUS pic.twitter.com/KaKQJNIC6q — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 27, 2016
06.22.2016	"Another day, another decision and another court striking down this runaway Administration for unilaterally rewriting another law." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after a federal judge ruled against the Obama Administration’s rules against hydraulic fracturing."Another day, another decision and another court striking down this runaway Administration for unilaterally rewriting another law. Nobody in Nebraska voted to make the Interior Department a super-legislature. This ruling is an important victory for anyone who wants to protect three separate branches of government." Another decision striking down this runaway Admin for unilaterally rewriting another law. https://t.co/3SdE5FaNWR pic.twitter.com/1SVD3cmi0j — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 22, 2016
06.21.2016	The Amendment Would Stop China from Being Designated Unilaterally as “Market Economy” Today, U.S. Sens. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.) introduced a new measure that would protect Congress’s role to define China’s economy as market-based or non-market-based so as to retain tools to protect workers and businesses in Nebraska, Minnesota, and across the country by helping to keep China’s unscrupulous trade practices in check. China is currently classified as a “non-market economy”—meaning that the government closely controls the economy, and prices don’t accurately reflect their true values. And because China isclassified as a non-market economy, the U.S. is able to take additional steps to more accurately impose anti-dumping duties for commodities like steel and timber. Right now, China is pushing trade officials in the U.S. and abroad to grant it “market economy” status. Currently, this change can be done by the by the executive branch alone without a vote by the American people’s representatives in Congress. If China’s request is approved by the Administration, which could happen by the end of 2016, Americans could lose important trade protections. The Senators’ legislation proposes a simple, yet effective step to support fair trade practices: The U.S. Commerce Department could not use any taxpayer resources to unilaterally grant market-economy status to China. By doing that, American workers, communities, and industries would be protected from China’s non-market economy. “Current law provides tools for our country to check unfair practices by China,” said Sen. Sasse. “But current law allows these tools to be changed anytime by the President, unilaterally. This amendment will ensure that free trade benefits Americans and lets Congress decide if China has a functioning market. Democrats and Republicans should be able to come together to take this small step to restore the Constitutional balance between Congress and the President.” “When it comes to producing iron ore and steel, Minnesota’s Iron Rangers know that they can compete with anybody in the world on a level-playing field,” said Sen. Franken. “But when China manipulates its trade economy, it undercuts American producers and threatens our workers, communities, and industries. Granting China ‘market economy’ status would potentially harm regions like Northern Minnesota and would also make it more difficult to crack down on unfair trade practices. Our workers deserve better, which is why we need to pass this amendment to help us keep China’s trade practices in check.” You can read the amendment by clicking here.
06.20.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled against the Department of Labor’s overtime pay rules. "Every Justice of the Court today rebuked the Administration’s sloppy re-write of the overtime rules. This is a small, welcome step in the direction of governance by the rule of law, not arbitrary bureaucrats."
06.12.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding this morning’s attack in Orlando.“We know that violent Islam is bent on turning American cities into war zones and, given comments from the FBI, it appears that Orlando could be the latest front. We mourn the deaths of innocent victims, all made in the image of God. Violent Islam, whether it's card-carrying members of ISIS or al-Qa’ida or its crowd-sourced attackers, must be defeated.”
06.10.2016	"Let me ask a question that should be obvious: Why is it that we’re now fighting about drafting our daughters, our sisters, and our mothers when nobody has told us that we need to draft anyone?" U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) spoke on the Senate floor tonight regarding his amendment to the National Defense Authorization act to stop, study, and sunset the draft. Sasse's amendment can be found here and his remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: Mr. President: Why is it that Washington always jumps blindly into culture war fights?Why is it that we first divide into blue shirts versus red shirts, retreat into our tribes, and then maneuver to inflict maximum pain on each other?That’s not how adults in communities across our land make complicated decisions – but that is what’s happening in this body right now. The legislation before the Senate is supposed to be about national security – which is the first and the most important responsibility of the federal government. Republican and Democrat, every single member of this body, tells our constituents that we support the troops. And I would hope that every single member of this body means it – and thus agrees that national security is far more important than running up the partisan score in some cultural battle. But here we are, getting ready to divide again, now over the issue of women in the draft.Let me ask a question that should be obvious: Why is it that we’re now fighting about drafting our daughters, our sisters, and our mothers when nobody has told us that we need to draft anyone? Seriously, where is any general telling us that the pressing issue of the day is that they need more bodies in a draft? Where is that happening? Who is telling us this? Because I haven’t heard it from anyone. Not once.This fight – about women in the draft – is entirely unnecessary. And wisdom should be nudging us to avoid unnecessary fighting. We have enough real and needed fighting.Before we send our press releases and condemn our opponents, could we just take one minute to recognize this indisputable fact: Our military is already the best fighting force in human history – and it is all-volunteer, and no one is recommending that we change that.So, rather than needlessly dividing Americans over an obsolete 20th century registration process, let’s do this: Let’s stop the expansion of the draft, let’s study the purpose of the draft, and let’s evaluate whether we really need a draft. Maybe we do, but let’s evaluate it.Let’s not start by fighting about who else to add to the draft. Let’s not start by trying to import more culture warring into a national security bill. Let’s start by asking if we are sure we need a draft. I’m introducing a simple amendment. And I hope this body could agree that it aims toward common sense, and toward a de-escalation of our bitter conflicts. My simple amendment replaces the NDAA’s controversial draft provisions, and does 3 relatively non-controversial …but I think more important things instead:1. It says that the Senate admits that the draft – which hasn’t issued a call since December of 1972 – when I was ten months old (and I think I’m five years older than the youngest person in this body) – should be reevaluated, rather than continue on auto-pilot forever without scrutiny;2. It sets a sunset date on the draft for three years from now UNLESS the Congress acts to say that we have consulted with the generals and we believe it is actually needed; and3. It requires the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress in six months on the merit of a selective service system rather than simply defending the status quo. It doesn’t force the unelected Secretary of Defense to wade into culture wars or social engineering. Instead, it asks him to consult with the generals and report back telling us one of three things: · Either they believe the all-volunteer force – which has in actuality been what we’ve done for many years – is sufficient for the human capital needs of the country, and they think the draft is in fact obsolete; · OR number two, they believe we should be keeping the current draft system; · OR number three, they believe that the Draft in fact needs to be expanded – and why they believe that. Again, either the generals think we are fine with an all-volunteer force; OR they think we need as many potential draftees as we have today; OR they think we need more. If they think we need more, then this body should debate who – maybe men older than age 26; maybe women; who knows? But let’s first know that they think the Draft is still needed before we fight about who is potentially going to be drafted. One of the fundamental purposes of this body is to debate – to debate the biggest issues facing our nation, and to do in an honorable way. The Senate is for debate – not as an abstraction, but to be addressing and ultimately solving the meatiest challenges that the Constitution demands we tackle. If any Senator believes that the purpose of the NDAA should be to have a culture war fight, I urge that Senator to come to the Floor and make her or his case. But if not, then let’s avoid the unnecessary cultural division and stick to the national security tasks at hand this week. Thank you, Mr. President.
06.09.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after the Census Bureau’s Chief Information Officer failed to explain why the agency has not completed a report on cybersecurity, as required by Senator Sasse’s amendment to the Quarterly Financial Report Authorization Act that was passed on October 22, 2015. “Sorry doesn't cut it. This shouldn’t be hard: follow the law. If Nebraskans don’t respond to the Census, they’ll face a fine but apparently census bureaucrats don’t feel any urgency to follow the law — even when the security of millions of Americans’ personal information is at stake. This is unacceptable.” Background: Today, at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing, Commerce CIO Stephen Cooper admitted responsibility for failing to comply with the Quarterly Financial Report Authorization Act and submit a report on the Census Bureau’s cybersecurity strategy. Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) had the following exchange with Mr. Cooper: Chaffetz: Mr. Cooper, on October 22, 2015, Congress enacted what’s called the Quarterly Financial Report Reauthorization Act which requires the Secretary of Commerce to report to Congress on data security procedures at the Census Bureau by January 20th of 2016. The Bureau has yet to provide Congress this report. What is the status and why is it so late? Cooper: I have to admit I can’t speak to exactly why it’s late other than I will take responsibility for that. Chaffetz: Is it done? Cooper: It is being completed as we speak. It came to my attention more recently that we had missed the deadline. My staff is now working to complete that report. I’ve seen the draft. It should be complete moving forward probably no later than the end of this month. Chaffetz: It’s Federal law that you’re supposed to report — that you’re supposed to give this to us on January 20th so when did you become aware that it was late? [Cooper looks behind to his staff.] Cooper: I became aware last month. Chaffetz: So it's due in January and you didn't know until May that it was late? Cooper: That is correct. […] Chaffetz: It's federal law. I don't know how you miss things like that. It gives me no confidence when you come and testify that "we're going to get this Census done on time, on budget." Cooper: I understand Congressman. I apologize. I missed this one. I take full responsibility. Chaffetz: But you missed the other two reports as well to Congress. The other promises that you made — that you came and testified before Congress — you missed those as well. Cooper: I did. [pauses] I can absolutely understand how it doesn't instill confidence. I'm working to correct that as best I can.
05.26.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the news that families who get their health insurance on Obamacare’s exchanges from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Nebraska or Medica could face an average premium rate increase of 35 percent next year. “A 35 percent premium increase isn’t political for Nebraska families – it’s unaffordable, plain and simple. This massive rate hike follows the trend created by Obamacare. Never-ending cost increases combined with decreasing insurer competition and choice is even more proof that this law just doesn’t work. Nebraskans deserve relief from this failure. Relief cannot come from more European-style, centrally-planned boondoggles – it has to come from true, patient-centered reform.” Background: Blue Cross Blue Shield of Nebraska is requesting average rate increase of 34.9 percent for individual ACA exchange plans for 2017. According to their filing, "The increase will affect approximately 13,000 policyholders, representing about 25,000 members, based on our April 2016 membership numbers." Medica, another company selling on the exchange in Nebraska, is requesting an average rate increase of 34.5 percent for 2017 individual plans. Medica says this will impact an estimated 5,791 members. Information on these rate increases can be found here. Information on exchange insurer choice and competition can be found here.
05.25.2016	Today, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Jon Tester (D-MT), members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, released the following statements after the “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016” passed through committee. The legislation must now come before the full Senate. “One of the ways to make sure that Washington works for taxpayers and not the other way around is to empower watchdogs, like GAO, to keep government accountable," said Sasse. "For the first time, GAO will be able to fully audit some of the government's biggest entitlement programs. I am pleased that the committee passed this bipartisan solution and call on my colleagues to support common sense transparency." “This good-government legislation gives GAO the necessary tools to ensure transparency and hold the government accountable to the taxpayer,” Tester said. “I’m glad my colleagues joined Senator Sasse and me to support this accountability measure that makes sure the government is working efficiently and in the best interest of our nation.” Background: The “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016”, introduced by Senators Sasse and Tester, would ensure GAO access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers. The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 primarily to assist state-level agencies enforce child support laws. Additionally, access to the database was given to a large number of oversight bodies at both the federal and state levels to improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like Unemployment Insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans. A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information. This legislation would clarify the intent of Congress to give GAO full access. Just this March, GAO was unable to comply with Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most. The bill does three things: First, it would clarify that GAO’s authority to access federal records includes access to the NDNH. Second, it would strengthen GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties. Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee.
05.25.2016	Today, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee passed the OPEN Government Data Act. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Brian Schatz (D-HI) have led the bipartisan effort to require public data to be accessible at Data.gov so individuals, organizations, and other government offices can utilize it. The legislation must now go before the full Senate. "I'm pleased that this bipartisan open data bill is heading to the Senate floor,” said Senator Sasse. “In the age of Uber, data isn’t an abstraction and Washington needs to understand that innovation moves at the speed of information. Taxpayers are already paying for this data — let’s ensure that it is accessible and transparent.” “When data is truly open and accessible, we can grow our data-driven economy and give the public more information about how their tax dollars are being spent,” said Senator Schatz. “Government should help spur innovation, not slow it down. This is about accountability and transparency and making sure that we empower individuals and the private sector by giving them the information they need.” Background: Dozens of technology businesses, industry groups, civil society organizations, and transparency advocates have endorsed the OPEN Government Data Act. Supporters of the legislation include: the Sunlight Foundation, the Data Coalition, Center for Data Innovation, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Taxpayers for Common Sense, and BSA/The Software Alliance. Letters of support can be found here and here. The OPEN Government Data Act would require, by default, the data included at Data.gov to be in a machine-readable format to make it accessible to anyone and easily searchable. It also protects privacy and national security information when making federal government data available to the public.
05.19.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Senate passed the military construction and veterans affairs funding bill which included his amendment to prevent the Department of Veterans (VA) from silencing whistleblowers. "Silencing whistleblowers is wrong -- especially in the context of a VA that already has a terrible history of sweeping problems under the rug. If departing employees can expose broken programs and poor performance, Congress and the American people need to hear from them. Bureaucrats shouldn’t be allowed to hide incompetence behind separation agreements. The VA's gag orders directly violate Secretary McDonald's duty to uphold and defend the Constitution. I'm pleased that my Senate colleagues worked to pass my amendment.” Background: Today, on a vote of 89-8, the United States Senate passed H.R. 2577 the THUD/MilCon-VA appropriations bill, which funds military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The legislation includes Senator Sasse’s amendment that prohibits the VA from entering into “gag order” agreements that would prevent whistleblowers from approaching Congress or their staff members. Several weeks ago the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) strongly rebuked the Department of Veterans Affairs for violating the first amendment rights of a former employee. In a settlement agreement related to a discrimination claim, the VA placed a condition for receiving a payment on a woman that prohibited her “from making any complaints or negative comments to any members of Congress or their staff, or any newspapers or media …” The EEOC said the requirement amounted to a “gag order” that violated the woman’s First Amendment rights, and ruled it “unlawful.” Before authoring his legislation, Sasse demanded answers from VA Secretary Robert McDonald about why his department attempted to strip a former employee of her constitutional right to speak with Congress, and whether this kind of action was routine business at the VA. Sasse’s letter is found below: May 11, 2016 Dear Secretary McDonald: I would like your help understanding why the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) entered into a settlement agreement with a former employee that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) called a “gag order” that violated an individual’s constitutional rights. A recent decision by the EEOC[1] in the case of Aurore v. McDonald raised serious questions about whether the Department of Veterans Affairs undermined the constitutional rights of an employee seeking relief in a case of discrimination, and then retaliated against her when she tried to find a new job. The case involved a woman who worked as a nurse at the VA Puget Sound facility in Seattle, Washington, and believed she was the victim of discrimination. After making her allegations, she entered into a settlement with your department. While the facts of her discrimination case remain sealed, a number of details related to her settlement with the VA have since been made public. One alarming provision of the settlement agreement went so far as to prohibit the woman from talking with any member of Congress or the media. It read: (3.5) Confidentiality: Neither Complainant nor the Agency will disclose this Settlement Agreement or its terms, with the following exceptions: (1) to authorized VA, EEO, ORM, EEOC, or other officials responsible for implementing the Agreement .. It should be understood that Complainant shall be prohibited from making any complaints or negative comments to any member of Congress or their staff, or any newspapers or media or their staff, or any other public forums, about the facts of this Settlement Agreement or the facts or conditions that led up to this Settlement Agreement. (original emphasis)[2] It is my understanding that provisions like this are extremely unusual. So unusual, in fact, that the EEOC not only took the step of rendering what it referred to as a “gag order” null and void, but also rebuked the VA for including it in the first place. In its opinion, the EEOC said, “We view this provision as an unlawful, overly restrictive confidentiality limitation, because it expressly deprives Complainant of her ability to contact Congress and otherwise limits her First Amendment Rights to communicate with the media about any of her EEO claims.” (emphasis added) Adding insult to injury, the EEOC noted, after the VA issued this “unlawful” gag order it failed to abide by the order itself. After the woman was offered a new job in California, her former employer at the VA in Seattle revealed confidential information about the settlement agreement to the prospective employer. The prospective employer then rescinded the job offer. How could anyone at the VA ever believe it was right or fair to prohibit one of their own employees not only from talking with the media, but also from contacting her representatives in Congress? However, to put this requirement in place and then retaliate against the woman by breaking the agreement is deeply troubling. Every constitutional officer - including the Secretary of Veterans Affairs - has a duty to protect the Constitution. The oath we have both taken request that we defend all five freedoms listed in the First Amendment: religion, speech, the press, assembly and petition. The gag order in place by the VA failed to ensure these freedoms were protected. To help me understand the circumstances surrounding this situation, please provide answers to the following questions: 1. Do you believe it was appropriate for the VA to include a provision prohibiting the claimant from exercising her First Amendment rights? 2. Why did the VA include a provision in the settlement agreement prohibiting the claimant from speaking with Congress and the media? 3. Who is the highest ranking official at the VA that approved the settlement agreement entered into on January 7, 2013? 4. Has the VA ever entered into any other settlement agreement that contained a provision prohibiting one of the parties from speaking to Congress or the media? If so, please explain when, how many times and provide the exact language included in the agreement. 5. In light of the EEOC’s decision in Aurore v. McDonald, will VA policy be changed to ensure future settlement agreements do not unlawfully restrict an individual’s constitutional rights? If so, please explain and provide a copy of the new policy. I look forward to your response. Please direct any questions you have to Chris Barkley with my office, who can be reached at (202) 224-4224. Sincerely, Ben Sasse U.S. Senator [1] ***Aurore C., Complainant, v. Robert McDonald, Secretary, Department of Veterans Affairs (Veterans Health Administration), Agency. April 14, 2016. [2] ***Aurore C., Complainant, v. Robert McDonald, Secretary, Department of Veterans Affairs (Veterans Health Administration), Agency. April 14, 2016.
05.16.2016	Tonight, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) delivered a keynote address at the American Enterprise Institute’s Vision Talk: Overcoming Barriers to Opportunity. Senator Sasse mapped some of the policy challenges facing Americans beyond the 2016 ups and downs.Excerpts of Senator Sasse’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below:“Both parties are only interested in punching each other in the face. I think we face a crisis of political vision that flows from the fact that we have two exhausted parties in Washington right now. Democrats pretend like we can make America Europe again by expanding 1960s entitlement programs and too many Republicans believe that we can solve the problem by making America 1950 again.”“We are reaping a lot of the fruit that Ronald Reagan predicted—in any free republic you’re only one generation away from the extinction of freedom if you don’t pass the meaning of America along to the next generation.”“This weekend, I attended three different commencements and graduates I talked with didn’t identify with either of these exhausted visions. When you talk to 18 to 22 year-old kids, they’re pretty dispirited. They know that Republicans have largely left the field and Democrats have a terrible product. My party isn’t selling an optimistic vision and the other party is trying to sell centralization in the age of Uber.”“The American idea is that we want all of our people to be thriving, and independent, and free—that’s the vision we need to sell.”“So let’s ask ourselves, as we try to tackle these challenges, are we ultimately trying to re-empower families, religious organizations, and local enterprises or are we trying to replace them?”
05.12.2016	Business, industry groups, and transparency advocates applaud OPEN Government Data Act Today, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Brian Schatz (D-HI) thanked dozens of tech and transparency organizations for endorsing the OPEN Government Data Act. “These innovators have a lot to teach Washington and we’re grateful to have their support as we work to end the federal bureaucracy’s backwards approach to data,” said U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-Neb). “Data transparency is a win-win for consumers and citizens: data fuels invention and transparency keeps government accountable.” “Open government data promotes accountability, allows agencies to communicate more easily, and unleashes innovation that can benefit both the private and public sectors,” said U.S. Senator Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i). “It’s clear from these strong endorsements that momentum is growing for more accessible and transparent public data.” Background: Over the last week, dozens of technology businesses, industry groups, civil society organizations, and transparency advocates endorsed the OPEN Government Data Act. Supporters of the legislation include: the Sunlight Foundation, the Data Coalition, Center for Data Innovation, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Taxpayers for Common Sense, and BSA/The Software Alliance. Letters of support can be found here and here. The OPEN Government Data Act would require, by default, the data included at Data.gov to be in a machine-readable format to make it accessible to anyone and easily searchable. It also protects privacy and national security information when making federal government data available to the public.
05.12.2016	Today, Nebraska U.S. Senators Ben Sasse and Deb Fischer honored Officer Kerrie Orozco by placing a wreath at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse offered the following statement: "Office Orozco led by example — as a mother, wife, and police officer. Nebraskans will always remember her courage and sacrifice." --- Lawmakers, colleagues and relatives honor Kerrie Orozco in D.C. By Joseph Morton, Omaha World-Herald, May 12, 2016 WASHINGTON -- Slain Omaha Police Officer Kerrie Orozco received one of many tributes Thursday as both of Nebraska’s U.S. senators and several of her fellow officers gathered at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. They laid a wreath at the spot where Orozco’s name is etched into the blue-gray marble wall and reflected on the life of a public servant dedicated to her community. “She exemplifies the best of Nebraska,” Sen. Deb Fischer said. “She was an awesome person.” Sen. Ben Sasse talked about a hero officer everyone in the state now knows. He recalled the kids at her funeral who were wearing jerseys from the athletic league to which she gave so much. Her partner Kevin Wiese knelt and rubbed a pencil over paper to get a reproduction of her name in the marble. Several of Orozco’s relatives, along with members of her law enforcement family, are in Washington this week for National Police Week. There are events throughout the next few days, including a candlelight vigil Friday night. Orozco's lieutenant, Ken Kanger, said it’s a somber occasion, honoring an officer who was killed in the line of duty. “But in the same breath you want to celebrate all the things that Kerrie did for the community, for law enforcement, for the Boys and Girls Club, for kids in general, for public service,” Kanger said. “It’s important that we do that as well, that we pay tribute and memorialize, celebrate everything that Kerrie has done.” He emphasized that they also are honoring all of their fallen brothers and sisters, including Omaha’s Jimmy Wilson and Jason Pratt. Omaha Police Lt. George Merithew recalled how Orozco started the policeman’s ball and roped him into helping after he asked some questions about it. “She looked at me and said, ‘Well, if you have questions why don’t you get on the committee and help us?’ and I couldn’t say no,” he said, laughing at the memory. “It was just phenomenal working with her, to see her energy and how much she cared about Special Olympics and everything that she was doing. It was just amazing.” He said she always was a “go-to” officer who would get the job done with a smile on her face. “She made your day better when you ran into her, just because she was always in a good mood, always happy,” Merithew said. “We miss her and coming here is a way for us to say goodbye. It’s also a way for us to honor her memory.”
05.12.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding a federal court’s ruling that the Obama administration unconstitutionally spent money under ObamaCare. “Here’s what the court just said on ObamaCare: America still has three branches of government and the President cannot rewrite the law — even if it is his namesake.”
05.09.2016	"This story is about whether or not we take truth seriously – whether or not we care about the public trust." Tonight, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse discussed the White House's manipulation of media and read sections of The New York Times Magazine's profile of President Obama's Deputy National Security Advisor on the Senate floor. Excerpts of the Senator's comments, as prepared for delivery, are found below. "I rise this evening to read into the record a portion of The New York Times Magazine’s profile piece yesterday on Ben Rhodes, Deputy National Security Advisor to President Obama. "But before reading the article, titled 'The Story-Teller and the President,' I want to explain very briefly why I believe this piece is so important. "We live in a time of precipitous change – both in American government and in communications. We don’t admit it enough in this body, but the Congress in the last decade-plus is extraordinarily weak by historical standards. At the same time, media is rapidly fragmenting."Vacuums are being filled by the executive branch in ways that are badly damaging both the separation of powers, and the idea of a meaningfully engaged citizenry. There can be little doubt that our Founders would be troubled by what is occurring. "Washington is the process of replacing 'self-evident truths' with self-serving spin. This is dangerous. "For no one is entitled to his or her own facts – yet this story makes clear that the executive branch feels empowered to proclaim its own narratives. "This is bigger than Republicans and Democrats. This is about the legislature’s check on the executive. To my Democratic colleagues who supported this deal, does it at all trouble you that the White House displayed this contempt for you? And for your voters, and for my voters? Will you stand for this kind of fundamentally dishonest spin from a future Republican administration? (Because I won’t – from any administration of either party.)"Some will say this is just the story of one staffer who wanted to brag – who boasted about how the world could be his canvas. But we should be clear that it is elected officials that ultimately bear the responsibility for the ongoing evaporation of public trust in our time. "I want to underscore: This isn’t about whether you share President Obama’s view that the Iranian nuclear deal was a prudent move, or my view that it is a disaster. Instead, this story is about whether or not we take truth seriously – whether or not we care about the public trust. "There is a widespread view around here that our chief job is 'to pass legislation.' That is incorrect. Our main job – indeed the oath that we took – is to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution – which is about limited government and about the separation of powers. Our job is to ensure that the nation is well-governed, and that the public can have confidence that it is well-governed. Congress's chief job is not to "pass legislation." It is to preserve, protect and defend the constitution. https://t.co/YqykHFydYz — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) May 10, 2016 "This necessarily means that oversight is at least as important as passing or repealing legislation. "This horrific story should be a screaming siren to us. "Newsrooms are still struggling with how to do independent and vigorous reporting in the digital age. But it will remain true that freedom – that ordered liberty – will remain dependent on an informed citizenry, and that requires a serious and free press. Good journalism, serious journalism – that takes actual facts seriously, and grapples with them honestly – is an important calling. "I plan to read about one-fourth of this New York Times piece into the record, but please note that I will skip over many proper names for ease of audible understanding...."Truth is bigger than talking points and self-government deserves more than spin."Does the President think there is such a thing as domestic propaganda? Does he think it is OK? Do we?"
04.26.2016	Senators Sasse, Schatz & Representatives Kilmer, Farenthold Introduce OPEN Act Today, Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE), Brian Schatz (D-HI) and Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA-06), Blake Farenthold (R-TX-27) jointly introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to open up government data to improve services and support new discoveries in the private sector. The Open, Public, Electronic and Necessary (OPEN) Government Data Act requires that public data be accessible at Data.gov so individuals, organizations and other government offices can utilize it. “We’re upending Washington’s backwards approach to data,” said Sasse. “It’s simple: government data should be made public unless an administration makes a compelling reason not to. Data transparency matters because democracy thrives with better information that helps keep government accountable to the Constitution.” “The public's information isn’t actually public information until we can access it the way we want to in the digital world,” said Schatz. “Our bill will make sure the government does a better job of sharing data, so that we can help jumpstart private sector innovation, while giving the public more information about how their tax dollars are being spent. I thank Representatives Kilmer and Farenthold for working with Senator Sasse and me to write this bipartisan and bicameral bill.” Data transparency matters. It helps keep gov't accountable to the Constitution. https://t.co/lzNOTpmxA0 #opendata pic.twitter.com/n3G0nvxiQf — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) April 26, 2016 “By embracing open data we can make government more responsive and helpful to everyday Americans,” said Kilmer. “Our bipartisan bill seeks to accomplish that by making open data standard practice. It also saves taxpayer money while giving innovators new tools to help fuel breakthroughs. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to empower positive change for our government, citizens, and businesses.” “Open government data is a great and efficient way to improve transparency in the federal government,” said Farenthold. “Today, we can’t even imagine the applications that developers might find to make folks’ lives easier as federal data starts to become more available in a more useable format.” The OPEN Government Data Act would require, by default, the data included at Data.gov to be machine-readable format to make it accessible to anyone and easily searchable. It also protects privacy and national security information when making federal government data available to the public while requiring federal agencies use it to improve decision making.
04.26.2016	Sasse, Tester Introduce GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016 U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Jon Tester (D-MT) introduced the “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016.” The legislation will ensure that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) is able to access the National Directory of New Hires Database to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers. “Our legislation is simple: let the taxpayers’ watchdogs do their job," said Sasse. "Right now, GAO cannot access a critical database to prevent fraud in government programs. We fix that and ensure that GAO has full access to the National Directory of New Hires. It’s an important step to ensure that Washington follows the laws and the system isn’t being gamed at the taxpayers’ expense.” “Good government is transparent and accountable to taxpayers,” said Tester. “This bill will provide Congress with the ability to conduct proper oversight of federal agencies so they can better serve American families and communities.” Background: The “GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2016”, introduced by Senators Sasse and Tester, would ensure GAO access to the National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) database, equipping GAO to audit key federal programs on behalf of taxpayers. The NDNH was created by Congress in 1996 primarily to assist state-level agencies enforce child support laws. Additionally, access to the database was given to a large number of oversight bodies at both the federal and state levels to improve accountability in the administration of major federal programs like Unemployment Insurance, SNAP, EITC, and student loans. A disagreement between GAO and HHS over the interpretation of current law, however, has prevented GAO from obtaining access to the information. This legislation would clarify the intent of Congress to give GAO full access. Just this March, GAO was unable to comply with Sasse’s request to audit school lunch programs to ensure that assistance was targeted to kids who needed it most. The bill does three things: First, it would clarify that GAO’s authority to access federal records includes access to the NDNH. Second, it would strengthen GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refused to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties. Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee.
04.21.2016	"Washington’s bureaucrats just don’t get it."U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement after voting for an amendment that would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing its destructive Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. Sasse cosponsored the amendment that was introduced by U.S. Senator John Hoeven (R-ND). “Washington’s bureaucrats just don’t get it. Nobody cares or knows more about protecting Nebraska’s water than Nebraskans. The world’s most productive farmers and ranchers know that WOTUS is terrible policy and, together, we’ll continue the fight against this absurd government overreach."Background:The amendment to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act was rejected on a vote of 56–42.
04.20.2016	Sasse testifies before Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has introduced S.2066 the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, testified before the House Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives at hearing to examine the pricing of fetal tissue and whether abortion clinics and middleman businesses were making a profit from the transfer of human fetal tissue — a violation of federal law. Sasse's testimony, as prepared for delivery, is found below:Good Morning Madam Chairman,Thank you for the opportunity to testify before the Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives. Many of us in the Senate, like you in the House, and more importantly millions of Americans watched with grief and horror the video footage of abortion clinic doctors and others discussing the sale of baby body parts for profit. As a legislator, but more importantly as the father of three precious little ones, I support your investigation and commitment to get to the bottom of what is going on. Let’s begin by stating clearly that we should not have to be here today. When Congress passed the 1993 National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act, California Democrat Henry Waxman appropriately noted:"This amendment that I am offering as a substitute would enact the most important safeguards, and those are the safeguards to prevent any sale of fetal tissue for any purpose, just not for the purpose of research. It would be abhorrent to allow for a sale of fetal tissue and a market to be created for that sale."Words are important. The report language for the NIH Revitalization Act and the floor debate created a very clear legislative intent that “no one should profit from the sale of fetal tissue.” Yet here, in today’s documents and exhibits, we see the following: A procurement business brochure and website that urges “partner with us and improve the profitability of your clinic ... improve your clinic’s bottom line ... financially profitable.” That procurement business offers a payment per tissue to abortion clinics and offers to do all the work. The Abortion Clinic appears to have no costs. It appears to be precisely about profit.Questions of profit and legality matter because we are talking about people.It matters whether or not procurement businesses broke the law.It matters whether or not abortion clinics line their pockets through the dismemberment and distribution of children—all while receiving tax dollars.It matters because we are talking about the tiny limbs of babies with dignity—the broken yet still precious children of mothers and fathers. It matters whether or not abortion clinics line their pockets through the dismemberment & distribution of children. https://t.co/UgUDq8v6Hr — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) April 20, 2016 As the committee’s exhibits indicate—web pages exist where a customer can click on a drop-down box listing every organ in the baby’s body for sale. Just click on a brain, a heart, eyes, or scalp and then select your gestation period and then proceed to check out and select your shipment method. We should pause to linger here… and our humanity should be repulsed. In this committee room, and across the country, we will have passionate discussions and disagreements over the legality, the justice, and the social implications of abortion policy.Like many of us in this room, like a majority of Nebraskans, and like a majority across the nation, I believe that every baby is precious and worthy of legal protection, even at her earliest phases of development.I am unashamedly pro-life.I understand that others disagree. Our disagreement over abortion will sometimes be heated, but wherever possible, we should look for consensus.Here, on this basic reality, we can and must find agreement: Babies are not the sum of their body parts. Babies are not meant to be bought. Babies are not meant to be sold.Babies are just that—babies. They’re meant to be welcomed and rejoiced over, held and nurtured. Babies are not the sum of their body parts. Babies are not meant to be bought. Babies are not meant to be sold. https://t.co/UgUDq8v6Hr — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) April 20, 2016 Outside of our Congressional responsibilities here, many of us do welcome, hold and nurture children—we adopt, foster, and mentor them and offer hope, support, and encouragement to their parents. Madam Chairman, your work can and does transcend politics.I appreciate also your concern with children born alive inside an abortion clinic and the treatment they receive. When I think of all the survivors of abortion and think about your investigation into the sale of baby parts for profit, it makes born-alive legislation all the more important.The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act has already passed the U.S. House of Representatives by bipartisan vote of 248 to 177.I had the privilege of introducing the Senate companion legislation and invite my colleagues in the Senate—on both sides of the aisle—to work together and pass this bill.This law would simply ensure that babies who survive abortions get a fighting chance by requiring medical attention that would be offered to any other premature baby at the same age.No life is disposable. No child deserves to have her life ended cold and alone—struggling for breath—in an abortion clinic.We Americans frequently cheer for the vulnerable. We fight for the minority. We protect the powerless from the powerful. Baby girls and boys are fighting for their lives.I encourage my colleagues to fight for them and support S. 2066, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act.Madam Chairman, we look forward to monitoring the progress of this investigation, and thank you again for including me in this important hearing.
04.19.2016	"This isn’t about spreadsheets and quarterly reports— it’s about the President’s broken promise that families would have more choices under ObamaCare." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the news that UnitedHealth Group will be pulling out of most of the 34 states where it currently offers plans on the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges. Sasse, the author of "Competition and Choice: A Report on the ACA’s 2016 Exchanges," has been critical of the ACA’s broken promise to offer increased competition. “This isn’t about spreadsheets and quarterly reports— it’s about the President’s broken promise that families would have more choices under ObamaCare. This year, in 36 percent of the nation’s counties, families could pick between only one or two insurers on the exchange and, given today’s news, next year looks like it could be even worse.”
04.18.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement regarding today’s oral arguments before the Supreme Court in United States v. Texas. “Congress—not the executive branch—writes the laws. This is how self-government works: if members of Congress pass bad laws, voters get to fire them. But when unelected bureaucrats ignore or unilaterally rewrite laws, voters are disenfranchised and lose confidence in the American Experiment.“While Nebraskans work through the difficulty, confusion, and heartbreak stemming from executive branch lawmaking, I’m hopeful that the Supreme Court will invalidate the President’s unlawful actions and reaffirm fifth grade civics.” Background: Sasse, an outspoken critic of executive branch legislating, has repeatedly pressed the Department of Homeland Security for clear answers regarding its decision to let a young woman’s killer go free based on the Administration’s November 20, 2014 immigration executive actions.
04.14.2016	"HHS must stop cheating taxpayers." Today U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) introduced legislation to penalize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for illegally prioritizing big insurance companies ahead of taxpayers through the Affordable Care Act’s reinsurance program. “HHS must stop cheating taxpayers. The reinsurance program is a clear case of Washington’s cronyism: families are suffering Obamacare’s consequences but Washington bureaucrats are sending billions of dollars to well-connected insurance companies. Our legislation is simple: if HHS ignores the law to reward insurance companies, Congress will slash their operating budget. HHS must follow the law.” Background: Like the Affordable Care Act’s risk corridor program, the reinsurance program is designed to protect big insurance companies. The law requires the Secretary of HHS to deposit $5 billion total from 2014-2016 to Treasury through the reinsurance program. Rather than make those deposits to the Treasury, HHS has decided to prioritize payments to insurance companies. Ignoring the clear text of the law, HHS has prioritized payments to insurance companies rather than payments to the Treasury: In 2014, the Treasury should have received $2 billion in general fund payments but received nothing even though HHS sent insurance companies the full $8 billion in reinsurance payments they requested. HHS also carried over another $1.7 billion to give insurance companies later. For 2015, HHS said they would give Treasury only $500 million of the $2 billion it should receive but insurers will receive a $7.7 billion payout ($6 billion for 2015 plus the $1.7 billion carried over from 2014). Today Senator Sasse introduced the “Taxpayers Before Insurers Act.” This legislation would slash 50 percent of HHS’ general departmental management fund unless the Secretary of HHS pays the full amount taxpayers are owed. On Febrary 29, Sasse wrote to HHS demanding that the full amount “be deposited into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury before any additional amounts are paid to insurance companies.” Last night, Sasse received a response from HHS that explicitly said that taxpayers are third in line, behind insurance companies and HHS itself. The letter states: “CMS would allocate contributions that are collected first to the reinsurance payment pool and administrative expenses… Once those targets were met the remaining contributions collected for that benefit year would be allocated to the U.S. Treasury.”
04.06.2016	“This isn’t ‘middle class economics,’ it’s Washington elitism.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, issued the following statement on the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule that was finalized today. “This isn’t ‘middle class economics,’ it’s Washington elitism. The rule is built around the Administration’s arrogant assumption that Nebraskans need central planners to pick their financial advisors for them. While this may not harm everyone who can afford big name firms, it is going to make it significantly harder for small businesses and families to access sound financial advice.” Background: Today, the Department of Labor finalized its fiduciary rule to greatly increase regulation of retirement advisors. Under the rule, fiduciary status is expanded to broadly cover individuals receiving compensation for providing advice that is individualized or directed to a specific retirement plan’s sponsor. Last summer, Dan Gallagher, then-Commissioner for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), warned that “Broker-dealers utilizing a commission-based fee structure will find it difficult, if not impossible, to navigate the labyrinth of prohibitions and exemptions contemplated by the proposal, and many will make the unfortunate – yet entirely rational – choice to stop servicing certain retirement accounts.”
04.04.2016	"Director Sarah Saldana’s response to my February 29 letter is bureaucratic nonsense." Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse took the matter of Edwin Mejia (also known as Eswin Mejia) to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Jeh Johnson after receiving "bureaucratic nonsense" from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sarah Saldana.A copy of the Senator's April 4 letter is found below and is available here. Dear Secretary Johnson:Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sarah Saldana’s response to my February 29 letter is bureaucratic nonsense. ICE's response does not attempt to answer why it did not detain an illegal alien who killed an innocent woman and is now on the run as one of ICE’s most wanted.Director Saldana’s handling of this matter shows no regard for the Root family and continues to be an embarrassment to the hard-working men and women at the Department of Homeland Security. I am referring my questions to your office and look forward to a thorough response as soon as possible.Sincerely, Senator Ben Sasse Additional Background: Director Saldana's response (available here) provides biographical information on Mejia and speculates on hypothetical situations. However, the response does not answer Sasse's questions about who was responsible for failing to detain Mr. Mejia and why that decision was made. Director Saldana's letter states that "based on the facts and circumstances known to ICE at the time, no detainer was filed against Mr. Mejia." Sasse's key questions are aimed at uncovering precisely what those facts and circumstances were. Director Saldana provided no answer. To date, Senator Sasse has asked six specific and detailed questions:1. Who exactly at ICE was responsible for evaluating whether Mr. Mejia was a threat to public safety?2. Why did ICE decline to detain Mr. Mejia, despite several requests to do so by the Douglas County Police Department? Were each of these requests denied on a case-by-case basis?3. In its public statement, ICE referenced the November 20, 2014 immigration executive actions. Why does ICE believe that new policy required the agency not to detain Mr. Mejia?4. Did anyone within ICE consider Mr. Mejia a flight risk? What steps were taken to ensure he did not flee the country?5. What is ICE doing now to find Mr. Mejia?6. Do you consider Mr. Mejia to be a threat to public safety?Senator Sasse's original February 29th letter is available here.
03.30.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement this morning regarding the breaking development that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) placed Edwin Mejia (alias: Eswin Mejia) on its Most Wanted list, despite the fact that ICE failed to detain Mejia at the request of local law enforcement in early February."This important development underscores the seriousness of the situation, something ICE should have recognized immediately. Mr. Mejia should not need to be on this list — he should be in jail. ICE originally said that Mr. Mejia was not an 'enforcement priority' but this morning he was placed on their Most Wanted list. The public still does not have a complete account of what went wrong. It is well past time for ICE to make all the facts known so this never happens again."Background:The following was released this morning by ICE as an update to its Most Wanted list: Subject is a 19-year old citizen of Honduras, an at-large illegal alien, currently wanted for motor vehicle homicide. In 2016, Mejia was arrested for felony driving under the influence of liquor, after he struck a vehicle that allegedly caused the death of a young woman. He unlawfully entered the U.S. in 2013 and despite numerous attempts by ICE to locate his whereabouts, he currently remains at-large. Name: Edwin MejiaAlias: Eswin MejiaDate of Birth: June 3, 1996Place of Birth: HondurasSkin Tone: Medium Height: 5’05”Weight: 150 lbs.Eyes: BrownHair: BlackGender: MaleScars/Marks: UnknownLast Known Location: Omaha, NebraskaOccupation: Unknown ICE continues to work with the Omaha Metro Fugitive Task Force to locate and apprehend Mr. Mejia. The ICE Most Wanted list can be found at www.ice.gov. On March 16, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee held a hearing on the security of the U.S. visa program. At the hearing, Sen. Sasse questioned Director Saldana about ICE’s failure to detain Eswin Mejia after he was street racing while drunk and killed Sarah Root.SASSE: My letter to you is 16 days ago. Can you tell me when I'll receive a reply because it has details on all of these questions?SALDANA: Yes. I think we will get your reply within a couple of weeks if that's satisfactory. And if you need it sooner, I'll certainly work to try to get that.SASSE: Can we have it by the end of next week?SALDANA: Yes, you can.The text of the original letter from February 29 can be found below:Dear Director Saldana:I would appreciate your help in understanding a recent decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) not to detain a man suspected both of living in the United States illegally and of killing a young woman, Sarah Root, in a drunk driving incident in Nebraska.On January 31, Eswin Mejia, a 19-year old man, was reportedly street racing in Omaha, Nebraska when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of Ms. Root’s parked vehicle with her inside. She was rushed to the hospital, where she died.For the past month, Nebraskans have grieved the death of Ms. Root, who was killed just hours after graduating from college. It is unspeakably sad that this innocent young woman was robbed of her life just as it was set to begin. Adding to the grief, however, is the justifiable anger over the fact that the man accused of taking her life has vanished without a trace after posting bail. Over the course of the last month, authorities have searched in vain to find Mr. Mejia so he might be brought to justice.I would like to know why Mr. Mejia was ever allowed to leave law enforcement custody in the first place. In addition to being a citizen of Honduras living in the U.S. illegally, the nature of the charges against Mr. Mejia are extremely serious. Prior to killing this young woman, Mr. Mejia was racing recklessly down a busy street with a blood alcohol level three times the legal limit. This was not Mr. Mejia’s first encounter with the law enforcement either. Police previously suspected him of drunk driving, but he skipped a court hearing and a warrant was issued for his arrest. For these reasons, Omaha’s Deputy Police Chief Dave Baker said his department repeatedly asked ICE to detain him. Unfortunately, that request was repeatedly denied.The reason ICE gave to the news media said that detaining Mr. Mejia after he reportedly killed Ms. Root was not consistent with the Department of Homeland Security’s immigration “enforcement priorities.” The full statement from ICE is below.At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, as stated by the Nov. 20, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson, because he had no prior significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record. As such, ICE did not lodge a detainer. Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23, 2017, and it will be up to the immigration courts under the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to determine whether he has a legal basis to remain in the U.S. As you know, the enforcement priorities mentioned above were created as part of the President’s immigration executive actions. The policy requires that ICE give its highest priority to removing illegal aliens who pose a threat “to national security, public safety, and border security.” While this includes those who are convicted of serious crimes, DHS officials are given broad power to “exercise discretion” about whom to detain.DHS has repeatedly said that the use of “prosecutorial discretion” is meant to ensure federal law enforcement officials judge the facts of each situation on a case-by-case basis, and determine threats to national security and public safety.If this man is not a threat to public safety, then who is?To summarize: Mr. Mejia was suspected of living in the country illegally, of driving recklessly down a busy public road, of driving while highly intoxicated on several occasions, of killing a young woman, and of skipping a prior court hearing. Nebraskans look at these facts and wonder how ICE did not consider this man a threat to public safety.Given Mr. Mejia’s disappearance, ICE should explain clearly how it implemented its detention policy in this case. Please provide my office with answers to the following questions prior to Mr. Mejia’s schedule immigration hearing on March 23.1. Who exactly at ICE was responsible for evaluating whether Mr. Mejia was a threat to public safety?2. Why did ICE decline to detain Mr. Mejia, despite several requests to do so by the Douglas County Police Department? Were each of these requests denied on a case-by-case basis?3. In its public statement, ICE referenced the November 20, 2014 immigration executive actions. Why does ICE believe that new policy required the agency not to detain Mr. Mejia?4. Did anyone within ICE consider Mr. Mejia a flight risk? What steps were taken to ensure he did not flee the country?5. What is ICE doing now to find Mr. Mejia?6. Do you consider Mr. Mejia to be a threat to public safety?It is deeply troubling that this was allowed to happen. Given the urgency of this situation, Nebraskans deserve answers. I look forward to a prompt reply.Sincerely,Ben Sasse
03.29.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse today released the following statement after Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) failed to provide an explanation for its failure to detain Eswin Mejia. ICE Director Sarah Saldana committed to the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to provide a response by March 25."This much is clear: an innocent woman was killed, ICE let her killer go free, that man is on the run, and ICE hasn't responded to our questions in a full month," said Sasse. "This is unacceptable: ICE has sat on our letter for a month and ignored Director Saldana's self-imposed deadline of last Friday. The Root family deserves justice and the public deserves answers."Background: On March 16, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee held a hearing on the security of the U.S. visa program. At the hearing, Sen. Sasse questioned Director Saldana about ICE’s failure to detain Eswin Mejia after he was street racing while drunk and killed Sarah Root.SASSE: My letter to you is 16 days ago. Can you tell me when I'll receive a reply because it has details on all of these questions?SALDANA: Yes. I think we will get your reply within a couple of weeks if that's satisfactory. And if you need it sooner, I'll certainly work to try to get that.SASSE: Can we have it by the end of next week?SALDANA: Yes, you can.The text of the original letter from February 29 can be found below:Dear Director Saldana:I would appreciate your help in understanding a recent decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) not to detain a man suspected both of living in the United States illegally and of killing a young woman, Sarah Root, in a drunk driving incident in Nebraska.On January 31, Eswin Mejia, a 19-year old man, was reportedly street racing in Omaha, Nebraska when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of Ms. Root’s parked vehicle with her inside. She was rushed to the hospital, where she died.For the past month, Nebraskans have grieved the death of Ms. Root, who was killed just hours after graduating from college. It is unspeakably sad that this innocent young woman was robbed of her life just as it was set to begin. Adding to the grief, however, is the justifiable anger over the fact that the man accused of taking her life has vanished without a trace after posting bail. Over the course of the last month, authorities have searched in vain to find Mr. Mejia so he might be brought to justice.I would like to know why Mr. Mejia was ever allowed to leave law enforcement custody in the first place. In addition to being a citizen of Honduras living in the U.S. illegally, the nature of the charges against Mr. Mejia are extremely serious. Prior to killing this young woman, Mr. Mejia was racing recklessly down a busy street with a blood alcohol level three times the legal limit.[1] This was not Mr. Mejia’s first encounter with the law enforcement either. Police previously suspected him of drunk driving, but he skipped a court hearing and a warrant was issued for his arrest.[2] For these reasons, Omaha’s Deputy Police Chief Dave Baker said his department repeatedly asked ICE to detain him.[3] Unfortunately, that request was repeatedly denied.The reason ICE gave to the news media said that detaining Mr. Mejia after he reportedly killed Ms. Root was not consistent with the Department of Homeland Security’s immigration “enforcement priorities.” The full statement from ICE is below.At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, as stated by the Nov. 20, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson, because he had no prior significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record. As such, ICE did not lodge a detainer. Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23, 2017, and it will be up to the immigration courts under the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to determine whether he has a legal basis to remain in the U.S.[4] As you know, the enforcement priorities mentioned above were created as part of the President’s immigration executive actions.[5] The policy requires that ICE give its highest priority to removing illegal aliens who pose a threat “to national security, public safety, and border security.” While this includes those who are convicted of serious crimes, DHS officials are given broad power to “exercise discretion” about whom to detain.DHS has repeatedly said that the use of “prosecutorial discretion” is meant to ensure federal law enforcement officials judge the facts of each situation on a case-by-case basis, and determine threats to national security and public safety.[6] If this man is not a threat to public safety, then who is?To summarize: Mr. Mejia was suspected of living in the country illegally, of driving recklessly down a busy public road, of driving while highly intoxicated on several occasions, of killing a young woman, and of skipping a prior court hearing. Nebraskans look at these facts and wonder how ICE did not consider this man a threat to public safety.Given Mr. Mejia’s disappearance, ICE should explain clearly how it implemented its detention policy in this case. Please provide my office with answers to the following questions prior to Mr. Mejia’s schedule immigration hearing on March 23.1. Who exactly at ICE was responsible for evaluating whether Mr. Mejia was a threat to public safety?2. Why did ICE decline to detain Mr. Mejia, despite several requests to do so by the Douglas County Police Department? Were each of these requests denied on a case-by-case basis?3. In its public statement, ICE referenced the November 20, 2014 immigration executive actions. Why does ICE believe that new policy required the agency not to detain Mr. Mejia?4. Did anyone within ICE consider Mr. Mejia a flight risk? What steps were taken to ensure he did not flee the country?5. What is ICE doing now to find Mr. Mejia?6. Do you consider Mr. Mejia to be a threat to public safety?It is deeply troubling that this was allowed to happen. Given the urgency of this situation, Nebraskans deserve answers. I look forward to a prompt reply.Sincerely,Ben Sasse [1] Doan, Chinh, “I-Team: Authorities search for fugitive; questions raised regarding immigration enforcement,” KETV-7 (ABC), February 23, 2016, http://www.ketv.com/news/iteam-authorities-search-for-fugitive-may-be-undocumented-immigrant/38132844.[2] “Teen driver facing motor vehicle homicide charge,” WOWT.com, February 3, 2016, http://www.wowt.com/home/headlines/Two-hurt-one-critically-in-crash-draped-in-questions-367136471.html.[3] Cooper, Todd and Bob Glissmann, “Systemic failures allowed man accused in motor vehicle homicide to vanish,” Omaha World Herald, February 22, 2016, http://www.omaha.com/news/crime/systemic-failures-allowed-man-accused-in-motor-vehicle-homicide-to/article_7bb2a688-8bdb-554f-b795-4381b3e9d464.html.[4] Huston, Warner Todd, “Judge Lets Drunk Illegal Immigrant Go After Killing Nebraska Woman: Hearing Lasted Just Minutes,” Breitbart, February 23, 2106, http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/02/23/more-info-on-how-courts-let-drunk-illegal-go-after-killing-nebraska-woman/.[5]Memorandum from DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson, Released on November 20, 2014, titled, “Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants.” https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/14_1120_memo_prosecutorial_discretion.pdf[6] Website of U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement, “Administration’s Announcement Regarding a New Process to Further Focus Immigration Enforcement Resources on High Priority Cases,” accessed February 29, 2016, https://www.ice.gov/repatriation-faq.
03.28.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement on yesterday's deadly bombings in Pakistan."On Sunday, militant Islam continued its war against defenseless civilians, in this case its targets were Christians peacefully celebrating Easter. Our hearts go out to the friends and family of those who were murdered. This attack reminds us of the barbarity of our enemies and the need to develop a long-term strategy to defeat violent Islam."
03.25.2016	Iowa, Nebraska Senators Seek Clarification on Administration’s Failure to Act U.S. Senators from Iowa and Nebraska are demanding an explanation for why the Obama Administration didn’t detain an undocumented immigrant charged in an Omaha drunk driving incident that led to the death of a young Iowan. Senators Chuck Grassley, Deb Fischer, Joni Ernst and Ben Sasse are not satisfied with a top immigration official’s claims that the driver did not meet the agency’s enforcement priorities because the victim had not yet died from her injuries at the time it was contacted. Eswin Mejia, 19, was drag racing with a blood-alcohol level three times the legal limit when his vehicle collided with that of 21-year-old Sarah Root on January 31. Despite repeated requests by Omaha law enforcement, and the fact that Mejia had a history of skipping court dates, Immigration and Customs Enforcement refused to issue a detainer for Mejia, who was released on bond on February 5. Mejia failed to report to his subsequent court hearing and remains at large. “We are baffled by your testimony that when drunk driving results in serious injury it may not be an enforcement priority, but when it results in death it is,” the Senators wrote in a letter to ICE Assistant Secretary Sarah Saldaña. “We would appreciate a full explanation as to why [Mejia] would be an enforcement priority today, but was not an enforcement priority on February 5, 2016, when – as we understand it – ICE had all of the same information then that it does now.” The Senators’ letter follows a recent Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee hearing, in which Saldaña testified that Mejia was not detained by immigration officials because the agency didn’t have enough time to respond and that Root was injured – not dead – when she claims ICE was first notified. The Senators are now calling on ICE to provide a full timeline of its involvement in the case, any records related to Mejia, and clear explanations for how ICE arrived at its decision not to detain Mejia. Text of the Senators’ letter follows: March 24, 2016 The Honorable Sarah SaldañaAssistant SecretaryU.S. Immigration and Customs EnforcementDepartment of Homeland SecurityWashington, D.C. 20528 Dear Assistant Secretary Saldaña: We write to express concern and follow up on your March 15, 2016 testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. At that hearing, you responded to questions from Senators Sasse and Ernst about the death of Iowan Sarah Root, who was recently killed by a drunk driver in Omaha, Nebraska. While the facts of the case remain elusive following your testimony, we are frustrated by (1) your agency’s determination that Eswin Mejia – an illegal immigrant and the drunk driver who killed Sarah Root – did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, and (2) your attempt to explain that determination. In response to a question by Senator Sasse during the course of the hearing, you asserted a number of reasons for why ICE officials neglected to lodge a detainer on Mejia. First, you suggested that ICE officials simply did not have time, stating that ICE only had a matter of hours – specifically, four hours – between the time the agency was contacted and the time Mejia was to be released. Second, after acknowledging that ICE officials have discretion on a case-by-case basis to issue detainers for illegal immigrants believed to be a threat to public safety, you suggested that perhaps the ICE official making the decision made an unfortunate error in judgment. Finally – and most egregiously – you suggested that ICE neglected to issue a detainer because at the time they were contacted, Sarah Root was seriously injured but had not yet died. We’re especially troubled that you told the committee Mejia was not considered to be an enforcement priority because Sarah Root had not yet died. Not only was this not true – media reports at the time indicated that Sarah Root died before ICE was ever contacted – we cannot understand how Sarah Root’s condition should have had any impact on ICE’s evaluation of Eswin Mejia’s threat to public safety. Mejia crashed into Sarah Root’s car while drag racing drunk at 19-years-old with no valid driver’s license and two prior driving offenses – something you told the committee made him a clear threat to public safety. He was also a flight risk with a history of skipping court dates relating to his driving offenses. We are baffled by your testimony that when drunk driving results in serious injury it may not be an enforcement priority, but when it results in death it is. What is more, we remain concerned that drunk driving – regardless of whether it results in a serious injury or death – would not appear to be an enforcement priority at all if charged as a misdemeanor rather than a felony, especially given Mejia’s legal history. In response to questions from Senator Ernst, you then said Mejia would “absolutely” be an enforcement priority if apprehended today. As addressed in our questions below, we would appreciate a full explanation as to why he would be an enforcement priority today, but was not an enforcement priority on February 5, 2016, when – as we understand it – ICE had all of the same information then that it does now. Finally, we are concerned that, according to Sarah Root’s family, there had been no attempt by ICE to contact them until after Chairman Grassley delivered a speech on this case on March 14, 2016, and Senators Sasse and Ernst raised the issue to you directly during the March 15, 2016 hearing of the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. As you know, Sarah Root died on January 31, 2016, and Mejia posted bail and was released on February 5, 2016. The Omaha Police Department then contacted ICE on February 10, 2016, after Mejia failed to make himself available for a blood alcohol test. It is unclear why ICE took more than one month to reach out to the Root family about the circumstances and whereabouts of Eswin Mejia. Accordingly, we request that you respond to us no later than April 6, 2016, concerning the following: 1. Any document providing a timeline of your agency’s involvement with this case, including the dates and times of the agency’s communications with the Omaha Police or the Douglas County Jail, and the content of those communications. 2. Any document, including emails, voice mail messages, reports, memoranda, or alerts, related to Eswin Mejia or Edwin Mejia. 3. A clear explanation of the reason ICE officials determined that Mejia was not an enforcement priority. 4. A clear explanation of why Mejia, if apprehended today, would “absolutely” be an enforcement priority. 5. Whether you retract any statements you made during the March 15, 2016 hearing before the U.S. Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 6. An explanation of ICE’s policy with respect to communicating with the victims or the families of the victims of crimes committed by illegal immigrants who ICE refuses to take into custody, and any information regarding the agency’s attempt to contact the Root family. We appreciate your cooperation in this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Joni K. Ernst Ben Sasse Deb Fischer
03.22.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement this morning regarding the deadly terror attacks in Brussels."Brussels is the latest battlefield in the fight against violent Islam. Leadership is not found in platitudes that do not name our enemy. The American people deserve a serious, long-term strategy to defeat violent Islam."
03.18.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding the breaking news that Salah Abdeslam was captured today by law enforcement in Brussels. "The capture of Salah Abdeslam is an important development, especially for those hurt or killed in the Paris attacks. However, the civilizational challenge of violent Islam continues. It is an important victory but we cannot forget this decades-long fight will outlast this manhunt."
03.17.2016	This morning, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who this week introduced a resolution condemning genocide against Christians and religious minorities in the Middle East, praised the Administration's decision to officially recognize that ISIS has committed genocide. "This is good news. The Administration made the right call by stating the obvious truth that ISIS is responsible for genocide against Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East. Telling the truth and condemning genocide against those who seek to worship or not worship as they see fit is a small but important step to recovering a coherent American foreign policy. This decision does not end the atrocities but it does name them." Background: Today's surprise decision from the Obama Administration comes just days after the House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation authored by Nebraska Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and Nebraska Senator Ben Sasse introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Sasse’s legislation is available online here.
03.15.2016	Today at a Senate Homeland Security Committee hearing, Sarah Saldana, the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), answered pointed questions from U.S. Senator Ben Sasse regarding the death of 21-year old Sarah Root, who was killed in Omaha by an illegal alien."Today, ICE—whose primary job is public safety—admitted that Mr. Mejia was a threat to public safety but they did nothing. After today’s hearing, we are not any closer to a clear account of what went wrong," said Sasse. "I am disheartened by ICE’s excuses and evolving explanations. ICE has promised to provide a full accounting of what happened by March 25th—I look forward to their response."Background:As Senator Sasse’s February 29 letter to ICE (available here) made clear, ICE’s own detention policy is to help remove “those individuals who pose a threat to public safety.”During today’s exchange at the hearing, Director Saldana admitted to Sasse that someone who street races while drunk and then kills another person is a threat to public safety. This amounts to an admission that ICE made a mistake when it failed to detain Eswin Mejia.Below is a partial transcript of the exchange, highlighting ICE’s admission. SASSE: “Do you think someone who street races while drunk and then kills another person is a threat to public safety?”SALDANA: “Yes.”Additionally, ICE gave a different account today of its decision to not detain Mr. Mejia.In February, ICE explained: “At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, as stated by the Nov. 20, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson,because he had no prior significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record. As such, ICE did not lodge a detainer. Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23, 2017, and it will be up to the immigration courts under the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to determine whether he has a legal basis to remain in the U.S.”Today, ICE explained: “We tried to act, sir. But I believe there was a matter of hours between the time that we were contacted and the actual release. It is very hard for us to get to every inquiry that is made by law enforcement. Unfortunately, had a horrible consequence here. We try very hard to respond as quickly as possible. We just can't get to every site within a matter of hours. I think it was four hours here, if I’m remembering correctly.”Video and a full transcript of the Senator’s remarks are available here:SASSE: Thank you Mr. Chairman – Director Saldana, in January, 21-year-old Sarah Root was killed in Omaha by an illegal alien named Eswin Mejia. He was street driving while drunk. This was not the first time that local police had arrested Mr. Mejia for driving drunk and after he was arrested for the incident he posted bail. Prior to being released from jail, however, local police contacted ICE and requested that he be detained because of his immigration status – ICE, however, refused and said that would not be consistent with the President’s immigration executive actions. Mejia was released and disappeared. Do you think someone who street races while driving drunk and kills another person is a threat to public safety?SALDANA: Yes.SASSE: If an illegal alien kills an American citizen should ICE let that person go free?SALDANA: Go free?SASSE: Which is what happened here.SALDANA: There will be criminal consequences.SASSE: We don’t know where the man is.SALDANA: Right…and Sir, I don’t understand where you got your information with refusing to deal with this individual – that’s not my understanding of the facts.SASSE: This is ICE’s public comment. ICE has said that in response to Omaha law enforcement who said they requested that ICE detain him.SALDANA: I am ICE and I don’t recall making that statement, I would not have said that. What we did do, is we look at every individual case like we do here with Mr. Mejia and determine whether a detainer to recommend to local law enforcement is appropriate. As you know, that’s been a subject of much conversation. We are working very hard to get all local law enforcement to work with us on it and we’ve made some great strides; but in this case, I just…there is not a single injury or death that occurs at the hands of an illegal immigrant that doesn’t weigh heavily on me Senator, especially…SASSE: I believe that. I’m going to interrupt because I’m quoting your agency here, this is my letter to you on February 29th – I’m quoting your agency’s public statement, this is footnote four in my letter, do you have the letter of February 29th? Your agency said in response “At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities as stated by the November 14th, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson.”SALDANA: Oh, I understood you to say that we told local law enforcement that we were not going to do anything about him because he did not meet our priorities. That is a statement of fact in one person’s interpretation. Quite frankly, sir, it’s very easy to look back and say that person’s judgment was incorrect, and I have some concerns about that. As I said earlier, every situation we have that results in something as horrific as this, we always try to learn from it, and I’ll be following up to look at the specific individuals involved, how the judgment was formed, and why that was done. But I misunderstood your question, I understood your question to mean we told law enforcement that we’re not going to do that.SASSE: Well, the rest of your statement says, your agency’s statement, not you personally, that Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23rd, 2017. But he was released by the police once he posted bail, they contacted your agency, asked them to detain him, ICE didn’t act. How do you explain that to the family?SALDANA: We acted – we tried to act, sir but I believe there was a matter of hours between the time that we were contacted and the actual release. It is very hard for us to get to every inquiry that is made by law enforcement and unfortunately it had a horrible consequence here. But, we try very hard to respond as quickly as possible, we just can’t get to every site within a matter of hours. I think it was four hours here if I’m not – if I’m remembering correctly?SASSE: I don’t know that fact.SALDANA: But, that is a fact, that we try very hard to get and respond to local law enforcement. It doesn’t do us any good to tell them to cooperate with us if we’re not going to respond.SASSE: My letter to you is 16 days ago, can you tell me when I’ll receive a reply, because it has details on all of these questions.SALDANA: Yes, I think we will get you a reply within a couple of weeks if that’s satisfactory, and if you need it sooner I’ll certainly work to try to get that –SASSE: Could we have it by the end of next week?SALDANA: Yes, you can.SASSE: Thank you, ma’am. SASSE: General Roth in November 2014 Secretary Johnson issued a number of memos changing DHS policies on immigration known collectively as the President’s immigration executive actions. One of these memos addressed changes to ICE's detention policy for illegal aliens. DHS said in that memo that it was designed to identify threats to public safety, specifically it says that unless an illegal alien has been charged with a serious crime, ICE will not likely detain that person. Does this policy mean that ICE does not consider someone a threat to public safety unless they have already been convicted? ROTH: Frankly, I was not involved in writing that memo or developing that policy, so it’s difficult for me to respond to that. SASSE: To your knowledge though are ICE officials required strictly to follow the new policy or is it used as guidance and then there is discretion on a case-by-case basis? ROTH: Again, we have not looked at that in any kind of audit or investigative aspects so I think it's best directed to members of the administration or to ICE.SASSE: Does the IG office have any plans or any current studies of the President's executive actions on immigration? ROTH: We do not. SASSE: Director Saldana, how should ICE officials implement the new detention policies that were put in place on November of 2014 with regard to cases like this? You mentioned the timing point, can you give us a broad sense on how you exercise your discretion? SALDANA: Well generally speaking, and let me address the tail end of that question that you had and that is requirement of conviction. I'm happy to share with you this card that we have that we provide to all our ICE officers who are involved in this activity, but there are many categories here where conviction is not necessary. If this is a person with a gang affiliation, no conviction is necessary. If this is a person with terrorist ties, no conviction is necessary. There are several that do involve a conviction but let me point out to you, sir -- and I have met with all of our field office directors to specify clearly to them, that there is always this category which is kind of an umbrella category that says if there -- if this does not fit a specific case but you as an informed, well-trained officer of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement believe that person presents a public safety threat, you are free to exercise your judgment and the manner consistent with that judgment.SASSE: In this case, Sarah Root is dead. So what if someone kills a U.S. citizen, that doesn't meet the threshold? SALDANA: That was after the fact, sir. What you are saying is I understand that that person was injured and had not -- within that four-hour period of time, seriously injured, but had not passed away until later. Again, sir, it's easy to look back and say that judgment was poorly exercised, and as I said earlier, I intend to learn from this particular incident. I feel terrible for the Root family and -- but I can say I wish I had 100% fool-proof method to ensure and to look in the future and to ensure whether somebody is going to commit a crime or not. And it's very difficult to do that. I hope you don’t –- I hope you take my word that we do the best we can. SBS: I hear you. But it isn’t the case he was released and then went and had another drunk driving street racing case. This was drunk driving street racing that killed someone. Then he posted bond. Then the Omaha police asked that he be detained. ICE didn’t detain him, and now he’s fled.SALDANA: And I attend to use this again, I am going to look further into this and use it for lessons learned if there were serious errors of judgment here. But many times prosecutorial discretion is just that, it is a judgment being exercised by the person based on what they see at the time. SASSE: Thank you.
03.14.2016	Today as the United States House of Representatives led by Nebraska Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) considers a resolution denouncing genocide against Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) introduced companion legislation in the United States Senate. “Freedom of religion is enshrined in America's First Amendment— but it belongs to every man and woman around the globe. As a people blessed to live freely, we have an obligation to unequivocally repudiate atrocities committed against any of God’s children who seek merely to worship as they see fit. That starts by calling brutal violence against Christians, Yazidis, and others in the Middle East what it is—genocide.”Background: The Senator’s legislation is available online here. It is the companion to legislation considered by the House of Representatives tonight.
03.14.2016	Competition and Choice: A Report on the ACA's 2016 Exchanges Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued "Competition and Choice: A Report on the ACA's 2016 Exchanges." Using new data, this first of its kind congressional report provides a detailed, county-by-county analysis of consumer choice on the Affordable Care Act's (ACA) 2016 exchanges."This new data offers a grim picture of competition on the exchanges but, for millions of Americans, this isn't about spreadsheets—it’s about Washington's empty promises," said Sasse. "The Affordable Care Act has fallen short of the Administration's false claims. This report is a reminder that health care in this country is in serious need of true, patient-centered reform." The full report is available here and key findings are summarized below. State-Level Competition: 2015 Exchanges vs. 2016 Exchanges In 2015, there were a total of 307 insurers selling coverage on the exchanges nationwide. In 2016, there are 289 insurers selling coverage on the exchanges nationwide, representing a decline in competition of nearly 6 percent from 2015 to 2016. County-Level Competition: Monopolies and Duopolies More than 36 percent of all counties have a monopoly or duopoly, meaning they have only one or two insurers offering coverage on the exchange there. Another 26.8 percent of counties have only three insurers, totaling 63 percent of the nation's counties with three or fewer insurers to choose from in 2016. Only 8.2 percent of the nation's counties have more than five insurers to choose among on the exchanges. Noteworthy States In Texas, there are 16 insurers selling coverage on the state’s exchange in 2016 – a number far higher than in most states. However, for those living in Texas, no one can choose from 16 insurers. Rather, two-thirds of the state’s counties have only one or two insurers offering coverage—a monopoly or duopoly. Only a single county – Bexar County – has even half the number of total insurers with eight. All others have fewer than half of the state total. Using the Heritage Foundation's count of pre-ACA 2013 insurers, Nebraska is one of the few states that has the same level of insurer competition as the pre-ACA market. Despite being among the more rural states, Nebraska has nearly equal competition among four insurers across the state’s 93 counties. In Utah, there are four insurers selling coverage on the exchange but consumers in 69 percent of the state’s counties have no choice at all. In those counties, only a single insurer is selling coverage. In Wyoming, only one insurer offers coverage on the exchange, creating a monopoly at both the state and county levels. In West Virginia, 82 percent of the state’s counties have only one insurer and the other 18 percent of counties have two. In Wisconsin, there are 16 insurers selling coverage, but only one out of 72 counties has nine insurers, and 45 counties (62.5 percent) have five or fewer insurers to choose from on the exchange. In California, there are twelve insurers offering coverage on the 2016 exchange but the average amount of insurer choice among all its counties is four. The Need for Health Reform The ACA’s exchanges have not increased insurer competition or consumer choice as originally promised. The 2016 exchanges are significantly less competitive than the individual market was prior to the ACA’s implementation. Nationally, there has been a net decline in insurer competition from last year’s exchanges. Consumers face limited choice in a majority of the nation’s counties and in some instances have no choice of insurer if they purchase on the exchange. The limited insurer competition, in combination with the ACA’s benefit mandates and taxes, has drastically increased the cost of coverage since taking effect in 2014. Premiums and deductibles continue to rise in 2016. Unfortunately, the promise of increased competition and lower prices has not been fulfilled. To a large extent, Americans have fewer options thanks to the ACA’s flawed policies.
03.14.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse announced that he will be co-hosting the 2016 Academy and Military Information Day alongside U.S. Senator Deb Fischer and U.S. Congressman Jeff Fortenberry. What: 2016 Academy and Military Information Day Who: Students and parents interested in the Congressional Nomination process for the U.S. Service Academies and other military opportunities Where: Lincoln Southwest High School7001 South 14th Street Lincoln, NE 68512 When: Saturday, March 19th Open between 9:00 AM to 12:00 PMProgram begins at 10:00 AM
03.10.2016	Everyone in this hearing — Republican or Democrat — has a duty to their constituents to get the whole story. Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, issued the following statement regarding an oversight hearing on the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program."Today’s hearing is about the families who lost their health care plans, the taxpayers who were swindled, the bureaucrats who mismanaged the program, and the local governments who had to cut budgets from firefighters and schools to make up for Washington’s failures. Everyone in this hearing — Republican or Democrat — has a duty to their constituents to get the whole story."Last October, Sasse announced his intent to block consideration and confirmation of every HHS nominee—and oppose the fast-tracking of those nominees—until the Administration gave an accounting of the systematic failures of the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program, including CoOportunity in Nebraska and Iowa. After months of stonewalling, HHS provided new documents, financial reports, and additional information and Sasse lifted his holds in December. Sasse's full statement, as prepared for delivery, is found below: "Chairman Portman and Ranking Member Tester, thank you for holding this important hearing today. I first want to acknowledge our colleague and ranking member, Senator Claire McCaskill. We all wish her well and a speedy return to the Senate. "Today’s hearing is about the families who lost their health care plans, the taxpayers who were swindled, the bureaucrats who mismanaged the program, and the local governments who had to cut budgets from firefighters and schools to make up for Washington’s failures. Everyone in this hearing — Republican or Democrat— has a duty to their constituents to get the whole story. "The Affordable Care Act’s Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan program created 23 non-profit health insurers using $2.4 billion in 'loans' from federal taxpayers. "Less than a year into operation, the financial condition of many of these CO-OPs was unstable at best. As today’s report shows, CMS’s own private consultant, Deloitte, warned that this was the case. Despite this, CMS continued to disburse loans and even awarded additional loans. Since then, 12 have gone out of business, representing a CO-OP program failure rate of more than 50 percent. "Sadly, there were about 740,000 people covered by these 12 defunct insurance companies that were given $1.2 billion in 'loans' from taxpayers. As we’ve suspected for sometime, this subcommittee’s report concludes the loans will probably never be repaid. "When these companies failed, they imposed varying degrees of disruption on their enrollees and the market within which they operated. "Unfortunately, the mess caused by this program began in my state with the abrupt failure of CoOportunity Health. "While CoOportunity was headquartered in Iowa, it operated in both Nebraska and Iowa. The newly created insurer was given a total of $145 million in taxpayer-funded loans. Things seemed to be going well at first when CoOportunity announced they had signed-up far more enrollees that they had originally anticipated. "However, despite ample funding and enrollees, on December 16, 2014, as people were signing up for 2015 coverage, the Iowa Insurance Commissioner placed CoOportunity under a supervision order. By January 2015, the Iowa Insurance Commissioner said rehabilitation of CoOportunity would be impossible and sought a court order for liquidation. After just one year of operation, the new nonprofit health insurer collapsed. "When CoOportunity failed, a total of 120,000 enrollees, a majority of which are Nebraskans, had their coverage canceled and were forced to find a new insurance company. "But the collateral damage from CoOportunity’s failure does not end there for Nebraskans. "CoOportunity owed millions of dollars to doctors and hospitals for claims made by its enrollees. "To address this kind of thing, the State of Nebraska has a guaranty fund that pays claims in the event that an insurance company, such as CoOportunity, fails. The guaranty fund is primarily financed by assessments on insurance companies selling similar health plans in the state. To help pay for CoOportunity’s unpaid claims, insurers in Nebraska were assessed fees totaling $46.8 million in 2015. It should be noted that this sum was not even enough to cover CoOportunity’s losses and that the guaranty fund had to take out a loan. As CoOportunity has no remaining assets, it’s improbable that the guaranty fund will ever be repaid the $46.8 million that was assessed onto insurers in the market. "In other words, these insurers had to pay CoOportunity’s outstanding bills and there is no reason to believe that CoOportunity will pay them back. As a result, Nebraska tax revenues will decrease by $46.8 million because insurers are able to reduce their tax liability by the amount of their contribution. "This means that the state government will have this much less revenue to pay for state priorities like education, roads, and firefighters. Thus, Nebraskans have to pay for this Obamacare failure again, on top of the $145 million in federal loans given to CoOportunity. "As previously mentioned, 11 other CO-OPs failed in addition to CoOportunity, likely initiating variations of this story across 11 other states in 2015. "Moreover, depending on the viability of the 11 remaining CO-OPs, it could happen in more states this year to more consumers. Indeed, of the 11 CO-OPs remaining in operation, we know that as of February 25, CMS had placed eight on Corrective Action Plans. In addition, updated financial reports show that conditions have gravely worsened for the four CO-OPs with data available for the fourth quarter of 2015. "Despite this mess, CMS has offered little in terms of a significant explanation. "I’ve been questioning the Department of Health and Human Services since last May about all of this. I’ve sent four letters over that period and working alongside Chairman Portman to request documents to unearth the cause of this CO-OP debacle. "HHS owes all CO-OP enrollees, federal taxpayers, and taxpayers in my state answers. I look forward to finding some today from our witness panel."
03.09.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after Attorney General Loretta Lynch admitted that the Obama Administration is currently prohibited by law from transferring terrorists at Guantanamo Bay to the United States. “President Obama’s Attorney General and Secretary of Defense have now publicly affirmed what the American people already know— the President is bound by the law and cannot transfer terrorists to the United States. Today’s comments from the Attorney General are a welcome break from an Administration that frequently circumvents the rule of law.”
03.06.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the death of former First Lady Nancy Reagan: "Melissa and I hold the Reagan family in our prayers. Nebraskans are grateful for the First Lady's strength, poise, and grace. Her commitment to her husband, her children, and her country are a stirring reminder of the power of love."
03.02.2016	"It is unbelievably heartbreaking that DHS would not recognize that this man is a threat to public safety." This week, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse pressed for answers from the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a component of the Department of Homeland Security, regarding its decision not to detain Eswin Mejia, a man suspected of living illegally in the United States and of killing Sarah Root in a drunk driving incident. “It is unbelievably heartbreaking that DHS would not recognize that this man is a threat to public safety. The department has a duty to provide clear answers about why it would let someone go who had just killed another person. Nebraskans deserve to know what DHS is doing to right this wrong.” In response to media inquiries, ICE officials said the agency did not detain Mr. Mejia because it was prevented from doing so by the President’s immigration executive actions. The executive actions require ICE to evaluate every request for detention on a case-by-case basis to determine if people are threats to public safety. Full text of the Senator’s letter to Director Saldana is found below. Dear Director Saldana: I would appreciate your help in understanding a recent decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) not to detain a man suspected both of living in the United States illegally and of killing a young woman, Sarah Root, in a drunk driving incident in Nebraska. On January 31, Eswin Mejia, a 19-year old man, was reportedly street racing in Omaha, Nebraska when he violently crashed his pickup truck into the back of Ms. Root’s parked vehicle with her inside. She was rushed to the hospital, where she died. For the past month, Nebraskans have grieved the death of Ms. Root, who was killed just hours after graduating from college. It is unspeakably sad that this innocent young woman was robbed of her life just as it was set to begin. Adding to the grief, however, is the justifiable anger over the fact that the man accused of taking her life has vanished without a trace after posting bail. Over the course of the last month, authorities have searched in vain to find Mr. Mejia so he might be brought to justice. I would like to know why Mr. Mejia was ever allowed to leave law enforcement custody in the first place. In addition to being a citizen of Honduras living in the U.S. illegally, the nature of the charges against Mr. Mejia are extremely serious. Prior to killing this young woman, Mr. Mejia was racing recklessly down a busy street with a blood alcohol level three times the legal limit.[1] This was not Mr. Mejia’s first encounter with the law enforcement either. Police previously suspected him of drunk driving, but he skipped a court hearing and a warrant was issued for his arrest.[2] For these reasons, Omaha’s Deputy Police Chief Dave Baker said his department repeatedly asked ICE to detain him.[3] Unfortunately, that request was repeatedly denied. The reason ICE gave to the news media said that detaining Mr. Mejia after he reportedly killed Ms. Root was not consistent with the Department of Homeland Security’s immigration “enforcement priorities.” The full statement from ICE is below. At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, as stated by the Nov. 20, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson, because he had no prior significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record. As such, ICE did not lodge a detainer. Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23, 2017, and it will be up to the immigration courts under the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to determine whether he has a legal basis to remain in the U.S.[4] As you know, the enforcement priorities mentioned above were created as part of the President’s immigration executive actions.[5] The policy requires that ICE give its highest priority to removing illegal aliens who pose a threat “to national security, public safety, and border security.” While this includes those who are convicted of serious crimes, DHS officials are given broad power to “exercise discretion” about whom to detain. DHS has repeatedly said that the use of “prosecutorial discretion” is meant to ensure federal law enforcement officials judge the facts of each situation on a case-by-case basis, and determine threats to national security and public safety.[6] If this man is not a threat to public safety, then who is? To summarize: Mr. Mejia was suspected of living in the country illegally, of driving recklessly down a busy public road, of driving while highly intoxicated on several occasions, of killing a young woman, and of skipping a prior court hearing. Nebraskans look at these facts and wonder how ICE did not consider this man a threat to public safety. Given Mr. Mejia’s disappearance, ICE should explain clearly how it implemented its detention policy in this case. Please provide my office with answers to the following questions prior to Mr. Mejia’s schedule immigration hearing on March 23. Who exactly at ICE was responsible for evaluating whether Mr. Mejia was a threat to public safety? Why did ICE decline to detain Mr. Mejia, despite several requests to do so by the Douglas County Police Department? Were each of these requests denied on a case-by-case basis? In its public statement, ICE referenced the November 20, 2014 immigration executive actions. Why does ICE believe that new policy required the agency not to detain Mr. Mejia? Did anyone within ICE consider Mr. Mejia a flight risk? What steps were taken to ensure he did not flee the country? What is ICE doing now to find Mr. Mejia? Do you consider Mr. Mejia to be a threat to public safety? It is deeply troubling that this was allowed to happen. Given the urgency of this situation, Nebraskans deserve answers. I look forward to a prompt reply. Sincerely, Ben Sasse [1] Doan, Chinh, “I-Team: Authorities search for fugitive; questions raised regarding immigration enforcement,” KETV-7 (ABC), February 23, 2016,http://www.ketv.com/news/iteam-authorities-search-for-fugitive-may-be-undocumented-immigrant/38132844. [2] “Teen driver facing motor vehicle homicide charge,” WOWT.com, February 3, 2016,http://www.wowt.com/home/headlines/Two-hurt-one-critically-in-crash-draped-in-questions-367136471.html. [3] Cooper, Todd and Bob Glissmann, “Systemic failures allowed man accused in motor vehicle homicide to vanish,” Omaha World Herald, February 22, 2016,http://www.omaha.com/news/crime/systemic-failures-allowed-man-accused-in-motor-vehicle-homicide-to/article_7bb2a688-8bdb-554f-b795-4381b3e9d464.html. [4] Huston, Warner Todd, “Judge Lets Drunk Illegal Immigrant Go After Killing Nebraska Woman: Hearing Lasted Just Minutes,” Breitbart, February 23, 2106,http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/02/23/more-info-on-how-courts-let-drunk-illegal-go-after-killing-nebraska-woman/. [5]Memorandum from DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson, Released on November 20, 2014, titled, “Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants, https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/14_1120_memo_prosecutorial_discretion.pdf. [6] Website of U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement, “Administration’s Announcement Regarding a New Process to Further Focus Immigration Enforcement Resources on High Priority Cases,” accessed February 29, 2016,https://www.ice.gov/repatriation-faq.
03.01.2016	“Defense Secretary Carter gets it: We are a nation of laws." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse praised Defense Secretary Carter on his commitment to the rule of law regarding the closure of Guantanamo Bay. “Defense Secretary Carter gets it: We are a nation of laws," said Sasse. "His recognition yesterday that Guantanamo detainees cannot be transferred to the US without Congressional action is a welcome change from the Administration’s frequent efforts to operate outside of the Constitution.” Background: On Monday, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter told reporters that he supported closing the Guantanamo detention facility, but admitted the the President cannot do so unilaterally. "So it is good if it can be done, but it cannot be done under current law. The law has to be changed," Carter said.
02.23.2016	“President Obama has again made it clear that he believes he is above the law.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s plan to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer terrorists to the United States. “President Obama has again made it clear that he believes he is above the law. His plan disregards the will of the American People expressed through Congress and flagrantly violates the very obligations he signed into law. “Last November, the President signed legislation requiring him to submit for Congressional consideration a specific ‘plan for the disposition’ of Guantanamo detainees, including ‘the specific facility or facilities’ where these detainees could be moved if Congress agrees. President Obama has ignored his legal responsibility by submitting a plan that intentionally omits these specific details. His decision is lawless – and it not only hinders our war against violent Islam; it also undermines public trust in the rule of law.”Background: Current law is clear and available here and below. National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016: SEC. 1035 SEC. 1035. COMPREHENSIVE DETENTION STRATEGY.(a) In General.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence, submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the details of a comprehensive strategy for the detention of current and future individuals captured and held pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107–40) pending the end of hostilities. (b) Elements.—The report required by subsection (a) shall contain the following: (1) The specific facility or facilities that are intended to be used, or modified to be used, to hold individuals for purpose of trial and incarceration after conviction or detention and interrogation pursuant to the law of armed conflict. (2) The estimated costs associated with the detention of individuals detained for purpose of trial, incarceration after conviction, or continued detention under the law of armed conflict, including the costs of— (A) improvements, additions, or changes to each facility specified pursuant to paragraph (1);(B) construction of new facilities, if any;(C) maintenance, operation, and sustainment of any such facility;(D) security;(E) military, civilian, and contractor support personnel; and(F) other matters associated with support of detention operations. (3) A plan for the disposition of such individuals if the authority to continue detaining an individual pursuant to the law of armed conflict were to expire while such individual is being detained, and an assessment of possible actions that could be taken to mitigate any adverse implications of such a scenario to the national security interests of the United States. (4) A plan for the disposition of individuals held pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force who are currently detained at the United States Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. (5) A plan for the disposition of future detainees held pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force. (6) The additional authorities, if any, necessary to detain an individual pursuant to the law of armed conflict as an unprivileged enemy belligerent pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force pending the end of hostilities or a future determination by the Secretary of Defense that such individual no longer requires continued detention. (c) Form.—The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
02.18.2016	Standing outside the Supreme Court to deliver a message to President Obama, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse makes it clear that he is unwilling to consent to any nomination because of President Obama's current "'I have a pen and I have a phone’ theories of executive unilateralism." "While there are important precedent arguments about election year vacancies, conservatives should also make the principled case for what is at stake in this moment with a post-constitutional President," said Sasse. “My message to President Obama is clear: repudiate the post-constitutional way you’ve been governing and this could be an opportunity for Americans to come together for a constitutional recovery.” "Mr. President, that flag is at half-mast because America has lost a constitutional giant in Justice Scalia. Bizarrely, our national media immediately descended into bickering about Republicans and Democrats."When I read my Constitution, I don’t see anything about Republican or Democratic seats on the Supreme Court. So let’s just forget all that and let’s instead talk about our jobs. Because you and I actually have one fundamental, core job in common."We’ve both taken an oath to uphold and defend and teach the Constitution. One sub-part of your job is that, when there’s a vacancy on the Supreme Court, you have the right to nominate someone to fill it. One sub-part of my job is that I’m supposed to provide advice and consent on who you might nominate. Mr. President, I’m here to provide you some advice on how you would get my consent."I recommend that you take your potential nominee and go and stand in the Rose Garden and have that nominee explicitly repudiate your ‘I have a pen and I have a phone’ theories of executive unilateralism."You have said in the past that it doesn’t matter to you if the Congress passes the laws you want them to pass because you can just make up law by executive fiat. Sir, that’s not the American system."The American people are blessed to be the most exceptional nation the world has ever known and it is because the U.S. Constitution is the most exceptional political document ever written. Our Founders understood that government doesn’t give us rights—God gives us rights by nature and government is just our shared project to secure those rights."Our Founders also understood that those who serve in government are always tempted to want to amass more and more power for themselves—and power corrupts. So they devised a constitutional system with three separate branches. They divided government and these three separate branches are supposed to check and balance one another and all of them are supposed to uphold and defend a constitutional system of limits."So regularly, the media acts like everything is just a fight about energy policy, or immigration policy, or water policy—no, fundamentally, we are supposed to affirm a constitutional system where the people are in charge and the people can hire and fire those who serve them."Mr. President, I advise you to please nominate someone who loves the Constitution and who will repudiate your theory of ‘I have a pen and I have a phone’ executive unilateralism. That’s my advice on how you’d get my consent. Thanks for listening."
02.13.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “A tireless defender of the rule of law, Justice Scalia’s precise thinking, sharp wit, and unwavering commitment to American constitutionalism will be remembered for generations. We are grateful for his service and heartbroken at this sudden loss. Melissa and I uphold the Scalia family in our thoughts and prayers.”
02.12.2016	by U.S. Senator Ben Sasse This year, our Senior Senator Deb Fischer is undertaking an important project to honor Nebraska’s fallen heroes. Senator Fischer will honor the 77 Nebraskans who have died in the war against militant Islam in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001. These Nebraskans paid the highest price for the freedoms that all of us enjoy each and every day. They fought so that families in Fremont can worship freely; they bled so that the Rotary club in Kearney can meet on Wednesday mornings; they gave their lives to ensure that folks from Scottsbluff to Lincoln can voice their opinions in newspapers, on Facebook, and in person. This year marks the 15th anniversary of the attacks that brought global jihadism to our doorstep. Although the fight against militant Islam will continue for decades, it is important to pause and remember those who have died to defend our founding principles. In January, I had the great privilege of presiding over the Senate as Senator Fischer began this project by honoring Joshua A. Ford. A specialist from Pender, who was killed in Iraq in 2006, he was remembered lovingly by his family as “ornery but extremely caring.” Sgt. Ford joined the Nebraska Army National Guard after his junior year of high school. While other kids spent their summers mowing lawns and detasseling corn, Sgt. Ford went to what he called “Fat Man’s Camp,” getting in shape for the military. Basic training helped him shed some extra pounds, but it also made him a man. Sgt. 1st Class Brad Wieland said he watched Sgt. Ford grow up from a “kid to a soldier almost overnight." In 2005, Sgt. Ford was deployed to Iraq. By all counts, the heavy-vehicle driver was enthusiastic and friendly. A man of courage and resolve, he was reliable and often volunteered for extra missions. Active duty made him intentional and focused. During a short leave, he proposed to his girlfriend, Michelle, and made an audio will for his family and friends. His dad, Lonnie, said he wanted people to celebrate his life. On July 31, 2006, six months before he was supposed to return home, Sgt. Ford was killed on a routine patrol near Al Numaniyah, when an explosive device ripped through the truck he was driving. He was only 20 years old. Sgt. Ford's life is just one of many stories of courage. As Nebraskans have faithfully answered their country’s call, we must honor and celebrate the lives and service of all our fallen heroes. In the face of great danger and evil, these patriots stepped out in bravery and paid the ultimate cost. We cannot thank them enough. We cherish the freedoms they defended. Senator Fischer has done all of us a great service by commemorating these stories. Her initiative reminds us of the important principles that established our great nation and the men and women who have died protecting those freedoms. I am greatly moved by these stories and grateful for Senator Fischer's leadership. I hope families all across Nebraska will join me in following this series. We will not forget our fallen heroes.
02.11.2016	"The Millennium Challenge Corporation is blessed to have this Nebraskan roll up his sleeves and lead the fight against global poverty.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after the Senate unanimously confirmed former Nebraska Governor, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, and U.S. Senator Mike Johanns to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. “Nebraskans are proud to share our statesman with the world. As our Governor, our Secretary of Agriculture, and our United States Senator, Mike was unwaveringly committed to servant leadership. The Millennium Challenge Corporation is blessed to have this Nebraskan roll up his sleeves and lead the fight against global poverty.”
02.10.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding today's vote on the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. “Beijing may have put North Korea on a long leash but make no mistake: Kim Jong Un is a two-bit dictator. North Korea’s cyber attacks, ballistic missile provocations, and nuclear expansion are a direct threat to South Korea, Japan, and the American people. These sanctions send a message to our allies and adversaries in the region.”
02.09.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement regarding the news that WR Reserve, a beef processing company in Hastings, will ship Nebraska beef to Israel. This will be the first significant American shipment to Israel since 2003. “Nebraskans are proud to feed the world. Through their hard work and uncompromising commitment to quality, Nebraska beef producers are second to none. This agreement will benefit our state and our friends in Israel.”
02.09.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement tonight after the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay on the EPA’s new and heavy-handed regulations on coal-fired power plants. “Sadly it’s not surprising that the same Administration that brags about circumventing Congress with its pen and phone was rebuked today. The Obama era owns the record for executive overreach and has been struck down by the Supreme Court time after time. The EPA is not a super-legislature and this stay is an important step toward having the American people— not unelected bureaucrats— set energy policy.”
02.03.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse and Nebraska Director of Agriculture Greg Ibach U.S. Senator Ben Sasse hosted a Capitol Reception to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture (NASDA). NASDA represents the State Departments of Agriculture by coordinating policy and partnerships between the departments and the federal government. Greg Ibach, Nebraska’s Director of Agriculture and President of NASDA, introduced Senator Sasse at the event. In September of this year, NASDA will gather in Lincoln for the group’s annual meeting. “I’m thrilled to have welcomed NASDA and President Ibach to the Capitol as the association celebrates their 100th anniversary," said Sasse. "Nebraska is home to the world’s most productive farmers and ranchers – I’m glad that we were able to host NASDA and that they will be joining us in Nebraska later this year.” "NASDA has shown great dedication to agriculture and rural America for 100 years,” said Greg Ibach, NASDA President and Nebraska Director of Agriculture. “Our state departments of agriculture collectively advocate national policy and promotional activities that make sense for farmers, ranchers, agribusiness, and rural communities. It is our intention to continue to lead on behalf of the sector for decades to come. I appreciate Senator Sasse helping us mark this milestone anniversary."
02.03.2016	Yesterday, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed a resolution congratulating the University of Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL) women’s volleyball team on winning the 2015 NCAA Division I Championship. Nebraska Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse introduced the resolution earlier this week. Senator Fischer released the following statement: “The Huskers’ victory brings tremendous pride to the state of Nebraska and loyal fans across the country. I am happy to recognize their outstanding achievement. Congratulations to the team’s talented athletes, coaches, and staff on your incredible national championship win.” Senator Sasse released the following statement: “Go Big Red! Nebraskans couldn’t be more proud ofthis volleyball team, the coaching staff, and the entire Athletic Department. The Cornhuskers won this National Championship trophy the Nebraska way— with hard work, sportsmanship, and heart. “We’re proud of the foundation and winning tradition Coach Pettit and Coach Cook have built.Winning the National Championship in Omaha, and in front a record setting crowd of Huskers fans, is a fitting reward for the best fans in college sports.” The Fischer-Sasse resolution requests that the Secretary of the Senate prepare official copies of the resolution for presentation to the president of the University of Nebraska, UNL’s athletic director, and the head coach of the UNL volleyball team. The full text of the resolution is below. Title: Congratulating the University of Nebraska-Lincoln volleyball team for winning the 2015 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Volleyball Championship. Whereas, on December 19, 2015, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Cornhuskers won the 2015 National Collegiate Athletic Association (referred to in this preamble as the “NCAA”) Division I Volleyball Championship in Omaha, Nebraska in an overwhelming victory over the University of Texas Longhorns by a score of 25 to 23, 25 to 23, and 25 to 21; Whereas the University of Nebraska-Lincoln has won 4 NCAA volleyball Championships; Whereas the Cornhuskers ended their championship season with a 16-match winning streak and finished the year with a record of 32 wins and 4 losses; Whereas all members of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln volleyball team, including Annika Albrecht, Olivia Boender, Kelsey Fien, Mikaela Foecke, Meghan Haggerty, Cecilia Hall, Briana Holman, Kelly Hunter, Kenzie Maloney, Alicia Ostrander, Tiani Reeves, Amber Rolfzen, Kadie Rolfzen, Brooke Smith, Sydney Townsend, and Justine Wong-Orantes, contributed to this outstanding victory; Whereas head coach John Cook, assistant coach Chris Tamas, assistant coach Dani Busboom Kelly, volunteer assistant coach Jen Tamas, director of operations Lindsay Peterson, video coordinator Natalie Morgan, and graduate managers Dan Mader, Mike Owen, and Peter Netisingha guided this outstanding group of women to a national championship; Whereas Mikaela Foecke was named the Most Outstanding Player of the 2015 NCAA Championship; Whereas Justine Wong-Orantes was named the Big Ten Defensive Player of the Year, becoming the first Nebraska player ever to earn that award; Whereas Kadie Rolfzen, Amber Rolfzen, and Justine Wong-Orantes were recognized as All-Americans by the American Volleyball Coaches Association, and Mikaela Foecke and Kelly Hunter received honorable mention; and Whereas an NCAA record-breaking crowd of 17,561 volleyball fans attended the championship game, reflecting the tremendous spirit and dedication of Nebraska fans supporting the Cornhuskers as the team won the national championship: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) congratulates the University of Nebraska-Lincoln volleyball team as the winner of the 2015 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Volleyball Championship; (2) commends the University of Nebraska players, coaches, and staff for their hard work and dedication; (3) recognizes the students, alumni, and loyal fans that supported the Cornhuskers on their journey to win another Division I Championship; and (4) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate prepare an official copy of this resolution for presentation to— (A) the president of University of Nebraska; (B) the athletic director of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln; and (C) the head coach of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln volleyball team. Click here to read the full text of the resolution.
01.21.2016	Today, U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, and U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) formally requested that the Department of Justice investigate whether officials at the EPA "knowingly and willfully violated and are continuing to knowingly and willfully violate" federal law in its covert propaganda campaign to promote its Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule."Something is tremendously wrong when a federal agency thinks it can break the law and illegally spend taxpayer dollars," said Senator Inhofe. "But that is the situation we have right now with EPA and their efforts to fool hardworking Americans about their Waters of the United States rule. EPA must be held accountable, and I look forward to hearing what the Department of Justice finds in their investigation.""The EPA thinks it can stonewall all it wants but no bureaucracy is above the law," said Senator Sasse. "Despite the fact that the Government Accountability Office found that they broke federal law by running a covert propaganda campaign to support their sweeping WOTUS rule, the EPA has doubled down on their lawlessness. It’s time for the Department of Justice to investigate." Full text of the Senators’ letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch is available here and found below. Dear Attorney General Lynch: We write to request that the Department of Justice investigate whether officials at the Environmental Protection Agency knowingly and willfully violated and are continuing to knowingly and willfully violate 31 U.S.C. 1341(a) in its "covert propaganda" and grass roots lobbying campaign to promote the agency’s rules defining "Waters of the United States (WOTUS)." As you know, Section 1341 of the Antideficiency Act prohibits employees of the U.S. government from spending any money not authorized by Congress. While few people may have heard of the Antideficiency Act, it plays an important role in protecting our constitutional system of checks and balances. The Constitution is clear: "No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law." This means the Executive Branch is prohibited from spending even a dollar unless Congress first gives it permission. The requirement springs from the bedrock principle that legislative and executive powers must be kept separate and not concentrated in a single federal entity. Americans understand that the separation of powers is essential to guarantee basic freedoms. The Antideficiency Act is a tool, enshrined in law, designed to defend this basic principle. In effect, it says that any government employee who spends money not authorized by Congress has violated the principle of separation of powers. As the Department of Justice itself has long recognized, a knowing and willful violation of the Antideficiency Act is subject to a $5,000 fine and spend up to two years in prison. We all know how seriously federal agencies consider possible violations of the Antideficiency Act. For example, during a lapse in appropriations the National Park Service barricades national memorials. Federal workers are likewise barred from sending so much as an email to a colleague during a shutdown for fear of a violation. Last month, the Government Accountability Office found that the EPA violated the Antideficiency Act by promoting its WOTUS rules in ways expressly prohibited by Congress. GAO wrote: "As explained below, we conclude that EPA violated the described provisions through its use of social media in association with its rulemaking efforts to define "Waters of the United States" under the Clean Water Act (CWA) during FYs 2014 and 2015. Because EPA obligated and expended appropriated funds in violation of statutory prohibitions, we also conclude that EPA violated the Antideficiency Act, 31, U.S.C. 1341(a)(1)(A), as the agency’s appropriations were not available for these prohibited purposes." Under the Antideficiency Act, EPA must conduct an internal investigation and identify the persons responsible. However, EPA is dismissive of GAO’s legal decision. In fact, even though GAO issued its legal decision on December 14, EPA has not removed from its website the messages that GAO found to be covert propaganda and grass roots lobbying. Raising additional concerns, in a recent court filing in litigation challenging the WOTUS rule, Department of Justice attorneys filed a brief on behalf of EPA that mischaracterized the GAO decision as an opinion letter rather than the formal legal decision that an Antideficiency Act violation had occurred. Under the Antideficency Act, the EPA Administrator must submit a report to Congress detailing the violation and amount of money that was spent illegally. Given EPA’s continuing violations, and the cavalier attitude displayed by EPA public affairs staff and Department of Justice line attorneys, we request the Department of Justice immediately investigate whether a criminal violation of the Antideficiency Act has taken place. Only a thorough and independent investigation can determine whether a crime has occurred. We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to your response. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse U.S. Senator James Inhofe, Chairman Committee on Environment and Public Works
01.20.2016	CANCELED DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER. U.S. Senators Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) will host Nebraskans visiting Capitol Hill for the annual March for Life this Friday, January 22, 2015. Attendees will be greeted with hot chocolate and cookies. Each year, thousands of Americans travel to Washington, D.C. for the March for Life. This peaceful rally draws attention to pro-life policies and marks the anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision, which made abortion legal in the United States. Nebraskans participating in the March for Life are invited to visit the U.S. Senate, where they will be greeted by Senators Fischer and Sasse. Visitors will have the chance to warm up with hot chocolate and cookies. Details are provided below: EVENT Hot chocolate and Cookies for March for Life AttendeesHosted by Senator Fischer and Senator Sasse TIMEFriday, January 22, 20163:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. EST LOCATIONRussell Senate Office BuildingRoom 385Washington, DC 20510
01.20.2016	"Nebraskans are committed to seeing this fight through." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement today, after President Obama’s veto of legislation to repeal the EPA’s controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule last night: "This is far from over— WOTUS still faces a battle in the courts. The President’s disappointing veto sides with overreaching EPA bureaucrats instead of Nebraska’s farmers and ranchers— those who know and care most about agriculture and conservation policy. Nebraskans are committed to seeing this fight through." Background: In December, a report from the Government Accountability Office determined that the EPA broke federal law by engaging in "covert propaganda" to support WOTUS rule. That report is available here. Last spring, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released the final WOTUS rule under the Clean Water Act. The rule would dramatically expand federal authority and with it EPA’s power to levy fines and require additional permits and reporting. In October, the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay on the implementation of WOTUS, noting that the rule has created a "whirlwind of confusion."
01.20.2016	"Here’s the thing about stonewalling: At some point the facts will come to light." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, issued the following statement regarding today’s news that House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) each issued a subpoena to Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew for documents regarding $5 billion in unlawful payments to insurance companies. "Here’s the thing about stonewalling: At some point the facts will come to light. Unfortunately, when it comes to ObamaCare, it’s clear that this Administration feels bound neither to the letter of the law nor to the spirit of transparency. The same bureaucrats who unlawfully paid insurance companies billions of dollars are refusing to answer basic questions. Chairmen Upton and Brady deserve nothing less than the complete and full cooperation of these agencies."
01.16.2016	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding reports that Americans, including Pastor Saeed Abedini, will be released in a prisoner swap with Iran: "God be praised. There is so much wrong in U.S.-Iranian relations, and so much more wrong in Iran, but today let’s celebrate the freedom of these Americans."
01.12.2016	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union Address and ongoing events in the Middle East. "President Obama rightly says we must ‘fix our politics’ – but that starts with leaders doing their first jobs first, instead of politicians claiming competence to run every detail of free people’s lives. The Commander-in-Chief’s primary duty – especially on a day when Iran detains ten U.S. sailors and a suicide bomber murders ten civilians in Turkey – should be to offer a serious plan for actually defeating militant Islam."
01.05.2016	"The President should be bigger than the condescending rhetoric and political cynicism we saw today." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement on President Obama’s gun control remarks. "The President should be bigger than the condescending rhetoric and political cynicism we saw today. Sadly, President Obama is demonizing law-abiding gun owners and undermining the legislative process. This approach will not end heartbreaking tragedies but it will poison public discourse."
12.18.2015	"Here’s what this spending bill is: hundreds of policy decisions, thousands of pages, and more than a trillion dollars passed right before Congress skips town for Christmas." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting against the omnibus spending bill: "Here’s what this spending bill is: hundreds of policy decisions, thousands of pages, and more than a trillion dollars passed right before Congress skips town for Christmas. It’s time for Congress to end this nonsense by doing fewer things—but with greater transparency, deliberation, and urgency. Nebraskans see through Washington's familiar, false choice between 'fund it all' or 'shut the government down.’"
12.17.2015	Today, as promised in his Maiden Speech last month, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse began a series of addresses on the growth of the administrative state, executive unilateralism, and legislative apathy. Excerpts of the Senator’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are found below: "Imagine President Trump has been propelled into the White House... He signs an executive order to turn the Peace Corps into stone masons and build a wall. He shutters the Department of Education and, by executive order, turns the Department of the Interior into the classiest oil company the world has ever known." "So what happens next?... After having raged against a supposedly lawless President [would Republicans] suddenly find that they are actually okay with a strongman President, so long as he’s wearing the same color jersey that they are? He may be a lawless sonuvagun but, some would say, he’s our lawless sonuvagun. Would the ends justify the means?" "... the problem of a weak Congress and executive growth should be bad news to all of us but, more importantly, to every constituent who cast their votes for us under the impression that Congress makes decisions— not just suggestions." "I think the weakness of the Congress is not just undesirable, but is actually a dangerous thing for America... I don’t think this because I am a Republican and the current occupant of the White House is a Democrat. In fact, I think we need to have this debate now precisely because we don’t know who is going to control the White House next." "I think it, rather, because I have taken an oath of office to the Constitution; and I’ll still hold this same view when a Republican president next tries to reach beyond his or her constitutional powers." "In this series of addresses on the growth of the administrative state and on the unbalanced nature of executive branch and legislative branch relations, my goal is not primarily to advocate. My first goal is just to do some history together..."
12.17.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) which has been investigating the CO-OP program for several months under Chairman Rob Portman, issued the following statement regarding his efforts to bring transparency and accountability to HHS’ handling of the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program. “After much delay and obfuscation, HHS has finally come to the table and provided my office access to new documents, financial reports, and additional information. This is simple: HHS gave $1.2 billion to 12 failed CO-OPs that forced families to find new health plans. From the beginning, we’ve asked how and why HHS made their decision to send that money out the door. Given HHS’ recent production of documents and their ensuing commitment to cooperate, I am lifting my hold on pending nominees. As a member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, I will continue working to ensure that taxpayers and victims receive the answers they deserve.”
12.14.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the Government Accountability Office determined that the EPA broke federal law by engaging in "covert propaganda" to support the Obama Administration’s controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. "Let’s not mince words: This is Washington lawlessness. Nebraskans know that WOTUS is terrible policy and everyone should agree that it’s wrong for government bureaucracies to run illegal PR campaigns. This puddle-propaganda was meant to rally support around the Administration’s unilateral re-write of the law. That kind of spin might be commonplace in other parts of the world but that’s not how America works. Nebraskans deserve better and taxpayers everywhere deserve better." Background: Today, a report from the Government Accountability Office determined that the EPA broke federal law by engaging in "covert propaganda" to support the Obama Administration’s controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. That report is available here. This spring, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released the final Waters of the United States rule under the Clean Water Act. The rule would dramatically expand federal authority and with it EPA’s power to levy fines and require additional permits and reporting. In October, the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay on the implementation of WOTUS, noting that the rule has created a "whirlwind of confusion."
12.09.2015	"If Maine's CO-OP is as good as it gets, things seem pretty bleak." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, who has been seeking a full and transparent accounting of the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OPs, issued the following statement after Community Health Options in Maine today announced that it will suspend offering new individual coverage for the 2016 plan year. Community Health Options was loaned $132 million in taxpayer money and, as of the end of 2014, was the only profitable CO-OP, according to a report by the Office of the Inspector General published this past summer. CoOportunity, which operated in Nebraska and Iowa, and 11 other CO-OPs have failed entirely. "If Maine's CO-OP is as good as it gets, things seem pretty bleak. The only CO-OP operating in the black after the first year just announced it will stop accepting new exchange customers after Christmas. It certainly seems like there is something seriously wrong with this program. At least half a million Americans have been forced out of their health plans when 12 CO-OPs failed, but we’re still waiting on HHS to provide a full accounting of what has happened."
12.08.2015	Tonight, Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) spoke on the Senate floor, criticizing Washington's lack of urgency and seriousness in confronting the growing threat of militant Islam. Remarks as prepared for delivery: I rise today to speak about San Bernardino; about the decades-long fight that our free society now faces; and about our dangerous unwillingness to tell the truth about the nature of this battle – about who our enemy is. We are at war. The American people already know this. Our enemies obviously know this. It is only this town – where our so-called leaders dawdle and bicker, pander and misprioritize – it is only this town that seems confused. Washington ignores what it cannot escape. And that is both a tragedy and a crisis. Because no war is winnable when you pretend that you are not even in one. Let’s start by admitting that this war is different from most wars of the past. This is not about borders or territory. This is not about gold or other material goods. We typically think about state actors, about traditional governments going to war with traditional governments. In this war, however, the enemy includes many non-state actors – many armed groups who are developing global reach in this flatter, technologically-linked modern world. Our enemy is merciless and barbaric. They are willing to kill people who are not on traditional battlefields. They will kill non-combatants. They will kill women and children. They will kill at holiday parties and restaurants, at Jewish delis and at sports stadiums. Just as sadly as the evolution of enemies, though, this war is hard for the American people to get our heads around because right now we have so much confusion – so much drift, so much orphanhood – in understanding exactly who we are – and what precisely we are defending. This body, the Congress, tries to do far too many things, and we do few of them well. But when there are really important things we should be doing, well then folks seem unable to muster the time or energy or will to focus diligently on the big task. Today, we have such a big task sitting right in front of us. And I would humbly suggest that before another person in this body – or in the national media – stands up to scold the American people about how they could possibly entertain voting for candidate x or y, perhaps we should look in the mirror at why so many of our people are running to demagoguing leaders. Do senators really not understand why this is happening? I think it’s obvious why: Because they get so little actual leadership out of this town – out of either end of Pennsylvania Avenue, or out of either political party. Make no mistake: There were some genuinely dreadful things said on the national stage yesterday. But they were almost totally predictable. Did anyone here really not see this coming? And why is it that these words are attractive to some? Why do they find so many followers? Because they are comforting to people who are scared. They are food to a people who are starved for real leadership. Sunday night was a drought. Monday night was a flood. Neither are what the people need – or what they, at their best, want. But don’t be surprised that a people who are being misled by a political class in denial about the nature of this fight comes then quickly to desire very different, much more muscular words and utopian pledges. This town’s conversations are so often completely disconnected from the people.You want to know what people calling my office – and stopping me in the grocery store since Paris and now since San Bernardino – want to talk about? They want to talk about what sharia law is – and how many Muslims believe in it. It’s a fair question for moms to ask. And they want to talk about American Exceptionalism – who are we; what are we for; what are we against? What unites us? We should talk more about these things. For a few minutes tonight, let’s just step briefly beyond this media cycle and look at where we stand. This is a clash of civilizations— a fight between free people and a totalitarian movement. And let me say clearly that recognizing a clash of civilizations is not the same as wanting one. We are free and our enemies hate it. They hate that my wife leaves our home. They hate that my daughters know how to read. They hate that we decided where we would go to church on Sunday. They hate us not because of any particular thing we have done, by omission or by commission; they hate us because of who we are. They hate us because we have a Constitution that enshrines our freedoms. And it is this Constitution that we should be fighting to defend. We should fight to defend the framework that has secured freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly for more than two hundred years – not initially judging every man by the content of his character instead of the color of his skin, but eventually guiding us beyond this American original sin and toward a more perfect union. This weekend, I went to San Bernardino. My wife and I laid flowers at a memorial that has popped up on a sidewalk outside the site where 35 of our neighbors bled this week. Fourteen of them died in this massacre. We talked to our American neighbors there in a neighborhood that should not be a part of a war zone. But a neighborhood that will now forever be a battlefield memorial. Some of the people grieving there wondered aloud to us: Why are our politicians so small, so mealy-mouthed? One Marine asked my wife if Washington really even cares about the victims of jihadi attacks like this. One woman asked why no one in Washington seems to be a full-throated lover of America. They are wrong, of course, about the caring and the loving. But they can be forgiven for wondering why we are so unable to be full-throated about the big stuff. We owe to those who died this week to tell the truth about the nature of this conflict. We owe it to those fourteen; we owe it to their families. We owe it to the service men and women in uniform who are abroad right now fighting for our freedom, some of whom will come home in caskets. We owe to the families of those who haven’t yet died – but will – in the next jihadi attack on our homeland. For it is coming. All adults know that the next attack is coming. You don’t need to see the classified briefings some of us see to know that the future is dangerous. The San Bernardino fourteen will not be the last Americans to bleed and die – in our homeland – because we are a free society. And so we should tell the truth about the enemy we face. We should tell the truth about them but we should also dig down to be honest about who we are; we should reaffirm our core values.We are not at war with terrorism, which is just a tactic. We are not at war with some empty sociological label called extremism. We are not even just at war with ISIS — though we're obviously at war with ISIS — but there will be other enemies that will lift the black flag of death in the future even after ISIS has been routed in Syria and Iraq.This is not about workplace violence. This is not about global warming or gun shows. This is not about income inequality. This is not about kids from broken homes, as tragic as that is, at home or abroad.Again, against a whole load of hand-wringing mush, we need to remember that this attack -- and the next attack -- are not about anything that we have done wrong. This is about who we are. This is about the nature of freedom.So who are we? We are people who unite around the Constitution. We are people who come together around the 1st Amendment, and we together, 320 million of us, believe in the freedom of religion, in the freedom of speech, in freedom of assembly, in the freedom of the press. I am a Christian. I am not a Muslim. But I am also in this life an American, and I have taken an oath to the Constitution. And so, as an American, I stand and defend the rights of American Muslims to freely worship even though we differ about important theological matters.In America, we are free to believe different things, and to argue about those beliefs. It matters what you think about the nature of God, and whether he has revealed himself. What you think about salvation matters. Heaven and hell matter. But these things are actually so important, that we don’t try to solve any of them by violence. America is about the right to argue about our differences with our neighbors. But to make those arguments free from violence. We in this land, under this Constitutional creed, come together as a community of Americans to unite around the core American values, of freedom of religion, and speech, and assembly, and press.So now, as it is emphatically and indisputably clear that we are not at war with all Muslims, let’s tell the truth that we most certainly are at war with militant Islam. We are at war with violent Islam. We are at war with jihadi Islam. We are at war with those who believe in killing in the name of religion.This is in fact precisely what America means: It is about being free to raise your kids, free to build a corner store, free to worship and assemble without the fear of violence. And so can argue about religion. Because many of us disagree.But then we come together as Americans to protect each other, to defend each other against religious killing. There are many hand-wringers in Washington who refuse to name the enemy we face. They refuse to admit that we are at war with militant Islam, with jihadi Islam, with violent Islam. They dance around platitudes and empty labels, hiding behind a worry (an understandable worry) that Muslims in America could face backlash. I share this fear. And I believe that telling the truth about who is, and who is not, our enemy is actually the only sure pathway to avoiding that danger. I think that those who refuse to tell the truth about our enemy – those who will nonsensically claim that the next jihadi attack is somehow just another random case of workplace violence – are making the backlash far more likely, not less likely. Here's how I think this backlash happens: the people who are supposed to be laser-focused on protecting us (that’s us) mouth more silly platitudes that show that we’re either too weak or too confused to keep our people safe. Then, a megalomaniac strongman steps forward and starts screaming about travel bans and deportations and he promise to keep us safe, which, to some (and actually to many more than most of you seem to understand) sounds better than not being protected at all.You want to stop Islamaphobia? Stop lecturing Americans that they’re supposedly stupid to be frightened about jihadis who actually do want to bomb their sporting event. And instead use your pen and phone as Commander-in-Chief to start telling us what your plan is to find and kill those who would do us harm. Start telling us what your actual plan is to have a Middle Eastern map that isn’t generating more failed states that become terrorist training camps. This country invented religious liberty--we're the most tolerant nation the world has ever seen. Our people want a little less elite sermonizing about tolerance in our communities, and a little more articulation of our shared Constitutional principles – and a lot more articulating of an actual battle plan.If you’re worried about backlash – if you’re worried about obviously over-the-top rhetoric from unserious political candidates – perhaps it would be useful if those of us who have the actual job of protecting the Constitution told the truth. We should be clear about who we are and about the freedoms we stand for. And we should be clear about those who would try to kill us because we believe in these freedoms. We are at war with militant or jihadi Islam, but we are not at war with people who believe in the American creed, which includes the right of everybody of every religion to freely worship and to freely speak, and to freely assemble and argue. We are not at war with all Muslims. We are not at war with Muslim families in Lincoln and Dearborn who want the American Dream amid a pluralistic society for their kids. But we are most certainly at war with those who want to spread a variety of religion that aims to motivate the killing and the freedom-taking of other Americans. This fight will be decades long. And we will win it. But not by denying that the fight exists. We will not win it by being mushy – about either who we are or who they are. We will win it instead by being clearer – about both who they are, and who we are. We will win it by reaffirming our core Constitutional values. We will win it because of who we are – a people who believe in freedom, and a people who are willing to fight and even to die to preserve a a free society for all Americans.MacBeth includes that aching line life "is a tale, told by an idiot, full of sound and fury signifying nothing." The context is an aimless people, drifting from who they are, drifting toward nihilism signifying nothing. This should not be us. This cannot be us. For America does signify something. Something special. The belief that everyone— Christian, Jew, Muslim, black, white, man, woman, rich, poor, first-generation, fifth-generation— everyone is endowed by our Creator with inalienable rights. Government is our shared project in safeguarding those rights. Our Constitution – our shared creed – gives us a framework for ordered liberty. When politicians – whether incumbents who have forgotten their oaths, or candidates trying to run merely on the bluster of their personality – don’t talk about the Constitution, when they don’t defend first principles, when they refuse to prefer substance over soundbites – when we nonsensically say that our enemy has nothing to do with Islam or conversely that every Muslim is prejudged guilty – then our national conversation crumbles into simple sound and fury. That is not us. For we are Americans.
12.04.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement today on the San Bernardino attack and the evolving nature of the war against militant Islam."Washington must wake up to this fact: the crowd-sourcing of domestic terror is a reality. While slow-moving, federal bureaucracies look for card-carrying terrorists, the Islamic State and al-Qa’ida are crowd-sourcing their jihad. We must adapt and develop a long-term strategy to name and defeat our enemy. That enemy is not the empty label ‘extremism’ but the ideology of militant Islam."
12.03.2015	Sasse presides over Senate as bill passes 52-47 U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting for legislation that repeals the core of ObamaCare and redirects taxpayer dollars from the nation’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, to community healthcare centers. Sasse was presiding over the Senate tonight when the legislation passed 52-47. "Congress is finally putting legislation to repeal ObamaCare on the President’s desk but our work is far from done. Republicans can’t beat bad ideas with no ideas— it’s time to put a serious replacement on the table and give the American people a clear choice between ObamaCare and a patient-centered solution. "I’m also grateful that my colleagues have voted to direct taxpayer funds away from the nation’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, and toward community health centers that provide comprehensive care for women and their families. Our pro-life positions are motivated by compassion and respect for the vulnerable— that's exactly what this legislation is all about."
11.30.2015	"Nebraskans can’t ignore the law, and neither should Washington." U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) unilateral rewrite of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) volume requirements. "Nebraskans can’t ignore the law, and neither should Washington. Reasonable people can argue about the RFS and the appropriate place to do that is Congress. Our state’s farmers never had an opportunity to vote for or against any of these bureaucrats but that’s not stopping the EPA from acting like a super-legislature. I am incredibly disappointed that, over and against concerns my letter voiced this spring, one of Washington’s most powerful agencies is again unilaterally re-writing the law."
11.19.2015	"These questions are not going away and we will ask them for another six months if that is what it takes." Tonight, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) announced his intent to continue blocking fast-tracked consideration and confirmation of HHS nominees until the Administration gives a complete and transparent accounting of the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act’s CO-OP program. Last night, after months of silence, HHS sent a letter which was non-responsive to the Senator's request. Sasse issued the following statement: "HHS sending a letter is not the same as providing real answers. These questions are not going away and we will ask them for another six months if that is what it takes. After 12 failed CO-OPs, six months, and numerous letters and press inquiries to HHS, families who lost their insurance plans still do not know what went wrong. HHS has not yet answered the most important question: why did it give $1.2 billion to 12 failed CO-OPs? We know that HHS relied upon so-called ‘milestone’ or ‘performance’ reviews to give out loans, but that information has not seen the light of day. Until HHS produces a full accounting, which must include these milestone reviews, they remain non-responsive to the core of our request. Families who lost their plans and taxpayers who paid the bill still deserve answers." Sasse's response to HHS tonight is available here. HHS November 18 letter to Senator Sasse is available here.
11.13.2015	"This is a stark reminder that the United States and free people across the globe must develop a serious strategy to defeat those who turn stadiums and concert halls into killing fields." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the terror attacks in Paris, France. "This is a stark reminder that the United States and free people across the globe must develop a serious strategy to defeat those who turn stadiums and concert halls into killing fields. These murderers must be hunted, killed, and destroyed. Confronting the growing threat of violent jihadism is a defining foreign policy challenge of our time. Americans will mourn and stand alongside our French allies in this long and difficult task."
11.05.2015	"Our constituents deserve nothing less than a full accounting." Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), who last month announced his intent to block consideration and confirmation of every HHS nominee— and oppose the fast-tracking of those nominees— until the Administration provides a complete and transparent accounting of the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act's CO-OP program, testified before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce. The Senator's statement, as prepared for delivery is found below. Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, "Examining the Costly Failures of Obamacare’s CO-OP Insurance Loans" November 5, 2015 Statement from Senator Ben Sasse As prepared for delivery:Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, and members of the subcommittee, thank you for inviting me to speak today. I appreciate the opportunity to think along with you about how we respond to the failure of CO-OPs in 13 states. It is an urgent problem that has left hundreds of thousands of Americans scrambling to find new health plans this fall.Before we dive into the details about CO-OPs, I want to take a moment to suggest we take off our partisan hats. Yes, I fiercely oppose the Affordable Care Act. And yes, there are members of this committee who might love it. That’s not what this is about. It’s about getting to the bottom of what’s going on and why so many of our neighbors are losing their health coverage.The tumultuous failure of the Affordable Care Act’s Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan program began in my own backyard with the collapse of CoOportunity Health in Nebraska and Iowa.The goal of today’s hearing will be to get to the bottom of what is happening with CO-OPs. I plan to make two points today. First, while there is much more that we must understand, what we know so far suggests that the CO-OP program may be systemically flawed and serves as an example of greater bureaucratic incompetence generally. Second, that the lack of transparency on this issue is harmful and the Department of Health and Human Services owes the American public answers. Republican or Democrat, our constituents deserve nothing less than a full accounting.The CO-OP program was included in the ACA to purportedly foster competition in the new exchanges by federally funding the start-up of 23 non-profit health insurers. To get them off the ground, taxpayers loaned these insurers $2.4 billion. After less than two years of operation, 12 CO-OPs are down and the program has a failure rate of over 50 percent.The first failure, CoOportunity Health in Nebraska and Iowa, has arguably been the messiest because people lost their health plan in the middle of the plan year. CoOportunity was awarded a total of $145 million in taxpayer-funded loans. The new insurer had garnered about 10 times the number of enrollees that they had originally anticipated and was seemingly successful.However, despite the ample funding and enrollees, on December 16, 2014, more than a month into the new open enrollment season, the Iowa Insurance Commissioner placed CoOportunity under a supervision order. By January 23, 2015, the Iowa Insurance Commissioner deemed rehabilitation of CoOportunity impossible and sought a court order for liquidation. After just one year of operation, the new nonprofit health insurer abruptly collapsed.This was a quite a shock to the 120,000 CoOportunity enrollees, a majority of whom are Nebraskans. These people were forced out of their insurance plans and had to go through the grueling process of signing up for coverage on healthcare.gov all over again.So why did CoOportunity fail? Curiously, more than 9 months later, we still don’t have answers.But sadly, CoOportunity’s messy demise was just the first CO-OP domino to fall. Now, a total of 12 CO-OPs across 13 states will be closed by the end of the year. These 12 co-ops were awarded more than $1.1 billion in taxpayer-funded loans and had more than a half a million enrollees.Another especially noteworthy failure is Health Republic of New York, the largest CO-OP. It received more in taxpayer loans than any other CO-OP, totaling more than $265 million. In late September, they announced they would cease operations at the end of the year. But just last Friday, the state’s health insurance regulatory body, revealed that the situation was much worse than originally anticipated. Apparently, a review conducted in conjunction with CMS found that the previously reported filings were not an accurate representation of Health Republic’s financial condition. Now, the CO-OP is closing down as fast as possible instead of at the end of the plan year.This means that the more than 200,000 enrollees in Health Republic will have to pick a new insurer and plan in order to maintain health coverage for the month of December. The new coverage will then expire on December 31st and they will have to once again choose another insurance plan for 2016 coverage. The sudden disruption and subsequent consumer confusion is eerily similar to what Nebraskans and Iowans faced earlier this year with CoOportunity’s closure.Which brings me to my second point: We still don’t have good answers. With 12 out of 23 insurers rapidly going under, inaccurate filings for the New York CO-OP, and more than $1 billion in taxpayer "loans" out the door, there are more questions than ever regarding the CO-OP program at large. I believe it is essential that HHS answer basic questions.For instance, CMS awarded additional solvency loans to CoOportunity, Health Republic in New York, and Kentucky Health Cooperative, all of which have closed or are closing now. Was CMS doubling down on their initial misjudgment by awarding additional loans?At the time of the awards, these three insurers were operating at substantial losses that seemingly stemmed from poorly pricing their products. Indeed, one analysis measured the percentage difference between the CO-OPs’ average silver plan premium for a single, 27-year-old in the state to the corresponding average premium for all other carriers selling in the same market and found that CoOportunity in NE, Health Republic in NY and Kentucky Health Cooperative were all priced more than 20 percent below all their competitors.Should HHS have given these companies more taxpayer money given the anomalies of their pricing models?Moreover, HHS has yet to address if and when taxpayers will be repaid for the $1 billion they loaned to these 12 CO-OPs.These are the types of answers and information that HHS should be providing to the American people.The lack of transparency thus far has been disappointing to say the least. I started asking questions after CoOportunity failed in my state this past May. Without receiving a sufficient response, I asked more questions when the second CO-OP failed in Louisiana. By the time eight CO-OPs had gone under, I elevated my effort to get answers by pledging to oppose all HHS nominations. Since that announcement, less than three weeks ago, four additional CO-OPs are closing, cementing further that this is a systemic problem within the CO-OP program.Consumers who face coverage disruption and taxpayers who footed the bill deserve answers. CMS needs to provide a complete accounting of what has gone wrong within the CO-OP program. I hope that will start today at this hearing.Thank you.
11.03.2015	Senator Ben Sasse's Maiden Speech on the Senate Floor. Watch the full speech here. Posted by Senator Ben Sasse on Tuesday, November 3, 2015 Remarks as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Mr. President. I rise to speak from the Floor for the first time today. I have never been in politics before, and I intentionally waited a year to speak here. I want to talk today about the purpose of the Senate, about some of the historical uses of the Floor of this special body, and about what baby-steps toward institutional recovery might look like. Before doing so, let me explain briefly why I chose to wait a year since Election Day before beginning to fully engage in Floor debate. I’ve done two things in my adult worklife: I’m a historian by training and a strategy guy by vocation. Before becoming a college president, I helped over a dozen organizations find strategies to get through some very ugly crises. One important lesson I learned over and over is that, when you walk into any troubled organization, there is a delicate balance between expressing human empathy and yet not passively sweeping hard truths under the rug. On the one hand, it is absolutely essential to listen first, to ask questions first to learn how a broken institution got to where it is – because there are reasons. Things drift and fray for reasons; people rarely set out to break special institutions they inherit. Still, empathy cannot change the reality that a bankrupt company is spending more to build its products than customers are willing to pay for them; a college with too few students is not only out of money but out of spirit; a charity that cannot persuade enough donors to invest in its cause might not have the right cause. This is the two-part posture I have adopted in my rookie year. Because of this goal of empathetic listening first, of coming to sit and privately interview many of you – and also because of a pledge I made to Nebraskans in deference to an old Senate tradition – I have waited. But please do not misunderstand: Do not confuse a deliberate approach with passivity. I ran because I think that the public is right that we as a people are not tackling the generational crises that we face: We don’t have a long-term foreign policy for the age of jihad and cyberwar; our entitlement budgets are completely fake; we are entering an age where work and jobs will be more fundamentally disrupted than at any point since hunter-gatherers first settled in agrarian villages. And yet we don’t really have any plans. I think the public is right that we as a Congress are not shepherding the country through the serious debates we must have about the future of this great nation. I will outline the key observations from my interviews of you another day. For now let me flag the painful, top-line take-away: No one in this body thinks the Senate is laser-focused on the most pressing issues facing the nation. No one. Some of us lament this fact; some are angered by it; many are resigned to it; some try to dispassionately explain how they think it came to be. But no one disputes it. And if I can be brutally honest for a moment: I’m home basically every weekend, and what I hear – and what I’m sure most of you hear – is some version of this: A pox on both parties and all your houses. We don’t believe politicians are even trying to fix this mess. To the Republicans, to those who claim this new majority is leading the way: Few believe that. To the grandstanders who use this institution as a platform for outside pursuits: Few believe the country’s needs are as important to you as your ambitions. To the Democrats, who did this body harm through nuclear tactics: Few believe bare-knuckled politics are a substitute for principled governing. And does anyone doubt that many on both the right and the left now salivate for more of these radical tactics? The people despise us all. And why is this? Because we’re not doing the job we were sent here to do. The Senate isn’t tackling the great national problems that worry those we work for. I therefore propose a thought experiment: If the Senate isn’t going to be the most important venue for addressing our biggest national problems, where is that venue? Where should the people look for the long-term national prioritization? Or, to ask it of ourselves, would anything be lost if the Senate didn’t exist? Again, this a thought experiment, so let me be emphatically clear: I think a great deal would be lost if the federal government didn’t have a Senate – but game out with me the question of "Why?" What precisely would be lost if we had only a House of Representatives, rather than both bodies? The growth of the administrative state, the fourth branch of government, is increasingly hollowing out the Article I branch, the legislature – and many in Congress have been complicit in this hollowing out of our own powers. So would anything really be lost if we doubled-down on Woodrow Wilson’s impulses and inclinations toward administrative efficiency by removing much of the clunky-ness of legislative process? Or, we could approach this thought exercise from the inside out: What is unique about the Senate? What can this body do particularly well? What are its essential characteristics? What was it built for? Consider its attributes: We have 6-year terms instead of 2-year terms (and the Founders actually considered lifetime appointments to the Senate); We have proportional representation of states, not of population counts – reflecting a federalist structure where we are supposed to be especially attuned to the distinction between agreeing that government might have a role to play in tackling certain kinds of problems – and yet guarding against a routinized assumption that only a centralized, national government can ably tackle problem X or Y; Third, we have rules designed to strengthen the hand of individual senators, not to the end of obstruction, but rather to ensure full debate and engagement with dissenting points of view – for the Founders had less concern with governmental efficiency than with protecting minority rights and culturally unpopular views; Fourth, we had no formal rules acknowledging political parties until as late as the 1970s; we had merely a 20th century convention of acknowledging to speak first the leaders of the two largest party blocks; We have explicit constitutional duties related to providing the executive with advice – chiefly on the building of his or her team and on the long-term trajectory of foreign policy. Six-year terms; representation of states, not census counts; nearly limitless debate to protect dissenters; no formal rules for political parties. What then is the answer to the question, "What is the Senate for?" Possibly the best shorthand is: "To shield lawmakers from obsession with short-term popularity to enable us to focus on the biggest long-term challenges our people face." The Senate was built to be the antidote to sound-bites. https://t.co/ruYE4yngj4 pic.twitter.com/TyeXurV2Sy — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) November 3, 2015 Why does the Senate’s character matter? Precisely because it is meant to insulate us from short-termism. This is the point of the Senate. This place is built to insulate us from opinion fads and the short-term bickering of 24-hour-news-cycles. The Senate was built to focus on the big stuff. The Senate is to be the antidote to sound-bites. I have asked many of you what is wrong with us. And, as in most struggling organizations, there is a high degree of agreement in private about what ails us – about what incentivizes short-term over long-term behavior: the incessant fund-raising; the ubiquity of cameras wherever we talk; the normalization over the last decade of using many Senate rules as shirts-and-skins exercises; constant travel (again often to fundraise) meaning that sadly, many families around here get ripped up. This is not to suggest that there is unanimity among you in these private conversations. The divergence is most pronounced at the question of what comes next, whether institutional decline is inevitable: Some of you are hopeful for a recovery of a vibrant institutional culture. But more of you are pessimistic. The most common framing of the worry is this: Okay, so this might not be the Senate’s finest hour. But isn’t the dysfunction in here merely an echo of the broader political polarization out there? It’s an important question: Isn’t the Senate broken merely because of a larger "shattered consensus" of shared belief across our land? Surely, this is part of the story. But there is more to say: First, the political polarization of the country (outside Washington) is often overstated. We could talk about the Election of 1800, the run-up to the Civil War, the response to Catholic immigration waves, the bloodiest summers of the Civil Rights movement, or the experiences of returning soldiers from Vietnam if you want to talk about high-water marks of polarization. Second, civic disengagement is arguably a larger problem today than is polarization. It isn’t so much that most regular folks are locked into predictably Republican and Democratic positions on every issue; it’s that they are tuning us out altogether. And despite the echo chambers for those of us with these jobs, are we aware that the Pew Research Center notes that the total 24-hour viewership of CNN, Fox, and MSNBC is only between 1.8 and 2 million? That’s it. Third, one of our jobs is to flesh out competing views with such seriousness and respect that we should be mitigating, not exacerbating, the polarization that does exist. This is one of the reasons we have a representative, rather than a direct, democracy. Fourth, surveys reveal that the public is more dissatisfied with us than they are scared about the intractability of the grand challenges we face. Consider this contrast: Between two-thirds and three-quarters of Americans think the country is headed in a bad direction; that the experiences of their children will be less than the experiences of their parents. That’s really bad. But consider this: Only one in ten is comforted that Congress is doing a decent job. Let’s be clear about what this means: If the voters were given a choice to fire everyone in Congress, does anyone have any doubt what they would do? There are good and bad reasons to be unpopular. A good reason would be to suffer for waging an honorable fight for the long-term that has near-term political downsides – like telling seniors the sobering truth that they’ve paid in far less for their Social Security and Medicare than they are currently getting back. But we all know deep down that the political class is unpopular not because of our relentless truth-telling, but because of politicians’ habit of regularized pandering to those who already agree with us. The sound-bite culture – whether in our ninety-second TV stand-ups in the Russell rotunda, in our press releases, in the habits honed in campaigns – is everywhere around us. This is the very reductionism – the short-termism – that this institution was explicitly supposed to guard against. The "Senate" is a word with two meanings – it is the 100 of us as a group, a community, a "body" (that’s an important metaphor); and it is this physical chamber. The Senate is what we call this special room in which we assemble to debate the really big things. But what happens in this chamber now is what is most disheartening for a newby like me. As our constituents know, something has gone awry here. We – in recent decades – have allowed the short-termism of sound-bite culture to invade this chamber, and radically reduce so many debates to fact-free zones. Mr. President, I mentioned that I’ve done two kinds of work before coming here: historian/college president and crisis turn-around guy. While they might seem quite different, both depend on a certain kind of deliberation, a kind of Socratic speech. Good history is good story-telling. And good story-telling demands empathy; it requires understanding different actors, differing motivations, competing goals. Reducing everything immediately to good and evil is bad history – not only because it isn’t true, but because reductionism is unpersuasive; it is boring. Good history, on the other hand, demands that one talk socratically – that one can present alternate viewpoints, not strawman arguments. Similarly, can you imagine a business strategist who presents just one idea, and then immediately announces that it is the only right idea, the only plausible idea? How would companies respond? They would fire that guy. A good strategist, by contrast, puts the best construction on a range of scenarios; and outlines the best criticisms of each option, including especially the option he or she wants to argue for most passionately. And then one assumes that your competitors will upgrade their game in light of your opening moves. This is again a kind of socratic speech. But bizarrely, we don’t really do this very much here. We don’t have many actual debates. This is a place that would be difficult today to describe as "the greatest deliberative body in the world" – something that has often been true historically. Socrates said it was dishonorable to make the lesser argument appear the greater – or to take someone else’s argument and distort it so that you don’t have to engage their strongest points. Yet here, on this Floor, we regularly devolve into bizarre partisan-politician speech. We hear robotic recitations of talking points. Well, guess what: Normal people don’t talk like this. They don’t like that we do. And, more importantly, they don’t trust us because we do. It’s weird, because one-on-one, when the cameras are off, hardly anyone here really believes that senators from the other party are evilly motivated – or bribed – or stupid. There is actually a great deal of human affection around here – but again, that’s in private, when the cameras aren’t on. Perhaps I should pause to acknowledge that an introductory speech like this makes me nervous. Talking about the recovery of more honest, Socratic debate runs the risk, I fully recognize, of being written off as overly romantic, as naïve idealism. To add to the discomfort, I’m brand new to politics and 99th in seniority. But talking bluntly about what is not working in the Senate in recent decades is actually not naïve idealism, but aspirational realism. Here’s why: I believe that a cultural recovery inside the Senate is a partial prerequisite for a national recovery. I don’t think that generational problems like the absence of a long-term strategy for combating jihad and cyber-war; like telling the truth about entitlement overpromising; like developing new human capital and job retraining strategies for the emerging era of much more rapid job change – I don’t think these long-term problems are solvable without a functioning Senate. And a functioning Senate is a place that rejects short-termism, both in substance and in tone. The Senate has always had problems – it’s a human institution populated by sinners. But it hasn’t always had today’s problems. There have been glorious high points when the Senate has flourished. And I believe a healthier Senate is possible again – but it will require models and guides. To that end, I have been reflecting on three towering figures of the last half-century who used the Floor differently than we usually use it today, and who thereby have much to teach us. Before naming them, though, let me clarify my purpose: I do not think there is any magic bullet to restore the Senate. My purpose in speaking today is basically just to move into public discussions I’ve already been having in private as I try to define a personal strategy for how to use this Floor. I want advice. I am opening a conversation and soliciting input on how to contribute to the broader team – and there are many of you – who want an upgrading of our debate, our prioritization, and our seriousness about the bigger challenges. Two weeks ago, in discussion about this with one of you, I was asked: "So you are going to admit our institutional brokenness and call for more civility on the Floor?" No. While I am in favor of more civility, my actual call here is for more substance. This is not a call for less fighting – but for more meaningful fighting. This is a call for bringing our A-game to the debates on the biggest issues here, with less regard for the 24-month election cycle and the 24-hour news cycle. This is a call to be for things that are big enough that you might risk your reelection. So let’s name three folks who can instruct us, because they brought a larger approach to this Floor: First, I sit quite intentionally at Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s desk. The New Yorker who cast a huge shadow around here for a quarter century famously cautioned that, while each of us has a right to our own opinion, we most certainly don’t have any right to our own set of facts. He read social science prolifically, and sought constantly to bring data to bear on the debates in this chamber. Like any genuinely curious person, he asked lots of questions – so you couldn’t automatically know what policy he would ultimately advocate just because he asked hard questions of everyone. He had the capacity to surprise us. Second, in a time when circling the partisan wagons and castigating the opposing party can feel reflexively easy, we could all benefit from reading again Margaret Chase Smith’s "Declaration of Conscience" speech on this Floor from June 1950. The junior senator from Maine was a committed anti-communist – sometimes called the first female cold warrior. And for her, that meant not knee-jerk opposition to competing views but rather the full-throated defense of what she called "Americanism," defined as "The right to criticize; The right to hold unpopular beliefs; The right to protest; The right of independent thought." Senator Smith was rightly worried about Alger Hiss and the infiltration of the State Department by spies, and that meant that grand-standing and lazy character smears were not only dishonest; they were distracting and therefore dangerous. And thus, the freshman senator – and at that point the only woman in the body – went to the Floor to demand publicly what she had previously asked for unsuccessfully in private: Was there any evidence for all of Joe McCarthy’s scandalous claims? Because a committed truth-teller challenged someone in her own party, on an issue on which she had ideological alignment with him, to reject strawman arguments and disingenuine attacks, the Senate would – four years later – censure McCarthy and banish McCarthyist tactics from this place. Finally, and for my purposes today most importantly, I would like us to recall Robert Byrd, one of the larger figures in this body’s two and a half centuries. As a historian, I have long been a student of the West Virginian, troubled though he was. We sometimes conceive of our role today as merely policy advocates – as those who argue for our respective party’s position on some short-term policy fight. And that is sometimes important. But that is only one of our roles. We don’t have a parliamentary system – and that choice was on purpose. With Moynihan and Margaret Chase Smith, we also need to contextualize our debates about our largest national challenges with facts and data; we need to agree on what problems we are trying to solve before we begin bickering about which programmatic levers might work more or less well; we need to challenge those in our own party not to construct lazy strawman arguments of those we are debating. But there is something else we need as well. Beyond policy advocating and policy clarifying, we need an overarching narrative. We need to pause to regularly recall the larger American principles that bind us together – our Constitutional creed, our shared stories, and our exceptional American dream of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all 320 million of our countrymen. We all know in our marriages that sometimes the only way to navigate through small and medium disagreements is by pausing to embrace again our larger shared commitments and our history. We need more of that here. We need to be able more often to agree on some big things before we get to the work of honorably disagreeing about some smaller policy fights. One of the important legacies of Senator Byrd (and again, this is no commentary on other aspects of his messy past) is that he forced the Senate to grapple with its history, specific duties, and unique place in the architecture of Madisonian separation of powers. To return to our thought experiment: Do we think the Founders would have regarded a 9% Congressional approval rating – a stunning level of distrust in representative government – as an existential crisis? Do we? Is it conceivable that we can get away with just drifting into the future, or is it essential that we fix this? Count me emphatically among those who think we need to fix it. We should not be okay with this. And if we are going to restore this place, part of it will center on recovering the executive/legislative distinction. The American people should demand more of us as legislators, and they should demand more of the next president as a competent administrator of the laws that we pass. That is only possible if we again have some identity commitments that are about the Constitution’s Article I (the legislature) in tension with the duties of the Article II branch (the executive). Everything cannot be simply Republicans versus Democrats. We need Democrats to speak up when a Democratic president exceeds his or her powers. And I promise you that I plan to speak up when the next president of my party exceeds his or her proper powers. Despite all his other failings, Robert Byrd labored hard to mark those non-partisan lines. We should too. To that end, in the coming months, I plan a series of Floor speeches on the historic growth of the administrative state. This will not be a partisan effort; it will not be a Republican senator criticizing the current administration because it is Democratic. Rather, it will be a constructive attempt to understand how we got to the place where so much legislating now happens inside the executive branch – for this kind of executive overreach came about because of a great deal of symbiotic legislative underreach. Republicans and Democrats are both to blame for grabbing more power when they have the presidency; and Republicans and Democrats are both to blame in the legislature as well for not wanting to lead on hard issues and take hard votes, but rather to sit back and let successive presidents gobble up more authorities. We can and we must do better than this. And the century-long look at the growth of executive branch legislating over the next many months will be an attempt to contribute to the efforts of all here, both Democrats and Republicans, who would like to see the Senate recover some of its authorities and some of its trustworthiness. Such executive overreach came about because of a great deal of symbiotic legislative underreach. pic.twitter.com/vN27Moznq9 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) November 3, 2015 Each of us has an obligation to be able to answer our constituents’ question: "Why doesn’t the Congress work? And what is your plan for fixing the Senate in particular?" And if your only answer is that the other party is fully to blame, then we don’t get it, and the American people understandably think that we are part of the problem, not the solution. This institution wasn’t built just to advocate for new policy X versus new policy Y for next month. We must also serve as a forum for helping the nation understand and navigate our hardest debates. Our ways of speaking should mitigate polarization, not make it worse. As was well said around here recently: "We will not always agree – not all of us, not all of the time. But we should not hide our disagreements. We should embrace them. We have nothing to fear from honest differences honestly stated…I believe a greater clarity between us can lead to a greater charity among us." Again, saying we should be reducing polarization doesn’t mean we should be watering down conviction. Quite the contrary. We do not need fewer conviction politicians around here; we need more of them. We do not need more compromising of principles; we need clearer articulation and understanding of competing principles – so that we can actually make things work better, not merely paper over the vision deficit. We should be bored by lazy "politician speech," bored by knee-jerk partisan certainties on every small issue. We should primarily be doing the harder work of trying to understand competing positions on larger issues. Good teachers don’t shut down debate; they try to model Socratic seriousness by putting the best possible construction on arguments, even – and especially – if one doesn’t hold those positions. Our goal is not to attack strawmen – but to strengthen and clarify meaningful contests of ideas. I think we can do better – and I want to labor with all who want to figure out how. pic.twitter.com/3dJKf5ihEf — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) November 3, 2015 Representative government requires civic reengagement. Our people need to know that we in this body are up to the task of leading during this time of nearly universal angst about whether this nation is on a path of decline. I think we can do better – and I want to labor with all who want to figure out how. Thank you, Mr. President.
10.30.2015	"This backroom deal grows government." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting against a budget deal negotiated between the White House and GOP Congressional leadership. "This backroom deal grows government. Congress has missed another opportunity for major reforms to our broken entitlement programs. I’m disappointed that again and again Washington does nothing to prevent the pain that will come when Nebraskans are forced to pay for this city's debts and phony math."
10.27.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee and an outspoken advocate of a systematic review of U.S. cyber doctrine, issued the following statement regarding today’s vote on The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act. "A single piece of legislation will not solve the United States’ strategic cybersecurity challenges but I am pleased that this bill elevates our national conversation, makes incremental improvements, and sunsets in a responsible way. After today's votes, we will still face the long-term challenges and uncertainty of this new era of cybersecurity. We must completely re-evaluate our entire cyber doctrine. There’s more work ahead." Additional background: Section 208 of The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act is identical to legislation offered by Senator Sasse in the Homeland Security Committee earlier this year. This section will require the government to review unclassified databases— similar to those hacked at OPM— an adversary could use to build a picture, or classified mosaic, that would be damaging to national security.
10.23.2015	"This is a small but encouraging sign that Congress is waking up to the reality that cybersecurity is national security." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement after President Obama signed his legislation, introduced in the wake of a hack of the United States Census Bureau. This is Sasse’s first piece of legislation to become law. "This is a small but encouraging sign that Congress is waking up to the reality that cybersecurity is national security. We still need to go big. This is an important defensive action for one agency that should set the table for a serious conversation. Washington is overdue for a top-to-bottom overhaul of our cyber vulnerabilities, our defenses, and our offensive doctrine." Background: Last night, President Obama signed H.R. 3116, the Quarterly Financial Report Reauthorization Act. The law includes an amendment authored by Senator Sasse which requires the Commerce Department to thoroughly review the Census Bureau’s actions in light of recent breaches at OPM and report back to Congress. In July, hackers breached the Census Bureau. This news followed the announcement that a malicious attacker—likely the Chinese government—breached OPM and stole information on 22 million Americans, including many security clearance holders. The report would require the Secretary of the Commerce Department to: (1) identify sensitive information systems at Census; (2) describe what steps have been taken to protect that information in light of the OPM breaches; (3) identify any known breaches of Census information; and (4) identify if any Census information could be used for a classified mosaic (a piecing together of information from a variety of databases—even unclassified ones—that an adversary could use to build a picture that is damaging to our own national security).
10.22.2015	Sasse blocking HHS nominees until Americans who lost their insurance get answers Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), who earlier this week announced his intent to block consideration and confirmation of every HHS nominee until the Administration gives a complete and transparent accounting of the systemic failures of the Affordable Care Act's CO-OP program, sent the following letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell. The full text of the Senator's letter is found below. Dear Secretary Burwell: Since my last inquiry into the Affordable Care Act’s Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan (CO-OP) program, an additional seven CO-OPs have announced they will cease operations in 2016. As you know, this means nine out of 23 CO-OPS have now failed, accounting for about half of all CO-OP enrollees. Because hundreds of thousands of consumers are or were enrolled in these health plans and hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars were loaned to these nine failed insurers, it is crucial that we understand the cause of these failures. I believe strongly that the people who have had or will have their coverage disrupted deserve answers. To that end, please provide a complete and transparent accounting of the CO-OP program’s widespread failures. This includes comprehensive answers to my two previous letters (sent May 22 and August 6) and basic documents related to the financial integrity and management of all nine unsuccessful CO-OPs. Please provide: 1. With respect to all closed or closing CO-OPs: a. Any initial business plan and application for the loan funding opportunity; b. Any semi-annual report, quarterly financial report, and milestone review; c. Any performance certifications; and d. Any document evaluating the CO-OP’s financial viability or solvency. 2. Any report or evaluation produced by Deloitte LLC concerning any solvency or expansion loan awarded to any CO-OP. I appreciate your cooperation in fully answering my previous questions and providing these documents. Please let me know if you need any clarification of these inquiries. Sincerely, Ben SasseU.S. Senator Additional background: On May 6, 2015, Sasse wrote to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking answers regarding CoOportunity's failure. In June, HHS offered an insufficient response, prompting Sasse to send an August 6 letter (available here) detailing nine specific questions. In more than two months since receiving those questions, HHS has not responded despite the fact that an additional seven CO-OPs have failed.
10.22.2015	"Our Commander-in-Chief is using service members as leverage in his campaign for higher domestic spending." Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued the following statement ahead of President Obama’s scheduled veto of the National Defense Authorization Act, bipartisan legislation to fund the federal government’s first duty—national defense. "The President’s veto further cements Washington’s all-or-nothing fiscal brinksmanship. Our Commander-in-Chief is using service members as leverage in his campaign for higher domestic spending. As ISIS controls large parts of Iraq, Russia fights a proxy war in Syria, and China exploits American cyber vulnerabilities, Washington acts like a circus, not a super power." Background: Today, President Obama will veto the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 despite the fact that the bill provides the funding that the Administration previously requested. In February, President Obama requested $612 billion in total defense authorizations. On October 7, the Senate passed legislation giving that exact amount of $612 billion, with a strong bipartisan majority of 70-27 (with 49 Republicans, 20 Democrats, and one Independent voting yes).
10.09.2015	"WOTUS is now on borrowed time" Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, an outspoken critic of the EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule and member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement on the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision to block WOTUS nationwide. "WOTUS is now on borrowed time," said Sasse. "This ruling is a victory for common-sense and the rule of law. The EPA isn’t a super-legislature and this ruling brings us one step closer to having the American people—not unelected bureaucrats—setting important agriculture and conservation policy. Like most Nebraskans, I’m grateful for the court’s decision and committed to seeing this fight through.” Background: Today, the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay on the implementation of WOTUS, noting that the rule has created a “whirlwind of confusion.” Sasse, an advocate of an all-of-the-above strategy to fight for Nebraska's farmers and ranchers, is an original cosponsor of two legislative efforts to stop the EPA. Senator Sasse is an original co-sponsor of a resolution disapproving the WOTUS rule. Companion legislation in the House of Representatives has been authored by Nebraska Congressman Adrian Smith. Sasse is also a cosponsor of The Federal Water Quality Protection Act, S. 1140, authored by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY). This legislation would nullify WOTUS and send EPA back to the drawing board to rewrite the rule. In March, Nebraska's Senior Senator Deb Fischer held a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing in Lincoln on WOTUS' impact to the agriculture community, homebuilders, and state and local governments. In May, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released the final Waters of the United States rule under the Clean Water Act. The rule would dramatically expand federal authority and with it EPA’s power to levy fines and require additional permits and reporting. In August, a federal judge temporarily blocked the rule in 13 states, including Nebraska.
10.07.2015	The Inspector General Mandates Reporting Act is a first step to empowering watchdogs Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO), the authors of The Inspector General Mandates Reporting Act of 2015, issued the following statements after the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs passed their bipartisan legislation to empower inspectors general. "I'm grateful to work alongside Senator McCaskill on this common-sense step toward making sure that Washington tackles the big issues with more transparency and less partisan shouting. Inspector generals keep Washington accountable and we need to make sure they have the flexibility and resources to protect taxpayers." “This legislation is an important first step in our effort to give government watchdogs more flexibility to conduct rigorous oversight where it’s needed most," said Senator McCaskill. "We’ve got to ensure that inspectors general—the eyes and ears of taxpayers—aren’t bogged down by unnecessary reporting requirements and instead are able to focus their attention on areas of the government where waste, fraud, and abuse are most likely.” Background: Under current law, every inspector general is required to produce any number of reports to Congress every year, many of which are out of date or little used. The Inspector General Mandates Reporting Act of 2015, introduced by Sasse and McCaskill, is the first step in a multi-step process to identify, and then eliminate, unnecessary work requirements with the goal of freeing up resources for government watchdogs. The bill would create a comprehensive list of reports that inspectors general are required to give Congress, as well as a list of recommendations for reports that are no longer necessary. Each office of inspector general would have 60 days to identify every report they are required by law to complete, and send the list to the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE), the IG coordinating body, along with recommendations for modifying or eliminating them. CIGIE would then have 60 additional days to send a comprehensive list to Congress, along with a list of recommendations. In the past several years, the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee has passed several pieces of legislation aimed at repealing old mandates that tie up agency resources and cost taxpayers millions. Senators Sasse and McCaskill plan to review the list of IG mandates and introduce legislation in the future to eliminate those no longer needed.
09.30.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today as the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the nomination of Robert F. Rossiter, Jr. to be a United States District Judge for the District of Nebraska. "Nebraskans are grateful for Senator Fischer’s commitment to our state and faithful leadership to ensure Judge Rossiter's nomination. I'm also thankful that Chairman Grassley and the Judiciary Committee are considering his nomination in a timely manner. Judge Rossiter is an honest and dutiful Nebraskan with a charge to uphold the rule of law impartially and fairly. I am certain his nomination will receive strong bipartisan support." Robert F. Rossiter, Jr., is a partner at Fraser Stryker in Omaha. From 1982 to 1983, Rossiter served as a law clerk to the Honorable C. Arlen Beam of the United States District Court for the District of Nebraska. He is the President-Elect of the Nebraska State Bar Association. He received his J.D. cum laude from Creighton University School of Law in 1981 and his B.S. from Purdue University in 1978.
09.24.2015	"I reject more Washington false choices and empty gestures. Nebraskans know this city isn't serious." Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting against cloture on a continuing resolution: "I reject more Washington false choices and empty gestures. Nebraskans know this city isn't serious. They did not send me here to participate in kabuki theater. They sent me here to bring conservative values and common sense to a broken city. Washington's false choice between 'fund it all' or 'shut the government down' is nonsense. This city stumbles from crisis to crisis by short-term budgeting. And that's no way to run a bait shop—let alone the federal government. I am committed to defunding Planned Parenthood and restoring Congress' constitutional power of the purse through a real debate about how we prioritize the federal government's most important duties. It's way past time we consider individual appropriations bills and have a serious conversation with the American people."
09.22.2015	Sasse: "If we can’t come together and agree that newborn babies deserve care, our talk about 'human rights' and 'inherent dignity' is empty." Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), along with 23 Senate co-sponsors, introduced the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. "If we can’t come together and agree that newborn babies deserve care, our talk about 'human rights' and 'inherent dignity' is empty," said Senator Sasse. "This is an opportunity for well-meaning people to set aside our differences and work to protect babies. I'm grateful that the House did that last week and I'm glad to begin that process in the Senate today." The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which is identical to that passed by the House of Representatives last week on a bipartisan vote of 248-177, would protect newborns that survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. "Nebraska has always been a leader in providing protections for unborn children," said Senator Deb Fischer. "I’m proud to cosponsor this legislation to help ensure that these babies receive the care they deserve at every stage of life. I commend Senator Sasse for introducing it." "We have a moral responsibility to protect our most vulnerable, and to prioritize precious human life over death," said Senator John Cornyn. "The necessity to protect the life of a newborn child should be without question or controversy, and I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle can unite behind this important legislation." "We cannot stand idly by and allow those who can't fight for themselves receive substandard care or simply no care at all," Senator Steve Daines stated. "The right to life is protected by our Constitution and is part of the framework of the Declaration of Independence. We must continue to be a voice for those who have none. We need to get this common sense legislation passed and on the President's desk." "As a mother and grandmother, I remain steadfast in my commitment to protect the most vulnerable, which is an important measure of any society," said Senator Joni Ernst. "This commonsense legislation ensures that all babies born into this world – regardless of the circumstances surrounding their birth – are treated with the dignity, care, and compassion that they rightly deserve." "This bill is about protecting the most innocent and vulnerable," said Senator Chuck Grassley. "It’s about ensuring that every breathing baby gets a chance at life. And, at its most basic level, it’s about a common sense principle that a baby who has survived an abortion procedure deserves to be treated with dignity. This is a bill worthy of everybody’s support." "Society has an obligation to protect life," Senator Ron Johnson said. "It is my hope that we all can agree on this fundamental truth. In today’s society, the need to protect life outside the womb is urgent. I support the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act in the hope that it will strengthen protections for the most vulnerable people in society." "I believe it is the duty of our government to protect the life of the born and unborn as a right guaranteed under the Constitution," Senator Rand Paul said. "This bill ensures innocent babies who are born alive receive the care and medical treatment they need," Senator Rob Portman stated. "It's about treating all human life with dignity, no matter how vulnerable, and I'm pleased to support this bill." "This is not a pro-life versus pro-choice issue: it is a matter of fact," said Senator Mike Rounds. "A baby who survives an abortion has the same rights under the law as any other newborn baby. In the history of the world, the true test of society is how well we treat the most vulnerable among us. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is an opportunity to do the right thing and make certain we are protecting the most helpless and defenseless in our society." "When it comes to protecting babies, we know what’s right and what’s wrong. What’s right is providing them the opportunity to grow, to learn, to become the bright eyed, world-changing children who we all cherish and protect, and I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bill," said Senator Thom Tillis. If we can’t come together & agree that newborn babies deserve care, our talk about "human rights" is empty #BornAlive pic.twitter.com/siovJcpJPo — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 22, 2015 The legislation requires that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. It also requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. Original co-sponsors to the legislation include Ms. Fischer (R-NE), Mr. McConnell (R-KY), Mr. Blunt (R-MO), Mr. Coats (R-IN), Mr. Cornyn (R-TX), Mr. Crapo (R-ID), Mr. Cruz (R-TX), Mr. Daines (R-MT), Mr. Enzi (R-WY), Ms. Ernst (R-IA), Mr. Graham (R-SC), Mr. Grassley (R-IA), Mr. Inhofe (R-OK), Mr. Johnson (R-WI), Mr. Lankford (R-OK), Mr. McCain (R-AZ), Mr. Moran (R-KS), Mr. Paul (R-KY), Mr. Perdue (R-GA), Mr. Portman (R-OH), Mr. Rounds (R-SD), Mr. Rubio (R-FL), and Mr. Tillis (R-NC). Bill text can be found here.
09.18.2015	"If this isn't the most non-controversial sentence in American politics, it's time to check our national conscience: newborn babies must receive care and attention." U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after the House passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, announcing that he will introduce companion legislation in the Senate when Congress resumes its work on Monday."If this isn't the most non-controversial sentence in American politics, it's time to check our national conscience: newborn babies must receive care and attention. Societies are judged by how we care for the vulnerable and surely anyone with a heart— regardless of where they stand on the abortion debate— should be able to agree that our laws should protect newborns. I'm grateful that a bipartisan majority of the House stood up for babies and I look forward to introducing companion legislation in the Senate next week."Background:Earlier today, the House of Representatives passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act on a bipartisan vote of 248-177. The legislation finds that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, the infant is a legal person for all purposes under the laws of the United States.This legislation requires health care practitioners to exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the infant as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age and requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital.Sasse will introduce companion legislation in the Senate on Monday.
09.17.2015	"WOTUS rules are bureaucratic hogwash" Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding his continued opposition to the EPA's Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule."The EPA's WOTUS rules are bureaucratic hogwash that will make it harder for Nebraskans to feed the world," said Sasse. "No one cares more about stewarding our land and protecting our water than Nebraska's farmers and ranchers. Congressman Smith has been a strong voice for agriculture by leading the common-sense opposition to WOTUS in the House, and I'm proud to join similar efforts in the Senate. I'll continue to do everything I can to fight this terrible rule. Nebraskans deserve nothing less."Sasse, an advocate of an all-of-the-above strategy to fight for Nebraska's farmers and ranchers, is an original cosponsor of two legislative efforts to stop the EPA.Today, Senator Sasse joined 46 others, led by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), in supporting a resolution disapproving the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) Waters of the U.S. rule. This legislation closely follows a House resolution authored by Nebraska Congressman Adrian Smith.Earlier this year, Sasse cosponsored The Federal Water Quality Protection Act, S. 1140, authored by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY). This legislation would nullify WOTUS and send EPA back to the drawing board to rewrite the rule. In March, Nebraska's Senior Senator Deb Fischer held a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing in Lincoln on WOTUS' impact to the agriculture community, homebuilders, and state and local governments.In May, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released the final Waters of the United States rule under the Clean Water Act. The rule would dramatically expand federal authority and with it EPA’s power to levy fines and require additional permits and reporting.In August, a federal judge temporarily blocked the rule in 13 states, including Nebraska.
09.11.2015	"The world watched in helpless horror but, somewhere in the Pennsylvania sky, Americans fought back." Lincoln, NE - U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement on the 14th anniversary of the September 11th attacks: "On this anniversary, we remember the thousands of Americans who lost their lives to violent jihad. Our hearts break anew. We mourn with children who never met their fathers, spouses who said hurried goodbyes, and all who suffer wounds that time cannot heal. "Although the remembrance of that day's events brings pain and sadness, it also lends courage and resolve. Perhaps none more so than the heroism of the passengers of Flight 93. "The world watched in helpless horror but, somewhere in the Pennsylvania sky, Americans fought back. Determined that no more innocents would die at the hands of cowards, 33 passengers and seven crew members perished so that others might live. "Todd Beamer, a husband and father, gave new breath to freedom's enduring cry with a simple phrase: 'Let's roll.' After Al-Qaeda turned airliners into weapons, Beamer and others made a drink cart their battering ram. While we know few details beyond the discordant sounds of a voice recorder, this much is clear: their fight to retake the cockpit saved untold numbers-perhaps the White House or Capitol. "Fourteen years ago, America's first counterattack in the war against violent jihad was won in a field outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Make no mistake: that war continues today. "May we renew our commitment to liberty and draw strength from the bravery and selflessness of Todd Beamer and his fellow passengers."
09.10.2015	Today, ahead of the Senate's vote of disapproval on the President's deal with Iran, Senator Ben Sasse visited Iran's abandoned embassy and explained his continued opposition to the administration's deal. Video and a transcript of the Senator's remarks are found below. "I am standing here on Embassy Row. Right behind me is the Iranian Embassy to the United States, which was abandoned April 7, 1980. "I spent all day sitting on the floor of the U.S. Senate yesterday, listening to my colleagues debate the technicalities of the President’s Iranian nuclear deal. It was a lawyerly argument, and there are arguments all over the map. I obviously think it is a terrible deal. "But I think what the American people get – that Washington D.C. does not understand – is that the technicalities of this deal are not the central question. The central question is 'why was this embassy abandoned April 7, 1980?' The central question of the #IranDeal: http://t.co/h4WLF1fNf0 — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) September 10, 2015 "It is because in 1979 there was an Iranian revolution in Tehran, and the mullahs that came to power are theocratic hardliners that believe they have a divine mandate. Their divine mandate is to export Sharia law and tyranny across the Middle East, across North Africa, and beyond. "The tyrants that rule Iran today believe they have a divine mandate to annihilate Israel. For 36 years we have had a bipartisan consensus in this country that the world’s largest state sponsor of terror should never be allowed to become a nuclear threshold state. "Sadly, the administration has abandoned that 35 years of bipartisan consensus in the last 18 months in the fanciful, imaginary dream that they are going to transform the theocratic hardliners that rule that country into moderates that will no longer oppress religious minorities, women, and homosexuals within their country, that will no longer try to spread destabilization and fund terrorism across their region and across the globe. "The American people are more serious than Washington D.C. The American people aspire to a day when this embassy is reopened – not with these theocratic mullahs, but when this embassy is reopened and when some flag is raised over this embassy of a nation that is led by people who believe in human flourishing and the dignity of their own people and who repudiate the goal of annihilating Israel and spreading their Sharia law across the Middle East. "I’m grateful that the American people are more serious than Washington D.C. Thanks for listening."
08.03.2015	Today, U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding the Senate's failure to advance legislation that would redirect federal Planned Parenthood funds to other women's health providers. "As a parent of three children, I watched today's vote with a heavy heart. While too many of my colleagues chose Planned Parenthood's empty euphemisms over scientific facts, Americans across the country are beginning an honest conversation about the dignity of human life. "In light of recent videos, sincere people on both sides of the abortion debate should be able to agree that Planned Parenthood cannot hide its practices behind misleading slogans like ‘safe, legal, and rare.’ "I am grateful that a bipartisan majority of the Senate agrees with Nebraskans that we can protect mothers and babies and I look forward to continuing this important conversation." Yesterday, Sasse authored an op-ed in The Omaha World-Herald, calling on well-meaning individuals on both sides of the abortion debate to take an honest look at recent Planned Parenthood videos. Sasse is an original cosponsor of legislation that would have redirected taxpayer funds from Planned Parenthood—the nation’s largest abortion provider—toward other federally qualified health centers that offer care to women and children. In 2013, 36 community health centers served Nebraska—compared to two Planned Parenthood centers. According to its own 2013-14 annual report, Planned Parenthood reported providing 327,653 abortions but only 18,684 prenatal services and only 1,880 adoption referrals—meaning that a pregnant woman walking into a Planned Parenthood facility was 174 times more likely to receive an abortion than an adoption referral. During that same time, Planned Parenthood received $528.4 million in government health services grants and reimbursements.
07.23.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, co-sponsored an amendment to the highway bill to repeal mandatory country of origin labeling (COOL) requirements for beef, pork, and chicken. The amendment, introduced by Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), was filed shortly after Canada reiterated its position that only the Roberts Amendment would prevent $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs, likely including Nebraska beef, pork, and corn. “Nebraskans deserve protection from retaliatory tariffs and that's exactly what this common-sense amendment provides," said Senator Sasse. After winning cases at the World Trade Organization, Canada and Mexico will have the ability to impose potentially $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports each year. Today, after a different, pro-COOL amendment introduced by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), was filed in the Senate, Canada noted that, if the Stabenow Amendment became law, U.S. exports would face $3 billion in tariffs. "Nebraskans who work hard to feed the world are proud to export our corn, beef, and pork to Canada and Mexico and don't deserve to be targeted," continued Senator Sasse. "Congress is free to continue debating voluntary labeling programs but that should only happen once Nebraskans are no longer threatened with retaliatory tariffs." The amendment was offered to the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act, commonly known as the highway bill. Co-sponsors include Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas; Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn.; John Boozman, R-Ark.; Richard Burr, R-N.C.; Tom Cotton, R-Ark.; Cory Gardner, R-Colo.; David Perdue, R-Ga., James Risch, R-Idaho; and Thom Tillis, R-N.C.
07.22.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse joined 49 other senators, led by U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), in a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services following the release of footage showing senior Planned Parenthood executives discussing in gruesome detail the organization’s role in the harvesting and trafficking of the organs of unborn babies. The letter draws attention to the legal, ethical, and policy issues surrounding Planned Parenthood’s actions and calls on HHS Secretary Burwell to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations. “The footage raises a number of questions about the practices of the organization, including whether they are in compliance with federal laws regulating both the use of fetal tissue and partial-birth abortions,” the senators wrote. “In addition to questions about Planned Parenthood’s compliance with applicable federal law and medical ethics, we believe the footage prompts important policy questions surrounding the issue of abortions permitted so late in a pregnancy – sometimes even later than 5 months – that an unborn baby’s organs can be identified and harvested.” In a separate statement, Senator Sasse— who has been a vocal advocate of defunding Planned Parenthood— added “Nebraskans are repulsed by Planned Parenthood’s cold and calculated barbarism because these are not ‘lumps of cells’ or ‘blobs of tissue’— these are babies." Full text of the senators’ letter can be found here. The complete list of the 50 senators who signed the letter is as follows: Senator Lamar Alexander Senator Kelly Ayotte Senator John Barrasso Senator Roy Blunt Senator John Boozman Senator Richard Burr Senator Shelley Moore Capito Senator Bill Cassidy Senator Dan Coats Senator Thad Cochran Senator Bob Corker Senator John Cornyn Senator Tom Cotton Senator Mike Crapo Senator Ted Cruz Senator Steve Daines Senator Mike Enzi Senator Joni Ernst Senator Deb Fischer Senator Jeff Flake Senator Cory Gardner Senator Lindsey Graham Senator Orrin Hatch Senator John Hoeven Senator Jim Inhofe Senator Johnny Isakson Senator Ron Johnson Senator James Lankford Senator Mike Lee Senator Joe Manchin Senator John McCain Senator Mitch McConnell Senator Jerry Moran Senator Rand Paul Senator David Perdue Senator Rob Portman Senator James Risch Senator Pat Roberts Senator Mike Rounds Senator Marco Rubio Senator Ben Sasse Senator Tim Scott Senator Jeff Sessions Senator Richard Shelby Senator Dan Sullivan Senator John Thune Senator Thom Tillis Senator Pat Toomey Senator David Vitter Senator Roger Wicker
07.20.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after the U.N. Security Council unanimously approved the Obama Administration's nuclear deal with Iran before the American people have had an opportunity to thoroughly review the agreement through their elected representatives in Congress. “Even by Washington's low standards, the administration's condescension is astounding. Nebraskans did not elect anyone to the U.N. Security Council. Yet the administration is more concerned with Russian and Chinese bureaucrats than with engaging the American people. For decades, Democrats and Republicans worked on a bipartisan basis to prevent nuclear proliferation, and the Congress must now again insist that the representatives of the American people—not the United Nations—set U.S. foreign policy.”
07.17.2015	“Many in Washington act like if these murderers don’t have a written work order from a specifically branded terrorist organization, then we can pretend these are one-off acts conducted by isolated individuals. We must recognize this is a larger jihadi strategy to wage war on free people through crowd-sourced terrorism.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement regarding our ongoing war against violent jihadism following Thursday’s heart-breaking attacks in Tennessee. “Although the investigation of Mohammad Youssuf Abdulazeez is ongoing and will reveal more information in the coming days, we may never know the complete motive behind why this man targeted our neighbors in uniform. Americans from sea to sea lift up the victims’ loved ones in our thoughts and prayers. “Yesterday’s attack reminds us that we have entered a new phase in our war against violent jihadism. Our enemies are not exclusively focused on a command-and-control attack strategy. Violent jihadis seek to radicalize ‘lone-wolf’ attackers—often young and religiously serious Muslim men—to see as battlefields what we know as shopping malls. “The same technology we use to share photos of our children they now use to radicalize the susceptible into believing they should murder for a cause bigger than themselves.“Many in Washington act like if these murderers don’t have a written work order from a specifically branded terrorist organization, then we can pretend these are one-off acts conducted by isolated individuals. We must recognize this is a larger jihadi strategy to wage war on free people through crowd-sourced terrorism. “Sadly, the crowd-sourcing of domestic terror is likely a part of our coming decades. Dangerous, ideologically-motivated, small cells and ‘lone-wolves’ are bent on murder and want to disrupt the rhythms of daily American life. Denying this reality will not make us safer. “We have seen for months that crowd-sourcing and online recruiting are deliberate tactics of al-Qa’ida, the Islamic State, and others. Many jihadis have explicitly stated their desire for a wave of self-directed attacks across the globe. In the past, we understandably sought direct connections between terrorists and global organizations, but this ‘smoking gun’ approach will become less and less useful. Moreover, any belief— stated or implied— that these attacks are somehow diminished or less perilous because we cannot identify all direct links between attackers and specific terrorist leaders overseas demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of today’s counterterrorism environment. “New realities and new threats demand new acknowledgements and new strategies. We must be as adaptive, persuasive and creative as our enemies. Today, we are not. Washington must stop acting as if the only terrorist attacks that matter are the ones carried out by card-carrying members of al-Qa’ida or the Islamic State. “Make no mistake: violent jihadism will eventually be discarded alongside fascism and communism, the failed despotic ideologies of the 20th century. We owe it to our nation and to our children to commit ourselves to this long and difficult task.”
07.15.2015	Today, U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse issued the following statement regarding a video showing Dr. Deborah Nucatola, the Senior Director of Medical Services for Planned Parenthood, discussing the trafficking of body parts of unborn babies. “Well meaning people from both parties should agree that the trafficking of baby body parts is abhorrent and has no place in civilized society. Planned Parenthood’s callous discussion of babies’ hearts and lungs gives Americans an inescapably clear reminder of what science already knows: a baby is more than a ‘lump of cells.’ It is time to set aside meaningless euphemisms and have a serious discussion. “This is yet another example of how little regard Planned Parenthood’s leaders have for basic human rights and further reason to prohibit their access to taxpayer dollars. As a co-sponsor of Senator David Vitter’s Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act, I am committed to getting the federal government out of the abortion business.”
07.14.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after reports that the Obama Administration reached a nuclear deal with Iran. “Sadly, the Administration just lit the fuse for a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. We all know Iran’s neighbors will not sit idly as the world's largest state-sponsor of terror becomes a nuclear-threshold state. “Congress will thoroughly review it in the coming weeks but this much is immediately clear: this deal abandons ‎‎America’s historic bipartisan commitment to preventing nuclear proliferation, and instead begins the era of managed proliferation—a descent into chaos and an even more dangerous world.” The administration just lit the fuse for a nuclear arms race in the Middle East with its proposed #IranDeal. http://t.co/PHOjhYBKvv — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 14, 2015
07.10.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today on the resignation of Katherine Archuleta, the director of the Office of Personnel Management: "Not enough." Not enough. #OPMHack http://t.co/B8x9FWAtW5 https://t.co/FMFL34zEmS — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 10, 2015 Yesterday, in an op-ed in WIRED, Sasse outlined four questions that must be addressed. 1. How Does OPM Know How Much Information Was Stolen? 2. What Does It Mean For National Security? 3. How Will Industry Protect Itself From Attacks? 4. How Does The Government Plan To Respond Now? How is it going to deter future attacks?
07.08.2015	As U.S.-Iranian nuclear negotiations continue in Vienna, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse wrote to President Obama last night, urging the Administration to ensure that United Nations Security Council sanctions against Iran are not eased unless procedures for automatic snap-backs are clearly established and the burden of proof placed squarely on Tehran. "No deal is better than a bad deal because Americans cannot let the world's most destructive weapons fall into the hands of the world's largest state-sponsor of terror," said Sasse after sending the letter. "What people haven't been told is that there are two kinds of sanctions against Iran- U.N. and American- and while public attention is focused on American sanctions, President Obama is willing to give away U.N. sanctions. Let's be clear: if the Administration reaches a deal in Vienna, the American people, acting through Congress, will judge its merits and determine U.S. sanctions policy. In the meantime, President Obama cannot allow the Security Council to ease U.N. sanctions on Iran without strong and verifiable snap-backs that put the burden of proof squarely on Tehran." Click here to view the letter. The full text of the letter is available below. POTUS cannot allow the Security Council to ease UN sanctions on #Iran without strong & verifiable snap-backs. http://t.co/2HnilhFtRS — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) July 8, 2015 Dear President Obama: As Members of Congress look forward to carefully reviewing the terms of a nuclear agreement subject to the Iran Review Act, I write to express my concern about the terms under which existing United Nations Security Council sanctions against Iran might be lifted pursuant to such an agreement. It is absolutely vital that any Security Council resolutions lifting sanctions contain a robust mechanism for the rapid reinstatement of sanctions if Iran fails to comply with any relevant obligations completely and verifiably. That means that any such resolution must contain procedures that clearly place the burden of proof on Iran. On April 17, 2015, you stated: "Our main concern here is making sure that if Iran doesn't abide by its agreement that we don't have to jump through a whole bunch of hoops in order to reinstate sanctions." That standard cannot be met if the Council enacts resolutions that merely declare Iran's obligation to comply proactively, but provide no practical, automatic consequences if any dispute over Iran's compliance remains unresolved. If a dispute over Iran's compliance arises, and the consequence is merely votes and referrals to the Security Council and more votes, then the burden of proof, for all practical purposes, will be on the United States to demonstrate Iran's noncompliance. Iran will then have a strong incentive to manufacture disputes over its compliance as a way to escape its obligations under the agreement. That is a recipe for failure. Any agreement that erects procedural hurdles between a dispute over Iran's compliance and the automatic reinstatement of sanctions will leave you and future presidents handicapped in your ability to keep the pressure on Iran. Without meaningful pressure, Iran will almost certainly continue its consistent pattern of lying and cheating on its nuclear weapons program. We should not give up on longstanding demands of the international community that Iran halt its enrichment of uranium and dismantle its dual-use nuclear facilities while Iran remains the world's most dangerous state-sponsor of terrorism. I am concerned that you have made one concession after another to secure Iran's agreement. As Senator Bob Corker wrote to you on June 15, 2015, your own administration officials have all but admitted that the sanctions relief will be used by Iran at some level to support terrorism. The message you are sending to other countries is that they can cheat and defy the international community and get away with it. No deal is better than a bad deal. Unless Iran agrees to anytime-anywhere inspections and verification measures, full disclosure of previous weaponization efforts, gradual and conditional sanctions relief, and automatic snap-back of sanctions, Congress should reject the deal and ensure that both sanctions and military action remain on the table to stop Iran's nuclear ambitions. The ultimate goal must be for Iran to dismantle its nuclear facilities, facilities built in secret and in violation of international law, facilities that it defends like military targets and doesn't need for anything except nuclear weapons. We cannot let the world's most dangerous weapons fall into the hands of the world's most dangerous state-sponsor of terrorism. The existing U.S. and U.N. sanctions may not have much chance of convincing this regime in Iran to give up its nuclear weapons ambitions. But those sanctions are a strong incentive for a future Iranian government that is peace-loving and law-abiding to turn away from the world's most dangerous capabilities. And those sanctions send a message that the pursuit of nuclear weapons is a blind alley into isolation from which there is no exit, as in the case of North Korea. Despite the enormous long-term leverage the sanctions give U.S. policy, your administration is lifting them under a deal that appears to legitimate the essential elements of Iran's nuclear weapons program. You are telegraphing to the world that if a rogue regime really wants nuclear capabilities, the U.S. has no diplomatic or military way of stopping them. That is a deplorably irresponsible, reckless, and false message, and it can only increase the risk of instability, armed conflict, and widespread nuclear proliferation in the long run. The contemplated agreement reportedly includes a dispute resolution mechanism. It is vitally important that the reinstatement of sanctions be triggered through an automatic procedure if a dispute over Iran's compliance is not fully resolved after a reasonable period. If the agreement does not provide for such a procedure, future presidents will be deprived of any effective diplomatic means for stopping Iran's nuclear breakout, and the chances for armed conflict will be dramatically increased. Please do not deprive our country of the few remaining diplomatic options that remain for resolving the Iran nuclear standoff peacefully. The burden of proof must be on Iran to demonstrate its compliance with the terms of the dangerous nuclear deal your team is negotiating. I look forward to reviewing the terms of any nuclear agreement as provided by the Iran Review Act, including the terms of any related Security Council resolution. There is no more important national security issue than ensuring Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon. Sincerely, Ben SasseUnited States Senator
06.29.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling that requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to consider the costs of compliance when regulating electric utilities. "This is a small but important step toward bringing some common sense to the EPA. Nebraskans who are frustrated that EPA bureaucrats have made a habit of unilaterally regulating can be pleased that the court introduced a small measure of sanity into Washington’s broken rulemaking process. "The EPA is too frequently immune to common sense and public accountability but I am encouraged that it must now at least consider the costs of its red tape. Congress should work to rein in this runaway agency. For too long, it has worked to regulate Nebraskans first and count the costs later, if at all."
06.26.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down its decision on same-sex marriage in Obergefell v. Hodges: “Today’s ruling is a disappointment to Nebraskans who understand that marriage brings a wife and husband together so their children can have a mom and dad. The Supreme Court once again overstepped its Constitutional role by acting as a super-legislature and imposing its own definition of marriage on the American people rather than allowing voters to decide in the states. “As a society, we need to celebrate marriage as the best way to provide stability and opportunity for kids. As President Obama has said, there are good people on both sides of the issue. I hope we all can agree that our neighbors deserve the freedom to live out their religious convictions.”
06.25.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down its decision in the King v. Burwell case, upholding ObamaCare’s subsidies: “The President’s victory comes at the expense of the American people. ObamaCare will continue to raise costs, restrict choices, and stifle innovation. While I am disappointed with the Supreme Court’s ruling, I am undeterred in my commitment to fully repealing ObamaCare’s command-and-control structure and starting over with true, patient-centered health care reform.” POTUS’s victory comes at the expense of the American people. I am undeterred in my commitment to full repeal of #ObamaCare. #KingVBurwell — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 25, 2015
06.22.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, issued the following statement about his "no" vote on the confirmation of Coast Guard Vice Admiral Peter Neffenger to head the Transportation Security Administration. "While Admiral Neffenger is an impressive man, it is naive and dangerous to pretend installing one director can heal what ails TSA. The Department of Homeland Security needs to admit that it has a crisis of bureaucratic complacency – lacking an overarching vision and coherent measures of success and failure.”
06.18.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, issued the following statement about today’s visit of Richard Cordray, the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to Omaha, Nebraska. “Richard Cordray and the CFPB aren’t accountable to Congress or the American people. With access to honest and accurate information, moms and dads can make financial decisions for themselves and for their families. They don’t need an unchecked Washington bureaucracy telling them how to do it. I hope Mr. Cordray listens to Nebraskans, and recognizes that unlimited agency power cannot implement what hard work and honesty achieve.” Question for Dir Cordray: If #CFPB lacks substantial oversight from Congress, SCOTUS & even POTUS, how do the people hold you accountable? — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 18, 2015
06.11.2015	After President Obama nominated Robert Rossiter, Jr., of Omaha to the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement in praise of Rossiter and Nebraska’s Senior Senator Deb Fischer: “I am tremendously grateful that for nearly two years—first alongside Senator Johanns and now as our state’s Senior Senator—Deb Fischer worked tirelessly to see that the Administration nominates a qualified and well-respected Nebraskan. Bob Rossiter is a qualified nominee with a breadth of experience and I trust he will receive strong bipartisan support in the Senate.” Robert F. Rossiter, Jr., is a partner at Fraser Stryker in Omaha. From 1982 to 1983, Rossiter served as a law clerk to the Honorable C. Arlen Beam of the United States District Court for the District of Nebraska. He is the President-Elect of the Nebraska State Bar Association. He received his J.D. cum laude from Creighton University School of Law in 1981 and his B.S. from Purdue University in 1978.
06.10.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that it would be regulating exhaust from airplanes. “The Obama Administration doesn’t know how to set priorities: This week – as the public learned more about the clear threat of having bombs smuggled onto the front of planes – the White House decided that the nation’s really urgent aircraft issue is the exhaust coming out the backend of planes.” Is Administration really more concerned w/ the exhaust leaving planes than the passengers who are getting on? #TSA http://t.co/rbatBGfMnA — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 10, 2015 Background: Today the EPA announced that airplane exhaust poses a health risk because exhaust “contributes” to climate change. This finding is the first step to regulating it. Today, when asked by Senator Sasse if the TSA was succeeding or failing at its mission, Coast Guard Vice Adm. Peter Neffenger responded: “I don't know if it is right now, but if confirmed, that is going to be my focus.” Yesterday, in a Homeland Security Committee Hearing, DHS Inspector General John Roth testified that testers, who “don’t have any specialized background or training in this kind of work,” succeeded in smuggling weapons and explosives through TSA checkpoints 67 times in 70 attempts.
06.09.2015	After it became clear during a Senate Homeland Security Committee that, despite multiple media reports and the Department of Homeland Security's own press release, so-called “Red Teams” were not used by the inspector general to expose the TSA’s security lapses, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement. “Washington hasn’t leveled with the American people and DHS is treating this like a PR crisis instead of a homeland security threat. TSA’s recent 96% failure rate was not the result of sophisticated so-called ‘Red Teams.’ The administration has an obligation to responsibly declassify the inspector general's investigation and to publicly release everything else it knows about TSA's failures.” 96% #TSA fail rate wasn’t against “super-terrorist”-like red teams, just regular IG auditors http://t.co/5ckcEUNXPp — Senator Ben Sasse (@SenSasse) June 9, 2015 Background: Although numerous media reports on TSA’s breathtaking security failures have cited specialized “Red Teams,” DHS Inspector General John Roth today testified that “the testers we used are auditors—these are members of the OIG workforce, they don’t have any specialized background or training in this kind of work.” Below is a partial transcript of Senator Sasse’s exchange with Inspector General Roth. Video of the exchange can be found here. SASSE: “Do you have a ‘Red Team’ that reports to you?” ROTH: “We do not. No. ‘Red Team,’ I think, is a term-of-art that TSA uses to do internal testing but we don’t identify ourselves as ‘Red Teams.’ SASSE: “So, in my understanding, the leaked report of last week showed that there have been 70 attempts by your investigators to smuggle weapons or improvised explosive devices—or fake explosive devices—onto planes the failure rate was 67 out of 70 times—a 96% failure rate. The public is taking some comfort in the idea that this investigation was supposedly done by ‘super terrorists’—is the term that’s reported in the media for the ‘Red Teams.’So the ‘Red Teams’ are not yours? And this leaked report is yours?” ROTH: “Again, I can’t confirm or deny any of the specific results or the specific methodology by which we did our testing. As I said, we don’t identify ourselves as ‘Red Teams.’ These are auditors that we use who are members of the inspector general’s office.” SASSE: “I appreciate this and I appreciate the classified briefings that you’ve given a number of us. I think what we hear you doing is clarifying that, in your employ, there are no ‘Red Teams.’” ROTH: “Correct.” SASSE: “Do you understand how the department—how the stories are out there that says that these were ‘Red Team’ investigations?” ROTH: “We don't. I was as disturbed as anyone by the fact that this information got into the media. We have done a number of classified penetration testings with absolutely no incident of leakage. We have started an investigation—preliminary investigation of this to try and determine exactly where the source of the leak was.” SASSE: “Do you have any discomfort with the communication strategy of the department that appears to be echoing these media testimonies? “I'll quote one from Secretary Johnson last week: ‘’Red Team’ testing of the aviation security network has been a part of the TSA mission for 13 years.’” “There are indeed ‘Red Teams’ at the DHS. You're not going to, in a non-classified setting, clarify the nature of your investigation that was leaked, but I think we heard you clearly say that your employees were mostly auditors.” ROTH: “That's correct.”
05.27.2015	“This is the epitome of Washington absurdity: instead of tackling the serious crises we face, the federal government is dramatically expanding the EPA’s power over our Nebraska waters.” U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, issued the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a final Waters of the United States rule. “This is the epitome of Washington absurdity: instead of tackling the serious crises we face, the federal government is dramatically expanding the EPA’s power over our Nebraska waters. It’s a clear picture of runaway government: it took the Homestead Act just two pages to open Nebraska for settlement but it takes the EPA nearly 300 pages to explain how it intends to displace state government’s regulation of local water. “Nebraskans care deeply about conservation but we know that this rule isn’t about improving the environment— it’s about keeping bureaucrats busy at the expense of agriculture. The EPA’s Waters of the United States rule is bad news for our state’s farmers and ranchers. I’ll continue to do everything I can to oppose it.” Background: Today, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released the final Waters of the United States rule under the Clean Water Act. The rule would dramatically expand federal authority and with it EPA’s power to levy fines and require additional permits and reporting. Senator Sasse, an outspoken critic of the EPA’s regulatory push, invited Mr. Jeff Metz of Morrill County, Nebraska to testify before the Senate Agriculture Committee on March 24 as the EPA was still moving the proposal through the rulemaking process.
05.20.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after the Senate and House of Representatives presented a Congressional Gold Medal to Donald McPherson of Adams, Nebraska. “Mr. McPherson recently described his service as ‘commonplace’ but there’s nothing ordinary about this Nebraskan’s valor. The Congressional Gold Medal is only a small token of thanks from a grateful nation. Nebraskans owe Mr. McPherson, a farm boy from Adams who risked his life to defend his country and save his comrades, an enduring debt of gratitude. His courage and humility exemplify the best of the American character.” McPherson earned his Ace status on May 4, 1945 when he shot down three Kamikaze aircraft. For his actions during WWII, McPherson earned numerous distinctions and awards, including the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Navy Air Medal. After the war, McPherson returned to Adams to farm and serve his community as a rural mail carrier. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’ highest civilian honor, first bestowed by the Continental Congress to George Washington. More information can be found here.
05.18.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today regarding the death of Captain Dustin Lukasiewicz: “Our prayers are with Captain Lukasiewicz’s family, especially his wife and their two children. Nebraskans are heartbroken and know that, while we can never fully repay our debt of gratitude, we are bound to honor Captain Lukasiewicz’s sacrifice and to care for his grieving family. This Nebraskan’s heroism is an enduring reminder of the American people’s commitment to extending comfort and relief to those suffering around the globe.” Capt. Dustin R. Lukasiewicz, from Wilcox, Nebraska, died on May 12, 2015 when his UH-1Y helicopter crashed during a humanitarian mission in Nepal.
05.11.2015	Today, the U.S. Senate passed S. Con. Res 16, stating the policy of the United States regarding the release of United States citizens in Iran. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a cosponsor of the resolution and an outspoken critic of the White House’s negotiations with Iran, issued the following statement: “Instead of making dangerous concessions to the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, the administration should champion freedom of the press, defend freedom of religion, and work toward the immediate release of our fellow Americans. Washington is too easily consumed with partisan fights and political legacy but we cannot forget these Americans and their families.” Background: S. Con. Res. 16, introduced by U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-ID) and co-sponsored by Sasse, calls for the release of four Americans: Pastor Saeed Abedini, former U.S. Marine Amir Hekmati, former FBI agent Robert Levinson, and Washington Post journalist Jason Rezaian. Text of the resolution’s findings and statement of policy is available below: “Findings. Congress makes the following findings: (1) Saeed Abedini of Idaho is a Christian pastor unjustly detained in Iran since 2012 and sentenced to eight years in prison on charges related to his religious beliefs. (2) Amir Hekmati of Michigan is a former United States Marine unjustly detained in 2011 while visiting his Iranian relatives and sentenced to 10 years in prison for espionage. (3) Jason Rezaian of California is a Washington Post journalist credentialed by the Government of Iran. He was unjustly detained in 2014 and has been held without a trial. (4) Robert Levinson of Florida is a former Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) official who disappeared in 2007 in Iran. He is the longest held United States citizen in United States history. “Statement of Policy. It is the policy of the United States that— (1) the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran should immediately release Saeed Abedini, Amir Hekmati, and Jason Rezaian, and cooperate with the United States Government to locate and return Robert Levinson; and (2) the United States Government should undertake every effort using every diplomatic tool at its disposal to secure their immediate release.”
05.07.2015	Today the Senate passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, legislation to give the American people a transparent look at any nuclear deal between the Obama Administration and Iran. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse, a cosponsor of the bill, issued the following statement: “Nebraskans understand two important points that Washington loses in political back-and-forth: first, a nuclear-armed Iran is absolutely unacceptable and, second, an agreement of this magnitude should be done by treaty. “Unfortunately, the White House is ready to make a dangerous, back-room deal with Iran and suspend sanctions without consulting the American people through their representatives in Congress. While this legislation is far from perfect, it takes a small step in the right direction by forcing the Administration to show Nebraskans the concessions they’re making to Tehran.”
04.28.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the video “Four Questions Nebraskans Have about the Iran Deal” today. After listening to Nebraskans, Sasse puts four simple questions to President Obama: 1) Didn’t we decide we wouldn’t tolerate state sponsors of terrorism? 2) Why change 36 years of bipartisan policy consensus that prohibited Iran’s nuclear weapons? 3) What is the administration’s best case scenario for a nuclear Iran? 4) What really happens if we lift the sanctions and Iran cheats? Excerpts of Sasse’s remarks are below: “The one topic that came up every single place we went was the President’s attempted Iranian nuclear deal. . . Not one time did we hear anybody who thinks the administration’s plans with regard to Iran are in the U.S.’s long-term interests. It seems like every conversation could be summarized in four questions people had.” “Frankly, it’s really hard to answer any of these four questions that folks were asking. So we thought we’d just throw them out there for President Obama’s consideration.” “Isn’t Iran still the world’s largest state sponsor of terror and, if so, what are we doing? Wasn’t the fundamental lesson of 9-11 that we would never just turn a blind-eye toward rogue regimes that sponsor terrorism and try to breed instability, try to support and fund those that would attack the U.S. homeland and try to destabilize our main allies around the world? Nebraskans believe that’s the main thing we learned about 9-11 and somehow the administration appears to be deciding to forget it.” “Why has the administration decided to change not only its position but 36 years of U.S. foreign policy about not allowing Iran to become a nuclear state? It’s been a bipartisan policy consensus—not just Republicans but all Republicans and all Democrats—going back to the Iranian hostage crisis of 1979-1980 that we never wanted Iran to become a nuclear threshold power. And even this administration, a year and a half ago, said the same thing—that they were not going to allow the Iranians to be enriching uranium. Now, they seem to have pivoted to a place where they’re willing to allow Iran to have 6,000 centrifuges enriching uranium. The people of my state want to know: why this change?” “Nebraskans want to know: what does the administration really believe the best case scenario is? Because folks have heard on TV the president saying he’d like to see Iran become a successful regional power. We don’t know why a regime that spews the hatred they do toward the U.S.—and says that it has as a national objective the annihilation of Israel—why we would possibly want them to become a successful regional power?” “What really happens now once we lift the sanctions—if that’s where the administration indeed takes us—what happens next if the Iranians cheat? Because the people of my state assume that Iran is going to cheat and they don’t know what happens after that, once the administration has allowed all these other nations to unravel the international inspections regime and the Russians have announced just in the last week that they’re going to sell weapon systems to Iran. So the people of my state think that once you allow the Iranians to take this step and get access to all of the sanctions dollars that are oversees—they don’t understand how you ever put Humpty Dumpty together again.” “There are so many regimes in that part of the world that, if they have nuclear weapons, it’s hard to imagine how they wouldn’t ultimately be used. And the people of the heartland want to ask you, Mr. President: would you please re-think this? Because they think this is a really dangerous step that makes the Middle East and, therefore, the entire world less safe.”
04.22.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after supporting the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which was passed today after a six-week-long impasse: “The depravity of human trafficking should scar the conscience of every Nebraskan and compel us to protect the weak and voiceless among us. Today's legislation is an important step forward. As parents and Nebraskans, Melissa and I are heartbroken for the victims of modern day slavery and committed to ending these injustices.” Additional Background S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, would: Improve law enforcement’s ability to target those who purchase sex or labor from a trafficking victim and hold them responsible as a human trafficker under the law. Recognize child pornography production as a form of human trafficking. Protect victims and witnesses by requiring traffickers to be treated as violent criminals for purposes of pre-trial release, monitoring, and detention. Streamline the ability of state and local task forces to obtain wiretap warrants in order to investigate crimes of child pornography, child sexual exploitation, and human trafficking.
04.15.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 2, the House-passed “Doc-Fix” legislation: “Everyone should be relieved that Washington’s SGR is no longer holding Nebraska doctors hostage—an important goal that all my colleagues share—but I’m disappointed that Congress replaced one budget gimmick with another. The math is clear: Medicare is racing toward bankruptcy. Washington cannot avoid tough decisions forever and Nebraskans deserve a serious conversation about reforming our broken entitlement programs and protecting the next generation from a European-style decline.” The Senate passed the legislation by a vote of 92-8.
04.06.2015	Lincoln, NE—This weekend, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse and six other Senators wrapped up a visit to Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq over the weekend. “This was a tremendous privilege to thank the Nebraskans serving overseas on behalf of everyone back home,” said Sasse. “Although our troops are optimistic that progress is being made and remain determined to see their mission through, many of the soldiers I spoke with expressed their concern that Washington lacks the political will to support their ongoing mission.” Over eight days, Sasse met with U.S. troops, military officials and political leaders to discuss political, economic and security issues—including threats from both ISIS and Iranian influence in the region—affecting bilateral relations. In addition to visiting with troops, Sasse met with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, Israeli President Rivlin, Jordanian King Abdullah, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, Iraqi President Masum, Afghan President Ghani, Afghan Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah, and Kurdistan Region President Masoud Barzani. “One of the most urgent threats we face in the Middle East is the rapid spread of jihadi terror in ISIS,” said Sasse. “Although our allies have benefitted from a smooth transition to new political leaders—like Iraqi Prime Minister al-Abadi and Afghan President Ghani—and have retaken territory from ISIS, there’s a long and uncertain road ahead.” While Sasse was overseas, the Obama Administration announced a framework for a nuclear agreement with Iran to be finalized before June 30, 2015. After meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, Sasse remains strongly opposed to any deal that would permit a nuclear Iran. “Like most Nebraskans, I am completely opposed to a nuclear Iran and don’t understand the White House’s perceived willingness to agree to such bad terms,” concluded Sasse. “Two things are clear though. First, the United States must not accept any deal that falls short of eliminating Iran’s nuclear program. Second, the American people—acting through their elected members of Congress—have a right to thoroughly review any deal.” Sasse was joined on the trip by U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), David Perdue (R-GA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC).
03.27.2015	U.S. Senator Ben Sasse issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Senate’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget resolution: “Nebraskans have a reason to be prudently optimistic: for the first time in years, Congress has an opportunity to pass a budget that leads to balance. The Senate budget offers a roadmap to tackle Washington’s runaway spending, set long-term priorities, and start working on entitlement reform. “This isn’t a perfect budget—I would have preferred more urgency in fixing Washington’s broken entitlement and poverty programs—but it is a roadmap. I’m optimistic that my colleagues and I are just beginning a conversation about the things Nebraskans regard as the most important duties of government.” The budget resolution was adopted by a vote of 52-46.
03.24.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse welcomed Jeff Metz from Angora, NE to the Senate Committee on Agriculture to testify on the devastating impact of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers’ proposed “waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. “The lack of common sense in Washington outrages Nebraskans: EPA bureaucrats are trying to regulate puddles and ditches,” said Sasse, chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing and Agriculture Security. “This is nonsense—have these people ever set foot on a farm or ranch? Congress needs to hear from Nebraskans who care about clean water but have to pay the price for foolish red tape. It’s an honor to have Jeff Metz testify before the Agriculture Committee and I hope that his perspective on this important issue brings some seriousness to Washington.” “It’s important that our elected leaders understand American farmers and ranchers are stewards of the land,” said Jeff Metz, owner and operator of the Metz Land and Cattle Company of Angora, Nebraska. “The EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ ‘Waters of the U.S.’ rule proposal isn’t about clean water. It’s about expanding the reach of the federal government onto every farm and ranch in the country in a way that not only exceeds the power given them in the Clean Water Act, but in a way that would hurt farm and ranch families by allowing the federal government to control how we use our land.” Background: On March 25, 2014, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers released a proposed rule to redefine “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. The proposal would dramatically expand federal authority, in some cases subjecting regular farming and ranching tasks like plowing, fertilizing, or building fences to the Clean Water Act’s permitting and reporting requirements. The EPA continues to move the proposal through the rulemaking process, despite their lack of outreach to state and local governments and failure to conduct an adequate economic analysis. Many expect the EPA to issue a finalized rule in the spring or summer of this year. Senator Sasse, an outspoken critic of the EPA’s proposal and member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, invited Mr. Jeff Metz of Morrill county to testify before the committee today. Metz is the owner and operator of the Metz Land and Cattle Company of Angora, Nebraska, where he runs a cow-calf operation and farms winter wheat and other crops. Since 2010, he has served also as a County Commissioner in Morrill County, so his perspective is informed by both his experience as a farmer and rancher and also by his role in local government.
03.17.2015	Last night, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse introduced the Amnesty Bonuses Elimination Act, legislation to ensure that new Social Security Numbers are not issued to illegal aliens receiving deferred action under the President’s unlawful executive amnesty. “Presidents should enforce the laws—not unilaterally rewrite them—and it’s time for Congress to hold this Administration accountable,” said Sasse. “By preventing this Administration from issuing new Social Security Numbers to illegal aliens, the ABE Act would help restore the rule of law and save taxpayers billions of dollars.” “Washington shouldn’t give special treatment to illegal aliens. This used to be bipartisan, common sense: in 1996, when President Clinton and Speaker Gingrich worked to reform welfare, Congress made Social Security Numbers a prerequisite for the Earned Income Tax Credit precisely to make sure that benefits did not go to individuals who broke the law. “Unfortunately, by offering new Social Security Numbers and payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Administration is undermining the spirit of the 1996 Welfare Reform Act and opening the possibility for amnesty bonuses of more than $24,000 in some cases.” Background on the Amnesty Bonuses Elimination (ABE) Act: President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty would allow millions of illegal aliens to obtain Social Security Numbers and, with them, billions of dollars in federal benefits like the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, illegal aliens will file an estimated 800,000 claims for $2 billion in EITC benefits. The ABE Act would ensure that new SSNs are not issued to anyone who receives deferred action under the President’s executive amnesty. Specifically, it would amend the Social Security Act to prohibit the Commissioner of Social Security from providing new Social Security accounts to anyone who receives deferred action as a result of the Administration’s actions on June 15, 2012 and November 20, 2014. On February 6, 2015, Senator Ben Sasse and Senator Ron Johnson, chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, sent a letter to Treasury Inspector General Russell George, the federal government’s IRS watchdog, seeking answers regarding previously undisclosed consequences of the Administration’s new policy of deferred action. Last week, on March 13, 2015, Sasse joined with Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, in sending a letter Thursday to Social Security Administration Commissioner Carolyn Colvin, requesting information about how many illegal aliens have received Social Security numbers and benefits thus far under President Obama’s unlawful and unconstitutional executive amnesty.
03.13.2015	U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) joined with Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, in sending a letter Thursday to Social Security Administration Commissioner Carolyn Colvin. In their letter, the Senators request information about how many illegal aliens have received Social Security numbers and benefits thus far under President Obama’s unlawful and unconstitutional executive amnesty. “The American people have a right to know the full costs of President Obama's unlawful executive amnesty,” said Sasse. “The White House unilaterally re-wrote the laws and taxpayers are just beginning to learn the full scope of these actions. Congress has a duty to conduct oversight and hold the Administration accountable for its actions and use of taxpayer dollars.” The text of the Senators’ letter is found below: Dear Commissioner Colvin: We write today to ask for current information about the number of individuals who have been granted Social Security Numbers pursuant to the administration’s deferred action policies. It is our understanding that through January 8, 2013, the Social Security Administration had granted approximately 90,000 Social Security Numbers (SSNs) to noncitizens who were granted deferred action pursuant to the President’s “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals” (DACA) program. To assist us in our constitutional oversight responsibilities with respect to these matters, we ask that you provide us with the following information: · How many individuals have applied for SSNs as a result of the June 15, 2012, memorandum issued by Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano entitled “Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children”? · How many individuals have obtained SSNs as a result of the June 15, 2012, memorandum? · How many individuals have applied for SSNs as a result of the November 20, 2014, memorandum issued by Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson entitled “Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children and with Respect to Certain Individuals Who are the Parents of U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents”? · How many individuals have obtained SSNs as a result of the November 20, 2014, memorandum? · Have any of these individuals applied for and received benefits under either the Social Security Disability Insurance program or the Supplemental Security Income program? Thank you in advance for your efforts to assist us in this matter, we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Ben Sasse U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions U.S. Senator
02.27.2015	This morning, Senator Ben Sasse appeared on Fox and Friends to discuss the Obama Administration’s plan to hold uninsured patients hostage in the event that the Supreme Court rules against HHS in King v. Burwell. Video is available here and excerpts are found below. “Let's translate what the administration is really saying here: Secretary Burwell uses so much political speak but what she really means is that, if the court finds for the rule of law and that they’ve acted illegally in these 37 states . . . she then says we've taken hostages so that when cancer patients are thrown off their plans we'll have no backup plan and we can blame Republican governors.” “We need to not expand ObamaCare, not extend ObamaCare, not fix ObamaCare but we need to offer transitional, temporary assistance to the 6 million people who will suffer from yet another ‘if you like your plan, you can keep your plan’ bait-and-switch.”
02.19.2015	Lincoln, NE— U.S. Senator Ben Sasse released the video “U.S.-Iran Nuclear Talks: The Real Story,” outlining his concerns with the dangerous path the Administration is taking toward a nuclear agreement with Iran. Video, excerpts, and a full transcript of the Senator’s remarks are found below. Excerpts: “[I]n a perversion of language that makes no sense to anyone who lives outside the DC bubble, the Administration is claiming that they have made ‘progress’ with Iran by moving the goalposts against our own objectives and interests.” “To quote a Nebraskan the other day: It’s like the President has never even bought a used car before – and now he’s negotiating nukes with the world’s most dangerous nation. This isn’t negotiating; this is getting your lunch money taken in an alley.” “The bottom line is this: we have a President who sadly appears more interested in the idea of burnishing his legacy than in doing the hard work of admitting that we have a jihadi crisis in the Middle East. Regrettably, it appears that our enemies also know that the Administration will cut almost any deal, so of course on those terms we lack leverage. Diplomacy has gone from being a means to an end in itself.” Full transcript: Hi, I’m Ben Sasse. I’ve been traveling across Nebraska this week, and a number of folks have been telling me their worries about the Iranian nuclear program. If you’ve not been paying close attention to this subject, here’s why all of us should care deeply about the dangerous path our government is on toward a deal with Iran: In November, the Iranian Supreme Leader talked yet again about annihilating Israel. Then in January, right after U.S. officials praised Yemen for partnering with us in fighting ISIS, Iran funded a coup by Islamic terrorists that took down the government, a huge black eye for America. At about the same time, an Argentinean prosecutor was assassinated as he prepared to reveal an Iranian link to the murder of 85 Jews in Buenos Aires. Meanwhile, back home, Iran has been purposely pursuing the development of an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile. We're not talking about a weapon that can merely reach Jerusalem here, we're talking weapons that have the potential of reaching Los Angeles. This is just the recent backdrop against which the Obama Administration has been negotiating with Iran about its intolerable nuclear program. Any discussion of this program needs to begin with one simple fact: It has been the undisputed U.S. policy for decades that we would not accept any deal with Tehran short of eliminating Iran’s nuclear program. Elimination of the program, period. But now, in a perversion of language that makes no sense to anyone who lives outside the DC bubble, the Administration is claiming that they have made “progress” with Iran by moving the goalposts against our own objectives and interests. As the Washington Post has rightly editorialized in recent weeks, the Obama Administration has now decided to reset our goal at merely “temporarily restricting” the Iranian nuke program. This is the opposite of eliminating the program. This is, instead, explicitly tolerating a renegade nuclear program. Why the change? It is really hard to understand, but it appears that the Administration wants a deal with Iran so desperately that it will accept any deal – even if contrary to our interests. Given how lazy so much of the national media has been about investigating anything the government announces with grand-triumph press releases, look for most American and European journalists not to ask tough questions when the Administration soon claims that it has reached some sort of supposed “landmark deal” with Iran. In all likelihood, the coming deal will not be any sort of victory for U.S. interests, but rather a near total surrender by America on this issue. Make no mistake: Allowing Iran to keep its nuclear program will be a failure, not a success. There are six UN resolutions prohibiting uranium enrichment that help set the basis for the U.S.’s past opposition to the Iran nuke program. Now, however, instead of sticking with demands for the complete destruction of this nuclear program, our Administration is apparently preparing to give Iran -- the undisputed, largest state sponsor of terror in the world—billions of dollars per month of additional sanctions relief; a broader role in the region; and simultaneously allow them to keep their nuclear program. That's what this Administration calls a deal. To quote a Nebraskan the other day: It’s like the President has never even bought a used car before – and now he’s negotiating nukes with the world’s most dangerous nation. This isn’t negotiating; this is getting your lunch money taken in an alley. We are going to look back on this as a watershed moment for American foreign policy. Allowing a terror-supporting, Israel-hating, American troop-killing enemy of the U.S. to take a broader leadership role in the Middle East is foolishly short-sighted. And it’s a horrible betrayal of our allies. This agreement will likely ignite an immediate nuclear arms race in the region, further endanger Israel, Jordan, and other allies, and eventually increasing the probability that a nuclear device makes its way to one of our cities. You can't summarize it any better than former Sec. of State Henry Kissinger did in testimony before the Senate two weeks ago: if we allow Iran to have nukes, we are no longer going to be talking about preventing nuclear proliferation across the Middle East; we are instead going to be talking only about trying to manage the nuclear proliferation that will then be inevitable across the region, as every state attempts to race to the trigger point. The bottom line is this: we have a President who sadly appears more interested in the idea of burnishing his legacy than in doing the hard work of admitting that we have a jihadi crisis in the Middle East. Regrettably, it appears that our enemies also know that the Administration will cut almost any deal, so of course on those terms we lack leverage. Diplomacy has gone from being a means to an end in itself. I don’t think even Jimmy Carter would make a deal this bad. The American people should not stand for this. There is simply too much on the line here -- for the U.S. and for Israel. It doesn’t matter what party any of us belong to; those of us who care about the safety and security of America and Israel need to forward this message to family and friends, and we need melt the switchboards at the White House and on Capitol Hill. We need to stand up and oppose any deal that would allow Iran to continue its nuclear program. I'm Ben Sasse, thanks for listening.
02.18.2015	U.S. Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse of Nebraska released the following statement this afternoon after cosponsoring a resolution to welcome Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to a joint session of Congress next month: “As the administration’s negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program near their deadline, the American people deserve a chance to hear directly from our strongest ally in the region. We welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu to Congress and look forward to hearing his perspective on the nuclear negotiations and their implications for the future security of the Middle East.” On March 3, 2015, Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel will speak to a joint session of Congress. This will be his third appearance before Congress, following remarks he delivered on July 10, 1996 and May 24, 2011.
02.10.2015	Chairman Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), along with Ranking Member Tom Carper (D-Del.) and Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) traveled to Corpus Christi, Hidalgo and McAllen, Texas over the weekend, and met with ranchers, sheriffs and Border Patrol agents as a way of examining the challenges associated with securing our southern border. The senators observed an unmanned aircraft system (UAS) operation and viewed aerostats, visited a port of entry, toured a Border Patrol station and a centralized processing center that handled a large part of the surge in unaccompanied children crossing the border last summer, and got a feel for the terrain with a riverine and border line tour. Senator Johnson remarked when he returned from the border, “In spite of heroic efforts of public safety personnel, America is not winning the illegal immigration battle on our southern border. Much can be done to improve interdiction at the border, but we must also realize — and change — the harmful unintended consequences of federal government policies that fuel illegal immigration and frustrate prosecution and deportation efforts that follow apprehension. That is what we hope to correct as we craft real common-sense border security and immigration enforcement legislation over the next weeks and months.” Senator Carper said, “This trip will help lay groundwork for our Committee to continue a critical discussion on border security and comprehensive immigration reform. Together, Chairman Johnson, Senator Sasse and I saw firsthand the tangible progress that has been made in securing our southern border, where the use of new and innovative technologies, like surveillance aerostats, are helping patrol officers monitor and maintain security. But while substantive progress has been made, challenges certainly remain. It is critical that we continue our efforts to make the border more secure in a cost effective and efficient manner as part of our overall strategy to fix our broken immigration system. At the same time, we must address the underlying causes – the lack of hope, economic opportunity, and security – that continue to push thousands of undocumented migrants to make the dangerous journey to the United States. I am eager to work with Chairman Johnson, Senator Sasse and my colleagues in the committee to drive this conversation forward.” Senator Sasse said, “Too often, politicians from both parties talk about the border as if it isn't a real and dangerous place. If we want to fight human trafficking and protect American citizens from jihadi-minded migrants, we need to take a clear look at the challenges we face and set high goals with data-driven metrics to hold Washington’s bureaucracies accountable. This was a tremendous opportunity to hear from our men and women on the ground—it’s time to start tackling these problems with real solutions."
02.05.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Ben Sasse and U.S. Senator Ron Johnson, Chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, sent a letter to Treasury Inspector General Russell George, the federal government’s IRS watchdog, seeking answers regarding previously undisclosed consequences of the Administration’s new policy of deferred action. The Senators issued the following statements: “By offering illegal aliens new payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit, the IRS may encourage fraud from those claiming children living in other countries. The Administration may have blown open the doors for fraud with amnesty bonuses of more than $24,000 to those who receive deferred action,” said Sasse. “This is basic economics: if you want more of something, you subsidize it. By subsidizing illegal entry with four years’ worth of new tax credits, the IRS would promote lawlessness. This program severely undermines the White House’s lip-service to enforcing the law and would increase the burden on law-abiding taxpayers.” Chairman Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) made these remarks, “Non-U.S. citizens who qualify for President Obama’s temporary deferred actions will now be eligible to receive permanent Social Security numbers. A Social Security number is the key that opens a whole treasure chest of benefits, including significant tax credits. Most notably, qualifying applicants for the president’s programs can now claim thousands – even tens of thousands – of dollars in payments from the Earned Income Tax Credit and, for some, the Additional Child Tax Credit. These two programs, which cost taxpayers $89.6 billion in 2013, were responsible for $21 billion in improper, potentially fraudulent payments that same year. Americans deserve to know where their taxpayer dollars are being spent and whether the Internal Revenue Service is failing to protect them from improper payments.” A copy of the Senators’ letter is found below: Dear Inspector General George: This week, witnesses at a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee discussed the implications of the President’s executive amnesty. We would appreciate your views on the testimony of Eileen O’Connor, formerly with the Department of Justice Tax Division, who discussed the tax consequences of the President’s new policies. We would like to summarize her comments briefly and would appreciate your assessment of whether what we heard was accurate. According to Ms. O’Connor, the President’s executive actions will not only allow illegal aliens to stay in the country for three years, but would also award them with free federal money. Right now, the law requires anyone who lives and works in the country illegally to be returned to their home country. The law also prohibits these individuals from getting many federal benefits available to U.S. citizens and legal residents. As Ms. O’Connor explained, however, the President effectively re-wrote the law in a way that significantly changed the status of some of those here illegally. From this point forward, any illegal alien who is approved under the new rules to stay in the U.S. – a process known as “deferred action” – will now be allowed to receive a Social Security Number. The significance of this change, Ms. O’Connor noted, is that having a Social Security Number will allow individuals to get federal benefits that were previously unavailable. In particular, it could allow millions of people to receive a tax benefit known as the Earned Income Tax Credit, or EITC. Under the law, families with low to moderate incomes can get an EITC cash payment as high as $6,143, but only if they have a Social Security Number. For some people, the total amount could go even higher. This is because under EITC rules, anyone eligible for the program can also ask for payments to cover the three prior years as well. This means that an illegal alien with a new Social Security Number can get a payment of more than $24,000 for years they were working illegally. On top of this, Ms. O’Connor noted, families could also get thousands more in payments through the Additional Child Tax Credit program. This means a family with three or more children might collect even more than $24,000. Ms. O’Connor concluded by pointing to the work of your office, which has found enormous fraud rates in both the EITC program and in the Additional Child Tax Credit program. Therefore, we are concerned that because the President’s new rules would let millions of people access these programs for the first time, the cost to the taxpayer could be billions of dollars. When the President announced his new polices in November, these facts were not included. Moreover, none of the documents released by the administration provided any explanation for this, either. In light of her testimony, we would greatly appreciate if you could provide answers to the following questions: Is the above summary of Ms. O’Connor’s testimony an accurate description of the effects of the President’s executive actions? Given the high rates of fraud in both tax credit programs, is there an incentive for tax filers to fraudulently claim more children than they have? To be eligible for the Additional Child Tax Credit, is a tax filer required to provide a Social Security Number for each claimed child? Is it possible for individuals to claim tax benefits under either program for children that do not live in the United States? If so, can you estimate the amount of fraudulent claims? If someone with children who has worked in the United States receives deferred action and gets a new Social Security Number, but has never filed their taxes, what is the highest amount that person might receive under both tax credit programs? What additional tax benefits might someone be eligible for with a Social Security Number that they would not have been eligible for with merely an Individual Tax Identification Number? What do you estimate will be the full cost of providing EITC benefits to illegal aliens under the President’s executive actions? How many people do you estimate will be eligible for EITC benefits under the President’s executive actions who were not previously eligible? Is the Internal Revenue Service equipped to detect and prevent fraud as it processes millions of new claims for EITC benefits? We appreciate your assistance in better understanding this issue and believe both Congress and the American people will benefit from a full accounting of the facts. Sincerely, Ben Sasse Ron Johnson U.S. Senator Chairman ###
01.28.2015	Today, United States Senator Ben Sasse was named chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture Security. “It is a tremendous honor to serve as the chairman of this important subcommittee,” said Senator Sasse. “Nebraskans know farming and ranching better than anyone in Washington and I’m honored to take their insight, ideas, and hard-work approach to the subcommittee. Our state leads the country in red meat production and pioneers innovations for the next generation of farming. I look forward to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Nebraska’s producers as we promote responsible policy and keep the future of agriculture strong.” “I am pleased to have Senator Sasse on the Committee and I am looking forward to the knowledge and fresh perspective he brings to our work on behalf of American agriculture,” Chairman Roberts said. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing and Agriculture Security, he will be well positioned to represent Nebraskans’ interests in these issues.” The Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture Security has jurisdiction over livestock issues, agricultural marketing programs, pest and disease management, agriculture security, and dairy programs. “Nebraska beef producers need common-sense laws that provide opportunities for growing our industry,” said Nebraska Cattlemen (NC) President Dave McCracken. “It’s exciting to have a leader with Nebraska common-sense on this important subcommittee. NC is proud to congratulate Senator Sasse on his chairmanship and look forward to working together to benefit Nebraska beef cattle producers.” “Nebraska has much at stake related to the livestock sector given its place as the number one cattle feeding and total red meat producing state,” said Nebraska Farm Bureau Federation President Steve Nelson. “Our cattle, pork, dairy and poultry industries will now have a strong voice on the Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture Security thanks to the leadership and commitment of Senator Sasse. We look forward to working with him in this new role for the betterment of Nebraska’s livestock economy.”
01.20.2015	United States Senator Ben Sasse will welcome Dr. Philip Smith, Medical Director of the University of Nebraska Medical Center’s Biocontainment Unit, to tonight’s State of the Union Address. Dr. Smith leads the specialized Nebraska team that treated three Ebola patients last year. “By risking their lives for strangers, Nebraska’s biocontainment team inspired us to service above ourselves,” said Senator Sasse. “The courage, precision, and hard work of these doctors, nurses, and medical professionals saved lives, educated health providers, and calmed public fears. Nebraskans are tremendously grateful for Dr. Smith’s team and it is an honor to welcome him to Washington as a representative of UNMC's dedicated staff." “I am deeply honored to have been invited by Sen. Sasse to attend the State of the Union Address. This is a tribute to all of our dedicated and skilled staff who make it possible for us to care for Ebola patients at the Nebraska Biocontainment Unit,” said Dr. Phil Smith, Medical Director of the UNMC Biocontainment Unit. Nebraska’s Biocontainment Patient Care ‎Unit is the largest in the country and one of just four facilities in the United States equipped and trained to handle Ebola and other highly contagious diseases. Between September and November of last year, the UNMC’s world-class Biocontainment Unit successfully treated Dr. Rick Sacra and freelance journalist Ashoka Mukpo. The University of Nebraska Medical Center established the gold standard in treatment of Ebola. Since the fight against Ebola began, the UNMC Biocontainment Unit staff has trained the staffs of more than 40 hospitals across the United States in how to safely handle and treat Ebola patients. More detailed information on the unit and Ebola is available here.
01.06.2015	Today, Ben Sasse was officially sworn-in as the Junior Senator from Nebraska. The fifth-generation Nebraskan and former President of Midland University was joined by his wife, Melissa, and three young children for the ceremony in Washington, D.C. “I am tremendously grateful for the privilege of representing Nebraskans, humbled to follow one of our state’s most distinguished public servants, Senator Mike Johanns, and committed to tackling our country’s challenges with common-sense solutions and big ideas,” said Sasse. According to Senate tradition, Nebraska's Senior Senator, Deb Fischer, escorted Senator Sasse to Vice President Joseph Biden, who administered the oath of office on the Senate floor. “Like most Nebraskans, I want a humble politics that has Washington do fewer things but tackle our most important challenges with greater urgency, more transparency, and less partisan shouting,” said Sasse. “When Melissa and I started this project, our motto was ‘Go big or go home’ and that’s going to be our motto every day for the next six years.” Honoring his campaign pledge to sponsor term-limit legislation, Senator Sasse agreed to partner with Senator David Vitter (R-LA) to become an original cosponsor of a constitutional amendment to limit members of the Senate to two terms and members of the House of Representatives to three terms. “We promised to fight Washington’s obsession with short-term popularity and permanent political incumbency from day one. I'm pleased to partner with Senator David Vitter to keep that promise and I look forward to the challenges ahead.” Sasse requested and received the desk previously used by Senator Mike Johanns (R-NE) and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-NY).
