01.04.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the following 2019 schedule for Town Forums that will be held throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. Congressman Visclosky stated, “I am looking forward to the 2019 Town Forums and hearing directly from residents about their issues of concern and how I can best serve and represent their interests this coming year in the 116th Congress.” Friday – January 18, 2019 10:00 a.m. Michigan City – City Hall – Council Chambers 100 East Michigan Boulevard Michigan City, Indiana 46360 12:00 p.m. Porter County Government Center – County Commissioners’ Chambers 155 Indiana Avenue Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 2:00 p.m. Woodland Park 2100 Willowcreek Road Portage, Indiana 46368 4:00 p.m. Purdue University Northwest – Student Union Library Building – Room with a View 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323 6:00 p.m. Dyer Town Hall 1 Town Square Dyer, Indiana 46311 Saturday – January 19, 2019 11:00 a.m. Crown Point Civic Center 101 South East Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 1:00 p.m. The Center for Visual and Performing Arts 1040 Ridge Road Munster, Indiana 46321 3:00 p.m. Gary Public Library and Cultural Center 220 West 5th Avenue Gary, Indiana 46402 5:00 p.m. Lake Station City Hall 1969 Central Avenue Lake Station, Indiana 46405 Please note that all times listed are Central Standard Time. ###
12.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in response to an impending government shutdown. This impending government shutdown has been caused by the failure of the President and a Congress controlled by his party to complete its basic work for the fiscal year that started 82 days ago. Further, any Continuing Resolution (CR) through February 8, 2019, is just a protraction of uncertainty for vast portions of our government to operate for one-third of its year, and it is designed to be particularly disruptive as it is set to expire the week the budget for the next fiscal year is due to be presented to the next Congress. I am absolutely opposed to this lack of governance. I hope in the coming hours and days that we can begin to have more sensible discussions that prioritize solving problems to benefit our economy and the workers and families of our nation. ###
12.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky and U.S. Senator Todd Young (R-Ind.) announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded a grant for Michigan City under the Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Grant program. The $2.3 million grant award will support Michigan City’s efforts to initiate a robust lead reduction program designed to remove and/or control lead based paint hazards in privately owned rental or owner-occupied housing units. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mayor Ron Meer and the Michigan City Committee on Lead for their dedication and diligence to successful identify this federal resource. I hope that this grant award proves useful to support their good work to protect our environment and all individuals and families from the dangers of lead.” “This is great news for Michigan City and its Hoosier residents,” U.S. Senator Todd Young said. “We must continue to reduce and remediate lead in homes across Indiana to keep Hoosiers safe from the dangerous effects of lead exposure.” Michigan City Mayor Ron Meer stated, “I am extremely excited that the City of Michigan City will be receiving this $2.3 million grant. My administration has been committed to protecting our natural resources and to providing a safe and healthy place to live. In 2017, I established the Michigan City Committee on Lead to help educate the community about the dangers of lead and preventative measures to protect families from exposure to lead. This HUD grant will allow us to expand our efforts by remediating the hazards associated with lead based paint in homes within our community. We have no greater resource than our children, and I can’t think of a more important project than one that will eliminate the severe long-term health effects associated with expose to lead at a young age.” For additional information on this HUD grant program, click here. ###
10.17.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded a grant to the Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana (CAF) under the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Susan Harwood Training Grant Program. The $133,510 grant award will assist the CAF with the creation and implementation of a Crystalline Silica Training Program for construction workers and employers in Northwest Indiana, with a focus on small business employers. The training will include the recognition and correction for exposure to respirable silica produced from certain uses of concrete and other construction material containing silica. Dr. Jim Arendas, Environmental, Safety, and Health Director at the Construction Advancement Foundation, stated, “The Construction Advancement Foundation is dedicated to reducing injuries and illnesses in the construction industry. We work closely with contractors and the union building trades. The Susan Harwood Grant gives our organization an additional opportunity to partner with contractors, workers, and OSHA to improve construction safety in Northwest Indiana.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I commend CAF Executive Director Dewey Pearman and Dr. Jim Arendas for successfully identifying and obtaining this federal resource that will improve the ability of contractors and workers to have a safe work environment. The number one priority for all of our dedicated construction workers is to return home safely at the end of the day, and I thank CAF for their initiative to recognize and promote the safety, quality, and dignity of our incredible workforce.” For additional information on this OSHA program, click here. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky in support of the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery during the House floor consideration of the legislation. I thank the Ranking Member for yielding. Fiscal Year 2019 starts on October 1st and it is wonderful to be here in September considering a Conference Agreement on two additional measures. I would like to commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey for bringing a semblance of regular order back to the appropriations process. Along with their Senate counterparts, they have managed to navigate an upset political situation that has completely stymied the process for years. When this two-bill package is signed into law, it will be the first time in 22 years that there have been five appropriations bills enacted before the start of the fiscal year. I wish we had seven more bills conferenced and ready for enactment, but it appears those will be deferred until December. I hope that maturity, bipartisan cooperation, and responsible governance will also apply to their consideration and prompt enactment. Timeliness is as important as final dollar determinations. I would also like to recognize my Chairwoman, Kay Granger. She, along with the tremendous subcommittee staff, have conducted themselves in an incredibly bipartisan and collegial manner. As a result, this bill reflects the will of Congress and provides the necessary resources for our women and men in uniform. Specific to the Department of Defense, this will be the first time in a decade that our military will not begin the fiscal year under a Continuing Resolution. The lack of predictable appropriations has been a major obstacle to the planning and execution of programs, military readiness, and morale. Having timely appropriations should improve and stabilize budgeting by the Department, the Services, our allies, and contractors. I expect this certainty will also allow the Department to better adhere to Congressional direction, to spend the funding as appropriated, to increase transparency for budget exhibits, and to improve the quality and timeliness of communication, as has been referenced on pages 8, 9, 10, and 21 of the House Report. Again, I thank my colleagues and the staff. I look forward to completing the work before us and yield back my time. ###
09.14.2018	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and Todd Young (R-IN), and U.S. Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN-01) announced that the Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a grant to Porter-Starke Services under the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment program. The $449,393 grant award is the first year of an anticipated $1.2 million program to address the increased instances of opiate addiction and overdose deaths. Specifically, the funding will be used to increase access to medication asissted treatment plans, which include counseling and other supportive services. The funding also will be used to improve services to individuals in the criminal justice system, as well as increase the use of tele-psychiatry and engage the community in the design and evaluation of treatment and response to these disorders. President and CEO of Porter-Starke Services Matthew Burden stated, “This funding will build on our services to help those with an opioid use disorder to overcome addiction, and address transportation or financial barriers that may have prevented someone from obtaining care. We believe that treatment can and does make a difference, and our program has even been shown to help individuals improve their employment status and overall health. Through this grant, we will be able to reach even more people who are ready to begin their path to recovery.” Senator Joe Donnelly stated, “As we work to combat the opioid abuse epidemic, this grant will help give more Hoosiers access to treatment and recovery services. I’m glad to see this grant coming to Porter-Starke Services where folks across Northwest Indiana will be able to get the assistance they need.” Senator Todd Young stated, “As the opioid epidemic continues to devastate families and communities throughout Indiana, this grant is welcome news. We must utilize all available tools to help curb this epidemic, and I am hopeful that this funding will help more people in Northwest Indiana receive the treatment they need.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mr. Burden and all the leaders of Porter-Starke Services for successfully identifying and obtaining this federal resource. Your essential health care services improve the lives of countless individuals in Northwest Indiana, and I am pleased that this grant will further expand and enhance your good work.” For additional information on this grant program, click here. ###
08.02.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded a grant for the Michigan City Municipal-Phillips Field Airport. The $339,722 grant award supports updates to the existing airport layout plan and an ongoing environmental study to evaluate any potential environmental impacts related to relocating U.S. Highway 20 to improve the runway safety area. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mayor Ron Meer and the Michigan City Board of Aviation Commissioners for successfully identifying and utilizing this federal resource. Because of your good work and vision, Michigan City will continue to lead the way to draw new businesses, economic activity, and good-paying jobs to our region.” Michigan City Mayor Ron Meer stated, “I am excited that the Michigan City Board of Aviation Commissioners was able to secure this federally funded grant. Michigan City continues to see a tremendous amount of economic development and redevelopment ongoing in our community. We are fortunate to have a wonderful airport in our backyard and this grant will allow us the ability to make runway improvements, which are necessary upgrades to compete in this fast-paced, global economy.” For additional information on the FAA grant program, click here. ###
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the testimony of Congressman Pete Visclosky before the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform, as prepared for delivery. To view a recording of the Congressman’s testimony, click here. Chairman Womack and Chairwoman Lowey, thank you for the opportunity to submit my testimony. I appreciate the effort that you and the other Members of the Select Committee are undertaking. As you know, managing the budget and appropriations is one of Congress’s fundamental responsibilities as enumerated in the Constitution. President Franklin Roosevelt once stated that “it is the duty of the President to propose and it is the privilege of the Congress to dispose.” While I grew up in a neighborhood in which many homes had a portrait of FDR on their wall, I have to disagree with our 32nd President. I believe it is the privilege of the President to propose and the duty of the Congress to dispose. And our timeliness and quality in the disposition of that duty dictates how well our country will run. Specific to the House Appropriations Committee, I am proud of our traditional bipartisan approach to ensure funding is properly and reliably allocated and spent consistent with the will of the American people. Our oversight is vital in safeguarding the responsible management of our nation’s hard-earned taxpayer dollars. As the Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and a long-time member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Water, my colleagues have heard me go on for some length describing my concerns that Congress has become unable to enact appropriations bills anywhere close to the start of the fiscal year. However, I do not believe this means our budget and appropriations process is broken. Instead, it shows what happens when we avoid making decisions in a disciplined fashion as allowed under current House rules. We continue to defer action because some of my colleagues don’t want to make tough choices and others simply scorn those in the public service. Today, special procedures, budget gimmicks, and political theater are used to advance partisan goals instead of engaging in honest debate and difficult compromise. Further, we consume ourselves in temporarily putting aside misguided laws like the Budget Control Act (BCA). Multiple Congresses have somehow managed to alleviate the BCA caps for seven of its eight years, but those fixes only occurred after severe disruption. The penalties of not alleviating the caps, namely government shutdowns and sequestration, have proven to be ineffective in keeping our discipline and timeliness. Unless another BCA fix is crafted, we will see a major reduction in discretionary funding in fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Rather than permanently fix the terrible BCA, we have created a “new normal” of gridlock and disruptive temporary measures, like continuing resolutions (CRs), because we are so short-sighted and eager for political wins. I take this manufactured unpredictability very seriously. We know this is a major obstacle to the effective planning and execution of vital programs, not only for our federal agencies, but also for our state, private sector, and international partners. Some would point to the use of 2-year deals, like the multiple Bipartisan Budget Acts of the past half-decade, as proof that the annual budget and appropriations process should transition to a 2-year cycle. However, I would argue that moving to a biennial budget does not actually fix the root cause of our unpredictable funding timelines, but creates severe risks to good governance. As it has become Congress’s habit to only pass bipartisan legislation on the eve of a governmental crisis, our problems do not lessen if we are just going to drag our feet for two years instead of one. Agencies already tell us how hard it is to execute funds when they receive appropriations five months late. How much do we solve if we move to 2-year appropriations process wherein funding allocations are 13 months late? Creating a more drawn-out process will not guarantee Congress will stick to timelines, but would just give us more time to fill with more off-cycle requests. Take for example the FY 2018 Defense Appropriations bill, which the House voted on five times from July to March for political theater. While those scripted votes occurred, the Department of Defense (DoD) was forced to find ways to mitigate the effects of five CRs and a government shutdown. Though comparably painless to Congress, these events wreaked havoc on the DoD. Planned National Guard exercises, which affected over 102,000 servicemembers, had to be cancelled, forcing DoD and civilian employers to try to find ways to make up this training. There is nothing in the current rules that “make” this happen except an absence of a little intestinal fortitude. The FY 2018 Omnibus, enacted in March 2018, contained provisions to allow limited flexibility to DoD in expending funds that were severely impacted by the very late enactment. However, these fixes do not even come close to replacing the carefully crafted spending plans that involve servicemembers, their families, military equipment, and civilians which all contribute to our national security. To paraphrase my friends at the DoD, this is readiness that cannot be bought back. Again, some may argue that episodes like these could be avoided by providing funds up front for a longer appropriations horizon. However, this perspective forgets that our oversight responsibility must be timely and constant. By reducing the required interactions between Congress and the executive branch agencies, we sacrifice the most up-to-date and accurate information about how American taxpayer dollars are spent, making it even more difficult for us to assess whether we are spending money appropriately. By lessening this type of communication, we would effectively reduce the influence of Congress in the appropriations and oversight process. For example, this year has brought several executive branch trade enforcement changes, including tariffs on steel and aluminum. These actions have resulted in unexpected workloads for several agencies. Both the House and Senate Appropriations Committees have been in constant contact regarding resources that are needed to effectively manage these changes. Regardless of your position on the tariffs, we can all agree that effective management of policy changes is key to the daily functioning of our government. By adopting a biennial deal, Congress would willingly relinquish their management responsibilities specified under the Constitution. Further, willingly accepting less frequent information would increase errors in budgeting and deficit projections. Without timely information, a fear of underfunding would encourage many to give agencies more freedom and greater discretion over even larger pots of money. For those who still believe in Congress’s key role in oversight, our recourse should be to draft appropriations bills as we have historically done – with a seriousness of purpose and by maintaining the efficiency that a 1-year deal brings. We can solve the “Budget Problem” if we approach the appropriations process in a serious manner, if we finally come together to meaningfully address entitlements that now consume two-thirds of our budget, and recognize – as my home state has – that a reasonable amount of new revenue is necessary if we are to truly invest in the future of our nation. No rule prohibits this from happening today – only a lack of will. In closing, I would point out that in 2010, Congress fundamentally changed how it approached the budget. However, the intervening eight years have proven that rule changes do nothing absent a commitment to govern in a sober, deliberative, and well-intentioned fashion. I encourage this committee to consider the root causes of the problems we face in today’s budget and appropriations process. I agree that we must find a solution to have a timely and responsive process, but we should not do so at the expense of the responsibilities specified to us in the Constitution. Thank you. ###
06.26.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from the House floor consideration of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume and ask unanimous consent that my full remarks be entered into the record. I would like to start by expressing my tremendous appreciation for how Chairwoman Granger has conducted the business of the Defense Subcommittee. The Chairwoman’s abiding priority remains the safety, effectiveness, and efficiency of every man and woman in uniform. Additionally, she has taken a thoughtful and bipartisan approach to our work and is a fierce defender of the oversight responsibilities and constitutional prerogative of the Congress. I also would like to express my gratitude to Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other Members of the Subcommittee for their efforts. And this legislation would not happen without the incredibly skilled staff involved, including the clerks Jennifer Miller and Rebecca Leggieri, as well as Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, BG Wright, Allison Deters, Collin Lee, Matthew Bower, Jackie Ripke, Hayden Milberg, Bill Adkins, Sherry Young, Barry Walker, Jennifer Chartrand, and Chris Bigelow. In the personal offices, Johnnie Kaberle, Jonathan Fay, Joe DeVooght, and Christie Cunningham, have also provided invaluable assistance. I would be remiss if I did not use a portion of my time to recognize that this is likely the last time I am on the floor debating the Defense bill with my good friend, Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen. He is a consummate gentleman, decent to his core, a tireless advocate for the people he represents, and always working for the best interests of our nation and those wearing its uniform. He will be sorely missed and this body will be lesser without him. With regards to the matter before us, I would like to begin by calling attention to an issue of great importance to me – the full integration of women in the military. Female servicemembers are invaluable to the defense of our nation. For the majority of the time they have been allowed in the military, women have had to assimilate into a culture established by men, for men. This is not the best way to maximize the effectiveness of our armed services. While I appreciate the opening of combat career fields to women and the Department of Defense’s (DoD) emerging efforts to ensure that combat equipment is designed and fitted for female servicemembers, I would submit that these are immediate-term solutions. Put bluntly, the rate at which women leave the service is a detriment to readiness. Some of the reasons for their departures are glaringly obvious and will be difficult to overcome because they will require cultural and significant policy changes. I am pleased that the House Armed Services Committee, in their FY 2019 authorization bill, has taken a step to establish a female retention baseline and develop ways to improve female retention. Initiatives like these will help the Appropriations Committee to better focus funding where it can be most effective and improve overall readiness. Specific to H.R. 6157, the Chairwoman has provided an accurate summary, but there are a few areas I would like to highlight. This bill increases funding by almost $200 million above the budget request for several important environmental clean-up accounts. The Subcommittee, under Chairwoman Granger and previously under Chairman Frelinghuysen, has been proactive on emerging environmental issues, including those caused by firefighting chemicals. Those living on and near military facilities, and everyone throughout our country for that matter, should not have to worry about access to clean drinking water. Oversight of the management and expenditure of the $674 billion that is provided to the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community is a core function of the Defense Subcommittee. As such, this bill contains several cuts to accounts that have large unobligated balances or have under executed. The funds generated by those cuts have been reinvested in programs and initiatives that provide more benefit to the warfighter. Unlike the recently debated and much ballyhooed rescissions bill, these are actions of real substance that will benefit the taxpayer. Further, I believe good oversight is fostered by the constructive and informed dialogue between the Committee and the agencies. Oversight cannot be effective when proposals are presented at the last minute with the intention of forcing a decision. Oversight cannot be effective when complex changes to a program are first communicated to the Legislative Branch through the media. I have great respect for the Service Secretaries and Chiefs, but there needs to be an improvement in the timeliness and quality of communication. The Committee report to accompany this bill contains several sections encouraging the Department, as a whole, and with a special focus on the Army, to adhere to Congressional direction, increase transparency for budget exhibits, and improve the quality and timeliness of communication. And speaking of timeliness, Congress has its own issues to deal with. Particularly the inability to enact Appropriations bills anywhere close to the start of the fiscal year (FY). For the Department of Defense, and for any agency, the lack of predictable appropriations is a major obstacle to the planning and execution of programs. I am cautiously optimistic that the Bipartisan Budget Agreement, which provided relief from the Budget Control Act (BCA), will provide a pathway for completing the FY 2019 bills in a somewhat timely manner. The members of the Committee, particularly the Chair and Ranking Member, are doing their best to get our work done. Unfortunately, the next two fiscal years present daunting obstacles that make it even more important to complete our FY 2019 work as soon as possible. Most obvious is the return of the BCA caps in FY 2020, which if left unchanged, will require the Department’s base funding for FY 2020 to be reduced by $71 billion from the level provided in this bill. A reduction of that magnitude would cause unfathomable disruption. Inexplicably, multiple Congresses have managed to alleviate the BCA caps for seven of its eight years, but only after significant and protracted political theater. I know that senior leaders in the Pentagon are not taking chances and have begun to identify programs to cut in FY 2020 that will carry the least associated risk for the warfighter. I prefer to have those senior leaders focused on proactive matters, rather than running another BCA budget drill. The sooner Congress bellies up to the bar and provides a fifth round of statutory relief for the last two years of the BCA, the better. Additionally, senior military leaders have testified that arresting the erosion of our military’s competitive advantage requires real budget growth of at least three percent above inflation through 2023 and that increasing that competitive advantage would require even higher growth. I agree with the assessment that we need to make smart investments in our military, but I do not believe a growth rate of that magnitude is sustainable. Unless we act responsibly on the revenue side of the budget and address entitlements in a meaningful fashion, the money will not be there. And while we are on the floor today debating the funding bill for DoD, we also must consider that maintaining our competitive advantage in defense also requires other investments that we do not immediately equate with military matters. As only 29 percent of Americans aged 17-24 qualify for military service, investments in our youth, difficult-to-retain populations, education, and public health are equally important. Since fiscal year 2016, the annual funding level for the Department of Defense has risen by $100 billion. To put in context, that $100 billion increase is larger than the annual budget for the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and the Department of Transportation. It is greater than the combined annual budgets of the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Interior. To fully invest in the strength of our national security, we must also make necessary investments in our people and our communities. Finally, I remain concerned that while we have seen plenty of long-awaited, long-term planning and strategy documents generated by the Pentagon and the White House over the last 500 days, the bulk of our ongoing military operations continue to be authorized by legislation from 17 years ago. There have been four Presidential elections and eight Congressional elections since the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). I am disappointed that the Rules Committee did not make in order any amendments on the AUMF. It is a shame that this Congress cannot muster the will to even debate this incredibly important issue. I again thank the Chairwoman for her great effort and partnership. I look forward to the debate. Thank you Mr. Chairman and I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s House Appropriations Committee consideration of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. I have a tremendous appreciation for how Chairwoman Granger has conducted the business of the Defense Subcommittee. The Chairwoman’s abiding priority remains the safety, effectiveness, and efficiency of every man and woman in uniform. Additionally, she has taken a thoughtful and bipartisan approach to our work and is a fierce defender of the oversight responsibilities and constitutional prerogative of the Subcommittee. I also would like to express my gratitude to Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other Members of the Subcommittee for their efforts. And thank you to the Subcommittee staff and the associate staff for their hard work. I would like to begin by calling attention to an issue of great importance to me – the full integration of women in the military. Female servicemembers are invaluable to the defense of our nation. For the majority of the time they have been allowed in the military, women have had to assimilate into a culture not established with them in mind. This is not the best way to maximize the effectiveness of our armed services. While I appreciate the opening of combat career fields to women and the Department of Defense’s (DoD) emerging efforts to ensure that combat equipment is designed and fitted for female servicemembers, I would submit that these are immediate-term solutions. Put bluntly, the rate at which women leave the service is a detriment to readiness. Some of the reasons for their departures are glaringly obvious and will be difficult to overcome because they will require cultural and significant policy changes. I am pleased that the House Armed Services Committee, in their FY 2019 authorization bill, has taken a step to establish a female retention baseline and develop ways to improve female retention. Initiatives like these help the Committee to better focus funding where it can be most effective and improve overall readiness. Specific to our bill, the Chairwoman has provided an accurate summary, but there are a few areas I would like to highlight. This bill increases funding by almost $200 million above the budget request for several important environmental clean-up accounts. The Subcommittee, under Chairwoman Granger and previously under Chairman Frelinghuysen, has been proactive on emerging environmental issues, including those caused by firefighting chemicals. Those living on and near military facilities, and everyone throughout our country for that matter, should not have to worry about access to clean drinking water. Oversight of the management and expenditure of the $674 billion that is provided to the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community is a core function of the Defense Subcommittee. I believe good oversight is fostered by constructive and informed dialogue between the Committee and the agencies. Oversight cannot be effective when proposals are presented at the last minute with the intention of forcing a decision. Oversight cannot be effective when complex changes to a program are first communicated to the Legislative Branch through the media. As such, while I appreciate all the hard work that the services are putting towards readiness, modernization, and lethality, this report contains several sections encouraging the Department, as a whole, and with a special focus on the Army, to adhere to Congressional direction, increase transparency for budget exhibits, and improve quality and timeliness of communication. And speaking of timeliness, Congress has its own issues to deal with. Particularly the inability to enact Appropriations bills anywhere close to the start of the fiscal year (FY). For the Department of Defense, and for any agency, the lack of predictable appropriations is a major obstacle to the planning and execution of programs. I was cautiously optimistic that the Bipartisan Budget Agreement, which provided relief from the Budget Control Act (BCA), would provide a pathway for completing the FY 2019 bills in a somewhat timely manner. The members of the Committee, particularly the Chair and Ranking, are doing their best to get our work done. Unfortunately, the next two fiscal years present daunting obstacles that make it even more important to complete our FY 2019 work as soon as possible. Most obvious is the return of the BCA caps in FY 2020, which if left unchanged, will require the Department’s base funding for FY 2020 to be reduced by $71 billion from the level provided in this bill. A reduction of that magnitude would cause unfathomable disruption and I know that senior leaders in the Pentagon are already identifying programs that have a lower return on investment to cut in this scenario. I would prefer to have those individuals focused on other matters and the sooner Congress bellies up to the bar and provides a fifth round of statutory relief for the last two years of the BCA, the better. Additionally, senior military leaders have testified that arresting the erosion of our military’s competitive advantage requires real budget growth of at least three percent above inflation through 2023. Increasing that competitive advantage would require even higher growth. I agree with this sobering assessment, but unless we someday act responsibly on the revenue side of the budget and address entitlements in a meaningful fashion, the money will not be there. We also must consider that maintaining our competitive advantage in defense also requires other investments that we do not immediately equate with military matters. As only 29 percent of Americans aged 17-24 qualify for military service, investments in our youth, difficult-to-retain populations, education, and public health are equally important. Finally, I remain concerned that while we have seen plenty of long-awaited, long-term planning and strategy documents generated by the Pentagon and the White House over the last 500 days, the bulk of our ongoing military operations continue to be authorized by legislation from 17 years ago. There have been four Presidential elections and eight Congressional elections since the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). It is a shame that this Congress cannot muster the will to even debate an updated AUMF. I hope we will be successful this year. In closing, I am happy to be here marking up the ninth bill for fiscal year 2019. I again thank the Chairwoman for her great effort and partnership. I look forward to working with the Committee in completing the task ahead. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky’s Buy America Amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Interior Appropriations Act was approved by the House Appropriations Committee. Similar to actions taken in previous fiscal years, this amendment offered with Congressman Aderholt (R-AL) strikes provisions that would have weakened Buy America requirements for projects receiving funding through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. Specifically, the amendment removed provisions that would have potentially permitted certain imported slab and finished iron and steel products to meet Buy America requirements. Congressman Visclosky stated, “The steel industry is the economic foundation of the Northwest Indiana economy, and it is imperative that American taxpayer dollars are required to be spent in a way that directly supports American workers and the American steel and manufacturing industries. I appreciate the action taken today by the House Appropriations Committee to recognize the dignity of American workers, and I will continue to do my best to support the invaluable contributions of the American steel industry to our national economy and our national security.” The amendment was approved by voice vote. The FY 2019 Interior Appropriations Act, including the Buy America amendment, was approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The measure is currently awaiting consideration by the full House of Representatives. For additional information on the FY 2019 Interior Appropriations Act, click here. ###
05.23.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the statement from Congressman Pete Visclosky in response to the House Appropriations Committee approval of the Fiscal Year 2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The measure includes $2.6 billion for the Capital Investment Grant program under the Federal Transit Administration. This is $1.6 billion more than the level proposed in the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request. The measure also includes language that specifically directs the Federal Transit Administration to carry out the will of Congress and continue to advance eligible transit projects through the entire evaluation, rating, and approval process. “I am thankful that the House Appropriations Committee has taken action today to recognize the inherent value of the Capital Investment Grant program. By rejecting the President’s misguided request, we are demonstrating the strong Congressional intent to support transportation infrastructure investments that are essential to growing economies and drawing more individuals and businesses into our communities. I will continue to do everything possible to support the Capital Investment Grant program and our region’s applications to make transformational investments in the South Shore Rail Line.” ###
05.21.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky sent a letter to United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and called on his agency to take action on the proposed tariffs under the USTR’s Section 301 investigation of the illegal trading practices of China. The letter stated, “I am disturbed that the Administration has hesitated to implement these tariffs. For years, China has made promises to reduce their steel overcapacity and combat other unfair trade practices, and no such action has been taken. China does not play by our market-based rules, and the time for action is now.” The full letter is available below. Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: First, I would like to thank you and all of the staff associated with the Office of the United States Trade Representative for your diligent work to investigate trade practices around the world and promote fair international trade and investment. As Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I write to offer support for the proposed list of 25 percent tariffs on Chinese goods, covering approximately 1,300 products in various industries, including the steel industry. In relation to steel, China has continued to expand its steel capacity, bringing the global steel overcapacity to around 600 million metric tons. China has been dumping steel on the global market, creating a surge in global supply and driving down prices. American steel companies and their steelworkers have suffered as a result. We must do all we can to ensure China knows that we will enforce all of our trade laws. I am disturbed that the Administration has hesitated to implement these tariffs. For years, China has made promises to reduce their steel overcapacity and combat other unfair trade practices, and no such action has been taken. China does not play by our market-based rules, and the time for action is now. In the Section 301 investigation and subsequent report, it was determined that the Chinese government uses opaque and illicit mechanisms to intervene in U.S. companies’ operations in China and require the transfer of innovative technology. As you know, the Chinese government does not use market-based licensing agreements the same way as other U.S. trading partners and involves itself in industrial development plans, negating the benefits of fair global trade. Further, the report concluded that China conducts and supports unauthorized intrusions into computer networks of U.S. companies to access their confidential product information. Our trade laws are being violated, and the United States government has a responsibility to take action against violators. American workers, regardless of their industry or specialization, are the most innovative in the world and, if given a fair chance, can compete with anyone. They cannot do so if they must compete with the Chinese government and its unfair policies involving trade and investment. I would note that as a result of judicial processes at the International Trade Commission, 223 duty orders or tariffs have been placed on various imported steel products. China alone accounts for approximately one-fourth of these duty orders on foreign steel products. While other countries are investing and trading fairly, China is stealing innovation and tipping the scales of our global economic system in their favor. Your affirmative action is needed to begin to responsibly address the illegal activities of China. Thank you again for your serious work to investigate trade and investment practices around the world and for allowing me to voice my support for the proposed list of tariffs on Chinese products. I will continue to support actions, such as these proposed tariffs, that seek to level the playing field for domestic manufacturing companies and their workers, promote fair international trade and investment, and protect good-paying jobs. Section 301 PJV Official Letter to USTR.pdf ###
05.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky submitted testimony to the House Budget Committee on his budgetary priorities for Indiana’s First Congressional District for Fiscal Year 2019. Below is a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s testimony. I would like to thank Chairman Womack, Ranking Member Yarmuth, and all of the members of the House Budget Committee for holding today’s hearing and providing this invaluable opportunity for myself and all members to address the Committee about our legislative priorities for Fiscal Year 2019. My priority this year remains my resolute support for economic and transportation investments in the infrastructure of our country, including investments through the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Capital Investment Grant program. This essential program supports transit projects across our country, including the expansion and recapitalization of the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana. The Capital Investment Grant program is an integral component of creating economic growth in communities across our nation. I believe that people today, when considering where they want to live, work, or raise a family, are looking at public transportation options. When businesses are considering where they want to locate, and where they think vibrant new employees and markets exist, they are looking at public transportation options. When individuals and families are considering what they want to do this weekend, they are looking at events and attractions that have close proximity to public transportation options. The investment to improve and expand the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana is but one example of the vast benefits that this program provides to communities throughout our nation. We have made great strides in Northwest Indiana because of the bipartisan commitment from local officials, state officials, businesses, and non-profit organizations. And we cannot allow this progress to go for naught. I believe that through the Capital Investment Grant program we are creating a model in Northwest Indiana for how to maximize the potential of taxpayer dollars and make transformational investments that will grow regional economies. I want people to be able to look at Northwest Indiana and say this is how we garner bipartisan support from all levels of the community and the federal government. This is how we attract new people, new businesses, and new jobs through public transportation infrastructure investments, and this is how we improve the lives of all current residents in a community and for future generations. As you proceed with your work in Fiscal Year 2019, I encourage you to keep in mind the untold benefits and growing economic activity associated with a robust transportation infrastructure system and how we can create budget savings from a return on public transit investments. Thank you again for this opportunity to submit testimony. ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the statement from Congressman Pete Visclosky on the passing of Portage City Councilman Ed Gottschling. I will remember Ed as a good friend and one of the kindest individuals I have ever met. He will remain the epitome of what all sincere public servants should strive to be. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time. ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the statement from Congressman Pete Visclosky on the Administration’s decision to abandon the Iran agreement. By needlessly discarding multilateral diplomacy, the Administration’s decision today makes the world a more dangerous place. The United States is right to confront Iran’s destabilizing behavior in the Middle East, but no regional challenge becomes easier to solve by abandoning the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), a verifiable and enforceable agreement designed by the United States and our allies to curtail Iran’s nuclear weapons program. The Administration has not offered evidence that Iran has failed to uphold its part of the bargain, and there is consensus among our allies in the agreement and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that the deal is working. It is deeply regrettable that today’s decision will damage our country’s credibility as a negotiator, our relationships with critical allies and partners, and our ability to lead future efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and materials around the world. ###
05.07.2018	Washington, DC – Below are the details for Congressman Pete Visclosky’s 2018 Military Academy Night. When: 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. - Monday - May 14, 2018 Where: Indiana University Northwest Anderson Library Conference Center Room LC105 3400 Broadway Gary, Indiana 46408 Who: Applicants who are from the First Congressional District and interested in military service or attending a U.S. military academy. What: Students will learn about the educational opportunities and the application process for the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Members of the Congressman’s Academy Nomination Board, as well representatives from the ROTC programs from the University of Illinois, the University of Notre Dame, and Illinois Institute of Technology, will also be on hand to answer questions and meet prospective applicants. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I am pleased to host this informative gathering for all students who are interested in pursuing these opportunities to obtain an outstanding education and serve our nation.” For additional information and to access the online application, please click here. ###
04.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee in support of the Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grant program. Below is a copy of his remarks, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Diaz-Balart, Ranking Member Price, and all of the members of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee for holding today’s hearing and providing this opportunity for myself and all members to speak about priorities for your Subcommittee in Fiscal Year 2019. My priority for your Subcommittee in Fiscal Year 2019 remains my resolute support for the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Capital Investment Grant program. This essential program supports transit projects across our country, including the expansion and recapitalization of the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana. Your Subcommittee demonstrated its steadfast support for this program in Fiscal Year 2018, and I am grateful for your action. As you are well aware, the budget request last year, in Fiscal Year 2018, represented a cut of about $800 billion and a request to not fund projects without full-funding grant agreements. I thank you for your determination to push back against this proposal and end up with a Fiscal Year 2018 funding level of $2.6 billion and with language that protects funding for projects in the pipeline. Because of your good work, communities across our nation can continue to plan and move forward with the FTA for projects that are in the early phases of development. Unfortunately, as we approach Fiscal Year 2019 legislation, we face the same scenario as we did a year ago. The budget request for Fiscal Year 2019 continues a misguided approach of a significant decrease in the funding request for the Capital Investment Grant program, as well as language again that would eliminate funding for projects without a full-funding grant agreement. Specifically, the Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposal requests $1 billion for the Capital Investment Grant program, which is $1.6 billion less than the enacted Fiscal Year 2018 funding level. Chairman Diaz-Balart, Ranking Member Price, and members of the Subcommittee, I respectfully ask that you again flatly reject the inadequate funding level and inappropriate language restriction proposed in the Fiscal Year 2019 budget request. The Capital Investment Grant program is an integral component of creating economic growth in communities across our nation. I believe that people today, when considering where they want to live, work, or raise a family, are looking at public transportation options. When businesses are considering where they want to locate, and where they think vibrant new employees and markets exist, they are looking at public transportation options. When individuals and families are considering what they want to do this weekend, they are looking at events and attractions that have close proximity to public transportation options. The investment to improve and expand the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana is but one example of the vast benefits that this program provides to communities throughout our nation. We have made great strides in Northwest Indiana because of the bipartisan commitment from local officials, state officials, businesses, and non-profit organizations. And we cannot allow this progress to go for naught. I believe that through the Capital Investment Grant program we are creating a model in Northwest Indiana for how to maximize the potential of taxpayer dollars and make transformational investments that will grow regional economies. I want people to be able to look at Northwest Indiana and say this is how we garner bipartisan support from all levels of the community and the federal government, and this is how we create a return on public transit investments. This is how we attract new people, new businesses, and new jobs through public transportation infrastructure investments, and this is how we improve the lives of all current residents in a community and for future generations. This type of transformation does not happen without Congressional support. Therefore, I again thank this Subcommittee for your leadership, for your demonstrated value for the Capital Investment Grant program, and again ask for your continued robust support for this critical program in Fiscal Year 2019. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement on the South Shore Rail Line and the House passage of the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations legislation. I am pleased that Congress has recognized the inherent value of the Capital Investment Grant program by increasing funding for this program by $1.4 billion over the President’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. Congress also included critical language directing the Secretary of Transportation to move projects through the program from initial application to construction. I thank Sen. Donnelly, Sen. Young, Rep. Walorski, and all of my colleagues and our state and local officials for their dedicated work to support this program and build momentum for future federal investments in the South Shore Rail Line. ###
03.21.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement, as prepared for delivery, of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, delivered during today’s hearing on the State of the Steel Industry. I want to thank Co-Chairmen Bost and Crawford for their leadership in convening today’s hearing on the state of the steel industry. I also want to extend my appreciation to all of today’s representatives from steel companies, associations, and the United Steelworkers, for taking time out of your busy schedules to participate. First, I want to emphasize that the expected placement of the Section 232 steel tariffs this week is happening because of the tireless work of our steelworkers and our steel companies who have brought repeated attention to the real threat that exists from unfair trading practices around the world. Over the past decades, through an unwavering determination to fight unfair dumping and the subsidizing of steel brought into the United States, the USW, steel companies, and steel associations have compiled massive amounts of evidence before the International Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, showing that our domestic industry is injured by illegal steel imports. They have continued to bring light to the national security threat that faces our country should illegal steel imports continue to undermine our domestic ability to make the best steel in the world. I have no doubt that it is because of your dedicated efforts and vigilance that the Section 232 investigation has occurred and been favorably determined. On a legal and level playing field, American steelworkers can compete with anyone in the world, and the U.S. government has a responsibility to ensure that a legal and level playing field is maintained every day. As we move forward, I will continue to closely follow how the steel tariffs are being implemented, including any developments as it relates to the timeframe or duration of the tariffs, and exemptions or modifications for countries or products. I believe that these tariffs are just one front in our efforts to address the global excess steel capacity, which currently stands around 700 million metric tons. In order to continue to investigate the trading practices of countries that do no play by our market-based rules, the International Trade Commission (ITC) and International Trade Administration (ITA) under the Department of Commerce need appropriate funding. I regret that the President cut funding for the ITC by $5 million and the ITA by $40 million in his FY 2018 budget request, and again cut funding for the ITC by $4.4 million and the ITA by $50 million in his FY 2019 budget request. We cannot investigate and enforce our trade laws if these federal agencies do not have the resources they need to do their jobs. I would also note that the President removed several Buy America provisions in his FY 2018 and FY 2019 budget requests for the Department of Defense. These Buy America provisions ensure that taxpayer dollars are used to support military products that use iron and steel, and are manufactured from start to finish by American workers. Such products include Navy oiler ships, anchor and mooring chains, armor steel plate, and ball and roller bearings. Without American steel, the Department of Defense would be forced to rely on foreign imports, which would be unacceptable during a national emergency or military conflict. As we move forward in the appropriations process, I will continue to press for appropriate funding for the ITC and the ITA, and I will continue to fight for the inclusion of strong Buy America requirements. Our steel producers and steelworkers are innovative, efficient, and environmentally responsible, and they must be able to fairly compete in our global economy. You have my assurance that as the 115th Congress proceeds, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the Congressional Steel Caucus to press for the effective implementation of these new steel tariffs and the strong enforcement of all of our trade laws in order to ensure that American steel companies and steelworkers are able to compete on a level playing field. I thank you all again for participating in today’s hearing, and I look forward to our discussion. ###
03.16.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has selected the Hanover Community School Corporation and the Tri-Creek School Corporation to receive awards to clean up their school buses. Specifically, the school corporations will receive rebates through the EPA’s Clean Diesel Rebate program. This program awards rebates up to $20,000 for school corporations to replace buses with engine models from years from 2006 or older. According to the EPA, older diesel school bus engines emit large amounts of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which are linked to instances of aggravated asthma, lung damage, and other serious health problems. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate the Hanover and the Tri-Creek School Corporations for successfully seeking out and obtaining this opportunity for federal assistance. Because of your good work, the health of our students and our people, and the quality of our environment, will be tangibly improved.” Hanover Community School Corporation Superintendent Mr. Tom Taylor stated, “This grant was an opportunity for our corporation to help improve the health and safety of our students and community. The rebate we will receive will also greatly help offset the cost of the purchase of a new bus. We not only saw this as a positive financial opportunity, but a responsibility for the corporation to help improve the quality of our environment. We would like to thank the office of Congressman Visclosky for their support in this endeavor.” Tri-Creek School Corporation Superintendent Dr. Debra Howe, PhD, stated, “Tri-Creek School Corporation’s energy committee has invested time researching avenues to positively impact education, the environment, and economics. We are pleased to be part of the EPA’s Clean Diesel Rebate program. We will be replacing our buses and contributing to the health of our students and community.” For additional information on the EPA Clean Diesel Rebate program, click here. ###
03.05.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the details of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for high school students from Indiana’s First Congressional District. Each year, the Congressional Institute and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor the Congressional Art Competition as an opportunity to promote the artistic talent in each Congressional District. Congressman Visclosky stated, “I believe the Congressional Art Competition is an outstanding program that recognizes and celebrates the artistic talents of high school students in Northwest Indiana and across our country. I am always heartened by the thoughtful and creative artwork from our youth and the positive impact it has in our communities and our region. I look forward to seeing this year’s artwork and encourage all interested students to participate in this year’s competition.” Please note there is no required theme for the submission; however, themes from Northwest Indiana, United States history, government, and culture are encouraged. The grand prize winner will have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, and will receive two (2) complimentary round-trip tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a ceremony unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Please note that all additional travel arrangements and expenses will be the responsibility of the winner. All artwork submissions and application forms must be brought to the District office, located at 7895 Broadway, Suite A in Merrillville, no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 30, 2018. Artwork will be accepted during the District office’s normal hours of operation: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Complete information about the Congressional Art Competition, including guidelines and application forms, is available on Congressman Visclosky’s website at: https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/congressional-art-competition. If applicants have any additional questions or concerns, please contact the Merrillville office at 219-795-1844. ###
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – The leaders of the Congressional Steel Caucus have sent a letter to President Trump that requested an outlook on his action to support and protect the American steel industry in response to the Section 232 investigation by the U.S. Department of Commerce on the impact of foreign steel imports on U.S national security. Specifically, Congressional Steel Caucus Co-Chairman Rick Crawford (R-AR), Co-Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL), and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), sent a letter to President Trump that requested a briefing on the Section 232 investigation report and asked for an outlook on the potential timeframe for action. According to the Department of Commerce, under current law, the President has until April 11, 2018, to decide on any potential action based on the findings of the investigation. The letter stated that a strong a viable domestic steel industry is essential to America’s national security and that the American steel industry is threatened by repeated surges in steel imports driven by global over-capacity and other foreign trade-distorting subsidies, policies, and practices. Co-Chairman Crawford stated, “When other countries break the trade agreements we’ve adopted, their actions undermine American businesses and the jobs those businesses support. Given the President’s commitment to rural communities and putting American interests first, I’m hopeful that he will take action that allows our nation’s steel industry to compete fairly.” “American steel jobs are at risk due to global competitors who refuse to play by the rules,” said Co-Chairman Bost. “That’s why it’s vitally important for President Trump to take action to ensure U.S. companies and workers have the ability to compete on an even playing field. I have no doubt in my mind that the American steelworker is second to none when competing on equal footing.” Vice-Chairman Visclosky stated, “American steelworkers are an essential contributor to the strength and viability of our national security and our national economy. I encourage President Trump to act with the utmost urgency and send a resounding message that the foundational equipment and strength of the American military must be built with American-made steel.” The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump: As Chairs of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we are writing regarding the recently delivered Section 232 investigation to address the national security implications of the continued surge of foreign steel imports into the United States and to seek a briefing on the report and the Administration’s potential timeline for action on its recommendations. Your attention to this matter is appreciated. As you know, the domestic steel industry has been battered by a flood of imports, many of which are unfairly traded or are produced by subsidized state-owned enterprises in non-market economies, such as China, in quantities well in excess of global demand. These unfairly traded imports and the negative price effects of the excess global capacity of steel have led to the idling of a great deal of United States steel production and the direct and indirect loss of thousands of American jobs and economically harmed communities. A strong and viable domestic steel industry is essential to America’s national security. In applications ranging from aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines to Patriot and Stinger missiles and armor plate for tanks to field artillery pieces, virtually every military platform is dependent on U.S.-produced steel. In addition, our nation’s critical infrastructure, including our bridges, roadways, waterways, rail, energy infrastructure, electric grid, and drilling equipment for energy production, relies on domestically-produced steel. The continued production of this steel has come under threat in recent years, in large part due to repeated surges in steel imports driven by the global over-capacity and other foreign trade-distorting subsidies, policies, and practices. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) estimated that last year global excess capacity totaled nearly 700 million metric tons, leading the OECD to say in a written statement that “excess capacity remains at alarmingly high levels.” This over-capacity has resulted in the loss of jobs for thousands of hard-working Americans in the domestic steel sector. We are gravely concerned due to the impact of this ongoing crisis and remain hopeful that you will take meaningful action. In closing, we once again want to express our appreciation for your concerns about the economic welfare of the men and women of the United States steel industry and their contributions to our national security. We look forward to hearing from your administration on the Section 232 investigation. Sincerely, Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) 2-1-2018 Steel Caucus Leadership LTR to POTUS Section 232.pdf
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Ranking Democrat on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered during the House consideration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. I yield myself such time as I may consume and ask unanimous consent that my full remarks be entered into the record. Mr. Speaker, this is the third iteration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Act that has been brought to the floor. I, for one, have nothing more to say about the merits of this legislation that would not be redundant. However, I do want to reiterate my profound respect for the exceptional work that has been put into this legislation by Chairwoman Granger, all the members of our subcommittee, and our superlative staff. Today, January 30, 2018, Congress is 122 days late. We are 122 days past the start of the current Fiscal Year. 122 days past the time that the legislation we are considering today should have been completed, conferenced, and signed into law. We have a number problem Mr. Speaker. As an appropriator, we need a number to craft a bill that, by law, does not violate the Budget Control Act. As an appropriator, we need a number so that Chairwoman Granger, our subcommittee members, and I can make decisions on how best to move forward so our military leaders are not hindered and forced to comply with the constraints of continuing resolutions. As an appropriator, all I want is a number. Give us a number, and we will finish our work for this fiscal year and give the certainty that is repeatedly being asked for by the Department of Defense and our intelligence agencies. Unfortunately, operating under a fourth continuing resolution and passing essentially the same defense appropriations measure for a third time does nothing to solve our number problem. Nor does it remedy the slight inconvenience that this bill, which includes approximately $584 billion in base funding, violates the Budget Control Act – the current law of this country – by about $35 billion. Today’s legislation recognizes this “inconvenience” by obviating sequestration. I guess that’s what passes as “budget control” these days, after the net loss of $1.1 trillion in revenue from the recent tax legislation. Some may say, we must pass this bill today to support our women and men in uniform. I would respond by saying that today’s sixty minutes of theater continues to avoid meaningfully addressing the needs of our troops. If we were serious about supporting our troops, we would have solved our number problem and negotiated a realistic budget figure last summer, so our committee could have completed this bill last September. That would have helped our troops. I would also add, if we don’t agree to an overall domestic discretionary number, we will continue to disinvest in the true security of this nation – our people. We need a domestic number so we can make decisions and give direction to all federal agencies so they can plan on how to best invest in our national economy, jobs, and the health and prosperity of our people. The International Trade Commission needs direction so that they can fully enforce our trade laws. Customs and Border Protection needs direction. Every agency of this government needs timely decisions and certainty. According to the Department of Defense, 71 percent of the 17 to 24 year olds in the United States would fail to qualify for military enlistment because of physical or mental health issues, low educational scores, or major criminal convictions. General Joseph Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has testified that, “The strength of the United States military is a direct reflection of the strength of U.S. society.” Improving the strength of our country is not just a robust defense number. We need a robust domestic number that allows for the critical investments necessary for the success of our economy and the people of our country. In conclusion, as an appropriator, I can tell you that our number problem is a solvable problem. Give us negotiated budget numbers so we can stop wasting everyone’s time and the money of American taxpayers. Then we can truly start supporting the strength of our national security and our national economy. ###
01.19.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in response to the current inability of Congress to approve federal funding legislation and the pending government shutdown. Congress has a primary job of approving funding legislation in order to grow our economy and ensure the health and safety of all citizens. I opposed the most recent continuing resolution legislation because we are already 111 days late and we cannot postpone the critical decisions that need to be made any longer. It would postpone critical decisions on federal funding for the fourth time in less than 16 weeks. How can states, communities, federal agencies and those they hire plan investments to grow our economy and jobs if they do not know with certainty what their annual budget will be. It is infuriating that we are abdicating our most basic responsibility. Enough is enough. It is past time we start working together to solve problems and build our economy. ###
01.03.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the following 2018 schedule for Town Forums that will be held throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. Friday – January 12, 2018 10:00 a.m. East Chicago City Hall – Council Chambers 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, Indiana 46312 12:00 p.m. Purdue University Northwest – Student Union Library Building – Room with a View 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323 2:00 p.m. Dyer-Schererville Library 1001 West Lincoln Highway Schererville, Indiana 46375 4:00 p.m. Crown Point Civic Center 101 South East Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 6:00 p.m. Hobart City Hall 414 Main Street Hobart, Indiana 46342 Saturday – January 13, 2018 12:00 p.m. Woodland Park 2100 Willowcreek Road Portage, Indiana 46368 2:00 p.m. Valparaiso Public Library 103 Jefferson Street Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 4:00 p.m. Chesterton Town Hall 726 Broadway Chesterton, Indiana 46304 6:00 p.m. Michigan City – City Hall – Council Chambers 100 East Michigan Boulevard Michigan City, Indiana 46360 Sunday – January 14, 2018 2:00 p.m. Wicker Park Social Center 2215 Ridge Road Highland, Indiana 46322 4:00 p.m. City of Gary – Public Safety Facility 555 Polk Street Gary, Indiana 46402 Please note that all times listed are Central Standard Time. ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in response to the House passage of the Republican tax bill. I opposed the Republican tax bill today because it is nothing more than a $1.5 trillion tax cut paid for by working class individuals and families. This is a bad bill for our health care system because the elimination of the incentive for individuals to obtain health insurance will create further chaos in the insurance market, increase premiums, the number of uninsured citizens, and harm the effectiveness of hospitals and doctors. True tax reform should provide greater equity among all taxpayers, encourage productive economic investments, and not increase our national deficit. The Republican tax bill meets none of those requirements and instead creates additional financial burdens, uncertainty, and instability in the lives of working Americans. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified at the International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on carbon and certain alloy steel wire rod from Belarus, Italy, Korea, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom. Below is a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Schmidtlein, Vice Chairman Johanson, members of the Commission, and all of the staff, for your continued work to enforce American trade laws. I appreciate this opportunity to testify as part of today’s hearing regarding carbon and certain alloy steel wire rod from several countries. The American steel industry plays an integral part in each of our daily lives. The industry employs 140,000 people and directly supports a million U.S. jobs, and American steelworkers produce steel that is used to build our nation and strengthen our national defense. The steel product we are discussing today, wire rod, is particularly diverse in its range of uses and is essential to a number of industries we rely on each day, such as the construction, energy, agriculture, and automotive industries. Unfortunately, it is also one of many steel products that countries throughout the world have consistently traded unfairly. The Commission and the Department of Commerce have been working hard to address the issue of unfair imports by investigating a large number of steel-related cases over the past few years. This is the third time I have testified at the ITC this year, and the eleventh time I have testified in the past two years. However, we must not waiver in our efforts, and we must continue to apply pressure on countries that blatantly violate our laws and threaten domestic markets. The American Iron and Steel Institute recently reported that for the first ten months of 2017, steel imports are up 20 percent from the same time period in 2016. This highlights that now more than ever, we must remain vigilant in ensuring that bad actors who disregard American trade laws face consequences for their actions. I appreciate the work that all of you and the Department of Commerce have already done in this case. In their preliminary determination, the Department proposed countervailing duty rates of up to 44 percent for certain countries involved in this case, and antidumping duties of up to a staggering 756 percent. The Department also indicated that critical circumstances exist with respect to dumping from Russia and imposed retroactive duties on those imports. These are important first steps to provide relief to the domestic industry that has been harmed by the countries involved. Wire rod is a critical product used in our daily lives, from the cars we drive, to the buildings we work in, to the farms that produce the food we rely on. We must ensure that law-abiding domestic producers who are making this vital product are not undermined by countries that continually and egregiously disregard our trade laws. That is why I strongly urge an affirmative determination. I again thank you for your serious and thorough consideration of this case and I sincerely appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony today. ###
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Co-Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL), Co-Chairman Rick Crawford (R-AR), and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), sent a letter to President Trump that urged him to defend the American steel industry and its workers during his visit to China. Specifically, the letter urges the President to address the issues of chronic global steel overcapacity, illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises, and other trade distorting practices that have injured the American steel sector. The letter states that American steelworkers are constantly threatened by the unfair trade practices of China and that we cannot compete against China when they do not follow trading norms. The letter further asks that the President raise these issues with Chinese government officials and defend the American steel industry, which is essential to our country’s national economy and our national security. The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump: We write today as leaders of the Congressional Steel Caucus to request that you defend the American steel industry and its workers during your upcoming visit to China and address the issues of chronic global steel overcapacity, illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises, and other trade distorting practices that have injured the American steel sector. These issues pose an existential threat to the American steel industry. American steelworkers are constantly threatened by the unfair trade practices of China. Today, China produces more steel than every other country in the world combined and contributes over half of the 700 million metric tons of global steel overcapacity. We know that America makes the most innovative and cost effective steel in the world, but we cannot compete against China when they do not follow trading norms. For years, China has stated that it will work to address the issue of steel overcapacity by imposing capacity reductions, however those words continue to ring hollow. Over the past two years, through the G-20 Global Steel Forum and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Steel Committee, global negotiators have worked to remedy the overcapacity crisis. However, despite the good efforts of these government negotiators there has not been meaningful reform. Instead, steelworkers and their families struggle each day to fight back imports which are eroding the industry and their lives. The rapid growth of the Chinese steel overcapacity is directly tied to the proliferation of illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises. It is estimated that 95 percent of steel produced by the top 20 Chinese steel groups comes from state-owned enterprises. Further, China has consistently sold products at less than fair market value to offload their overcapacity to other countries. The Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) have consistently taken corrective actions by imposing steep antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duties, sometimes in excess of 200 percent, on Chinese steel products that were found to be traded unfairly. Unfortunately, often times when these companies and their workers receive relief from the AD/CVD orders, the damage has already been done. China must do more to address these issues and ensure that their steel producers are operating by fair market principles. In your discussions during your visit with Chinese government officials, we respectfully ask that you not only raise these issues but defend the American steel industry, which is essential to our country’s national economy and our national security. Sincerely, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) SC.FINAL_.pdf ###
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Congressman Visclosky’s legislation to designate the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore as a National Park. The House approved the legislation, H.R. 1488, the Indiana Dunes National Park Act, by unanimous consent. The measure is now awaiting consideration by the U.S. Senate. During House consideration, Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “The American taxpayers over a number of generations have invested in the preservation of the Indiana Dunes. It is incumbent that we do everything possible to encourage citizens and travelers from around the world to visit the park to learn, recreate, and simply enjoy the sublime environment of the Northwest Indiana lakeshore. H.R. 1488 helps to achieve this goal.” Below are Congressman Visclosky’s full remarks, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva of the Committee on Natural Resources for their work on this legislation, as well as Chairman McClintock and Ranking Member Hanabusa of the Subcommittee on Federal Lands. Mr. Speaker, the legislation we are considering today would retitle the “Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore” as the “Indiana Dunes National Park”. While this is a small change, it would have an enormous benefit of rightly placing the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore where it belongs as the nation’s 60th National Park and the first National Park in the State of Indiana. Located along the southern shore of Lake Michigan, the Indiana Dunes are a natural wonder and home to a vast array of rare plants and animals. According to the National Park Service, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is the seventh most biologically diverse National Park Service unit. This legislation completes an effort that began over 100 years ago when Stephen Mather, the first Director of the National Park Service, first proposed establishing the southern shore of Lake Michigan as “Sand Dunes National Park”. I believe Mr. Mather said it best when he stated in his 1917 report to Congress, “The sand dunes are admittedly wonderful…No national park or other Federal reservation offers this phenomenon for the pleasure and edification of the people, and no national park is as accessible. Furthermore, the dunes offer the visitor extraordinary scenery, a large variety of plant life, magnificent beaches, and splendid opportunities to camp in the wild country close to nature.” Unfortunately, Mr. Mather’s effort to establish Sand Dunes National Park was abandoned with the onset of the First World War. Then, in 1966, thanks to the efforts of concerned citizens, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore was established on the Lake Michigan shoreline. Since that time, the park has been expanded by Congress on four different occasions. These expansions nearly doubled its original size so that the Lakeshore currently encompasses roughly 15,000 acres of wetlands and marshes, beaches, oak savannahs, and sand dunes. It is clear that the title of “Indiana Dunes National Park” is fitting for such a unique and beautiful natural resource. The American taxpayers over a number of generations have invested in the preservation of the Indiana Dunes. It is incumbent that we do everything possible to encourage citizens and travelers from around the world to visit the park to learn, recreate, and simply enjoy the sublime environment of the Northwest Indiana lakeshore. H.R. 1488 helps to achieve this goal. Mr. Speaker, I am proud that the Indiana Dunes National Park Act has the full, bipartisan support of the entire Indiana delegation, and I thank my Indiana Senate colleagues, Senator Joe Donnelly and Senator Todd Young, for introducing the companion measure in the Senate. I urge my colleagues to support passage and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
10.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Co-Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL), Co-Chairman Rick Crawford (R-AR), and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), along with 65 other members of the Caucus, sent a letter to the President expressing support for the Section 232 investigation assessing the impact of steel imports on our national security. Specifically, the letter states that the investigation must be completed as soon as possible because each day that passes is another day that the domestic steel industry faces an onslaught of imports and the deeply harmful effects of unfair trade practices. The letter strongly urges the administration to release the report as expeditiously as possible so that action can be taken to protect the American steel industry and defend America’s national security. Complete list of cosigners and full text of the letter is available below. Dear Mr. President: We write as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to reiterate our support for the Section 232 investigation assessing the impact of steel imports on our national security. We are grateful that you have undertaken this critically important investigation since it is imperative that our nation’s military, energy, and other critical infrastructure continue to be built with American steel. We appreciate your dedication to the well-being of the domestic steel industry, and encourage the Section 232 report to be released as expeditiously as possible. American steel is used in aircraft carriers, armored vehicles, submarines, refineries, power plants, highways, bridges, dams, reservoirs, and hospitals. It is responsible for protecting our brave service members every single day and allows our military to respond to outside threats. Without American steel, the Department of Defense would be forced to rely on foreign imports, which could become extremely dangerous during a national emergency or military conflict. Therefore, a robust domestic steel industry is absolutely critical to our national security. As you highlighted when you initiated this investigation, and as the Steel Caucus well knows, the domestic industry has suffered greatly at the hands of global steel overcapacity and unfair trade. Yet, our conventional trade laws, while offering some relief, have failed to keep up with these illicit, and indeed destructive, practices. There are currently more than 700 million metric tons of global steel overcapacity, which amounts to more than eight times the output of all American steel producers. Furthermore, this year, steel imports have been up 21 percent over the same period in 2016, and in September alone, the U.S. imported over 3 million tons of steel. This continued crisis has caused layoffs and mill idling throughout the country, including in many of the communities we represent. Action must be taken to stop this unfair trade so that American steelworkers can continue to make American steel that supports our military, critical infrastructure, and the livelihoods of innumerable American families. Each day that passes is another day that the domestic steel industry faces an onslaught of imports and the deeply harmful effects of unfair trade practices, which is why we believe the investigation must be completed as soon as possible. We strongly urge your administration to release the report as expeditiously as possible so that action can be taken to protect the American steel industry and defend our national security. We thank you for your leadership in addressing the threats faced by the American steel industry, and we stand ready to continue to support this investigation and preserve the fundamental and strategic importance of our domestic steel industry to America’s national security. Sincerely, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) Rep. Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL) Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH) Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) Rep. Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) Rep. André Carson (D-IN) Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA) Rep. James E. Clyburn (D-SC) Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) Rep. Warren Davidson (R-OH) Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-IL) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA) Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. John Katko (R-NY) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL) Rep. Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI) Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Richard M. Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) Rep. Keith J. Rothfus (R-PA) Rep. John Rutherford (R-FL) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) Rep. Terri A. Sewell (D-AL) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY) Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) 10.26.17 SC Trump 232 Investigation Final.pdf ###
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky and the City of Gary announced today that the Economic Development Administration (EDA) under the U.S. Department of Commerce has awarded a grant to the City of Gary to support the development of a National Civil Rights Hall of Fame facility. Specifically, the $59,500 grant will support the development of a feasibility study and business plan to establish a National Civil Rights Hall of Fame facility and headquarters for the National Civil Rights Institute and Hall of Fame, Inc., in the City of Gary. The study will aim to bring together the public and private sectors in the community in order to support and strengthen the regional economy. Last year, Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson sponsored a resolution that supported the National Civil Rights Hall of Fame Board in their quest to receive this EDA grant. The Gary Common Council unanimously approved the resolution and this allowed the City to contribute the matching dollar requirement. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I commend Mayor Freeman-Wilson and the City of Gary for successfully securing this federal grant. As we near the 50th Anniversary of the election of Richard Hatcher as Mayor of Gary, who, along with Mayor Carl Stokes of Cleveland, has the honor of being one of our country’s first African-American mayors of a city with more than 100,000 people, I deeply appreciate the City’s unrelenting initiative to establish this historical and significant facility. It will undoubtedly build upon the foundational economic attractions of Gary and draw additional visitors and businesses to our region.” City of Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson stated, “I am excited about the opportunity to add the City’s voice to planning the National Civil Rights Hall of Fame. It is just the right fit for Gary and a fitting tribute to Mayor Hatcher’s legacy. Over the past five years, we have had numerous discussions about the project and have continued to work with Board members through our Department of Commerce. Receiving this grant is huge. I congratulate Mayor Hatcher and the Board, the Gary team, and I thank Congressman Pete Visclosky for his continued support.” National Civil Rights Institute and Hall of Fame Board Member Lamar Taylor stated, “The President and Founder, Richard G. Hatcher, Board members, and the executive committee appreciate and thank Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson, Congressman Pete Visclosky, and the Economic Development Administration for their efforts in getting this feasibility study grant approved. We are hopeful that this grant will allow us to continue to move forward and build the National Civil Rights Hall of Fame.” For additional information on the EDA, click here. ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources approved Congressman Pete Visclosky’s legislation to designate the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore as a National Park. The Committee approved the legislation, H.R. 1488, the Indiana Dunes National Park Act, by unanimous consent. The measure is now referred to the full House and is expected to be considered in the coming months. Specifically, H.R. 1488 would retitle the “Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore” as the “Indiana Dunes National Park”. The designation would create the first National Park in Indiana and the 60th National Park in the United States. The initial effort to name this area as a National Park began in 1916 under the first Director of the National Park Service, Mr. Stephen Mather. The National Park designation would provide greater recognition of this august Northwest Indiana attraction with the intent of drawing more visitors to the region and stimulating the local economy. Additionally, a bipartisan companion measure has been introduced in the Senate by Sen. Joe Donnelly. This measure is cosponsored by Sen. Todd Young and is currently pending consideration in the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I thank Chairman Rob Bishop, Ranking Member Raul Grijalva, and all the members of the Natural Resources Committee, for their leadership to bring forward and advance this legislation. I hope that the full House considers this important legislation as soon as possible so that we can quickly begin to harness this national recognition of the Indiana Dunes and attract new visitors and economic activity to our region.” Senator Joe Donnelly stated, “The Indiana Dunes is one of the most beautiful natural resources in our state and our region, and I am hopeful the full House of Representatives will quickly pass this legislation now that it has advanced from the Committee. Designating the Dunes as a National Park would give the area the recognition it deserves, attract more visitors, and further stimulate the region’s economy.” Senator Todd Young stated, “I appreciate Rep. Visclosky and his House colleagues for acting on this bill. Many Hoosier families have fond memories of times spent together at the Indiana Dunes. Changing its designation to a National Park will give families who live outside our great state the opportunity to know about, and enjoy, one of Indiana’s most beautiful places.” Congresswoman Jackie Walorski stated, “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a treasured source of natural beauty and outdoor recreation for not just Hoosier families but all Americans. Making it the first National Park in Indiana will strengthen our state’s economy by drawing more tourists from around the country and boosting the outdoor recreation industry that is so vital to our region. I look forward to voting for this bipartisan bill on the House floor.” ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in response to the filing of the request by the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) to the Federal Transportation Administration for funding for the South Shore Rail Line Double Track and West Lake extension projects. Today’s action by NICTD is an essential step in the process of transforming the Northwest Indiana economy and creating new job opportunities in our region. I thank NICTD President Mike Noland, all of the board members, and their staff for their dedication to realize this cornerstone of development for our economy. It will build upon our industrial base and create new jobs by enhancing our quality of place and attracting businesses to remain, start, relocate, and expand in our region. We would not be where we are today without the steadfast support of NICTD, the RDA, Governor Holcomb, my colleagues in the General Assembly, and local communities and citizen groups. I am deeply grateful for all of their aggressive work to get us to this point in our journey, but this is only another step, albeit an important one, towards success. We must continue to remain committed to doing all that we can to make this vision a funded and functioning reality as soon as possible. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a grant to the City of Hammond Fire Department under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The $621,164 grant award will be used to assist in the purchase of ninety-five self-contained breathing apparatuses, along with additional spare air cylinders, face pieces, and rapid intervention team emergency air kits. The funding will also support training on how to use the equipment and fit testing for all personnel. In addition to personal protective equipment, FEMA’s AFG program generally awards grants to support professional training, equipment for wellness and fitness programs, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mayor McDermott and Fire Chief Smith for successfully identifying and obtaining this federal grant. Our brave firefighters are an indispensable asset to our communities and I am pleased that this grant will further improve the ability of the City of Hammond to save lives and keep residents and businesses safe and secure.” City of Hammond Fire Department Chief Jeffery C. Smith stated, “I would like to thank all those involved who assisted us in obtaining this grant. With the assistance of this grant, our firefighters will have the most up-to-date breathing apparatus available. Their protection and safety while fighting fires is our utmost priority.” For additional information on FEMA’s AFG program, click here. ###
09.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a grant for the Michigan City Fire Department under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. The $718,468 grant award will provide the Michigan City Fire Department with the ability to hire six additional firefighters. In general, the SAFER program is designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mayor Meer and the Michigan City Fire Department for successfully utilizing this federal program to increase their number of firefighters. First responders are essential to the safety of our communities and I am grateful that this grant award will improve the ability of Michigan City to assist citizens in their time of need.” Michigan City Mayor Ron Meer stated, “We are extremely thankful for receiving this opportunity. As Mayor, I am strongly committed to providing our residents and visitors with exceptional public health and safety services, and this SAFER grant award is a welcomed and much appreciated resource that will allow us to add an additional six firefighters to our already highly skilled and trained Michigan City Fire Department.” Michigan City Fire Department Chief Randy Novak stated, “Our firefighters risk their lives protecting this community and ensuring adequate staffing levels is crucial to the safety of our first responders and residents. The City of Michigan City is fortunate to have a hard-working government that is supportive to improve our public safety and work to meet the health needs of our residents.” For additional information on FEMA’s SAFER program, click here. ###
08.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has awarded a grant to South Shore Arts under the Arts Engagement in American Communities program. Specifically, the grant award will support a South Shore Arts instructor to provide art supplies and lead students in Lake, Porter, and LaPorte counties in art projects inspired by the children’s book “The Skin You Live In,” by Michael Tyler and illustrated by David Lee Csisko, and the environmental conservation story “Waterville” by Nick Mantis. All Arts Engagement in American Communities grant awards are for $10,000 and generally aim to support professional arts programming, including the presentation of artists or artwork and educational programs. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I have consistently supported funding for the NEA. While the current administration proposed to eliminate the NEA in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 budget request, I am pleased my colleagues and I on the House Appropriations Committee worked to include $145 million for the NEA in FY 2018 appropriations legislation, which is $5 million less than the FY 17 funding level. I commend John Cain and the staff of South Shore Arts for successfully utilizing this outstanding program for our youth and our communities, and I will continue to do all that I can to support this federal program.” John M. Cain, Executive Director of South Shore Arts, stated, “At a time when funding for the arts in schools continues to decline, it’s encouraging that the most august arts funder in our nation would provide financial support for a grassroots program like ‘The Skin You Live In,’ which helps children hone their artistic skills while increasing their acceptance of themselves and others.” For additional information on the National Endowment for the Arts, click here. ###
08.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a grant that will benefit several volunteer fire departments in Porter County under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. Specifically, the $680,000 grant award will assist the volunteer fire departments in Hebron, Kouts, Morgan Township, and Porter Township. This grant funding will be used to purchase duel band radios that will complement the action taken by the Porter County Board of Commissioners to upgrade the emergency radio system. In general, FEMA’s AFG program is designed to award grants directly to fire departments in order to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “Volunteer fire departments in Porter County put their lives on the line every day while they respond to emergencies and keep our communities safe. I am pleased that these departments collaborated to successfully identify and obtain this critical grant that will support the initiative of Porter County and further improve the safety of the public and our brave firefighters.” Hebron Fire Department Chief Chad Franzman stated, “It would be nearly impossible for the volunteer fire departments in Porter County to purchase these radios without the assistance of this grant. We appreciate the critical need that this federal program has fulfilled and look forward fully utilizing these radios in our operations.” For additional information on FEMA’s AFG program, click here. ###
08.10.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in response to President Trump’s comments yesterday that his “first order as President was to renovate and modernize our nuclear arsenal” and that “it is now far stronger and more powerful than ever before.” As the Ranking Member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and a member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, both Subcommittees that are responsible for providing funds for the maintenance and modernization of our nuclear arsenal, I would note that actions to design, build, maintain, and modify our nuclear weapons system take not months, but decades to implement. Additionally, if President Trump is referring to his order requesting a Nuclear Posture Review in January of 2017, it is important to note that the Department of Defense announced the start of this review in April of 2017, with the expectation that the final report will be given to the President by the end of the year. Further, while President Trump’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2018 does include additional funds for nuclear weapons activities, the appropriations legislation to fund such activities has not yet been signed into law. Additionally, our ability to keep our nation safe from nuclear threats does not depend solely on the modernization and renovation of our nuclear arsenal. Funding for nuclear infrastructure and nonproliferation programs, which President Trump cut in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget request, has an essential role in preventing the spread of fissile and radiological materials and stopping nuclear weapons from being obtained by those who may wish to cause us harm. The President’s loose and imprecise language is in stark contrast to the consummate professionalism of the men and women of our nuclear forces, who stand watch in defense of our country with the utmost gravity every minute of every day. I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion with my colleagues in Congress and on the House Appropriations Committee to make thoughtful and discrete funding decisions on how to best modernize and improve our nuclear weapons complex, while also working for a robust, multilateral nonproliferation effort, to keep every resident of our country safe and secure. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition is Lily Jean Wall for her piece entitled Nikki and the runner-up is LaShawn Wise for his piece entitled Covered by Country. Lily Jean Wall’s artwork will be on display in the U.S. Capitol building until June 2018, and it will be next to pieces of artwork selected from each Congressional District in the United States. Lily is entering her senior year at Highland High School and her artwork is a drawing of her art teacher, Mr. Nikki Kutansky, who has been one of her biggest influences growing up. LaShawn Wise recently graduated from the Emerson Wirt Visual and Performing Arts Academy and his artwork is a digital photograph of his friend who will soon be serving in the U.S. military. Congressman Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Lily and LaShawn, and I thank all of the Northwest Indiana students who utilized their time and talents to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. It is heartening to see such creative expressions from our Northwest Indiana students, and I wish all of them the best in their continued academic and artistic studies.” For additional information on the Congressional Art Competition, please click here. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s House consideration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. I thank the Ranking Member for yielding me time. Chairwoman Granger, congratulations on bringing your first Defense Appropriations Bill to the House Floor. I deeply appreciate your steadfast commitment to maintaining its tradition of cooperative bipartisanship, transparency, and taking a thoughtful approach to solving problems. Also, I would like to express my immense gratitude to Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, Members of the Subcommittee, and the staff. On the Subcommittee, the clerks Jennifer Miller and Rebecca Leggieri, Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, BG Wright, Adrienne Ramsay, Allison Deters, Megan Milam, Cornell Teague, Collin Lee, Matthew Boyer, Sherry Young, Jennifer Chartrand, and Chris Bigelow. In the personal offices, Johnnie Kaberle, Jason Schenck, Joe DeVooght, and Adam Kahnke. We have a duty to provide predictable and timely appropriations to the Department of Defense (DoD) and the rest of the federal government. That’s not just me speaking as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee. That is a consistent request from our senior defense leaders. However, the House bills exceed the cap on Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 defense spending, established under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), by $72.5 billion. If enacted as written, and the BCA caps remain in place, the Department of Defense would face a sequester of roughly 13 percent. The Department has still not recovered from the rash of problems caused by the last time it was forced to deal with sequestration in 2013. In the second half of FY 2013 the Department savaged its Operations and Maintenance accounts to continue ongoing contingency operations and to protect Military Personnel accounts. This resulted in the Navy idling an aircraft carrier at a pier in Norfolk, the Army cancelling training rotations, the Air Force reducing flight times for its combat aircraft, and widespread civilian furloughs. We simply cannot allow that to happen again in FY 2018. We have avoided sequestration in the last four fiscal years by adjusting the BCA caps for both defense and nondefense appropriations. Those modest adjustments, done in a bipartisan and bicameral fashion, provided needed funding for our military, but also for our country’s economic and physical infrastructure, scientific research, public health system, and veterans care. If past is prologue, after this bill passes the House, it will sit idle until mid-September, when we begin the tortured process of short term continuing resolutions, shutdown brinksmanship, possibly an increase in the BCA caps, and then, maybe an Omnibus. Besides my frustration with the process, I have concerns with the significant increase in funding that this bill would provide to DoD – $60 billion more than FY 2017 and $29 billion more than requested. I support providing additional funding to the Department, as I believe we are asking too much of our brave servicemembers and their families. Also, to put it mildly, the world is a very unsettled place and not trending towards stability. That being said, I believe that the Department will have difficulty spending so many additional dollars in a timely, efficient, and transparent manner. Vacancies in important leadership positions, hiring restrictions on civilian employees, and a handful of ongoing strategic reviews will all slow the decision making process. Finally, it is unlikely that Congress will complete its work in a timely manner and that any dollars provided will have to be spent in a compressed period of time. To further my transparency concerns, I am not convinced the current Administration evaluates dollars being spent on the military with the same criteria as it does the rest of the federal government. In the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) Major Savings and Reform document for FY 2018 – a page-turner with 150 proposals to allegedly save billions in discretionary programs – there was only one recommendation for the Department of Defense that had the potential to save $2 billion annually by 2027. With a budget of roughly $600 billion a year, representing nearly half of discretionary spending, it is beyond the pale that OMB could only come up with a single proposal for savings at DoD. One final point is that I am highly disappointed that the Republican leadership in the House watered down the language that was added during the Committee markup regarding the Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). Rep. Barbara Lee’s language would have established an eminently reasonable approach to update the 2001 AUMF. Congress must stop hiding from this debate and carry out its constitutional responsibilities. In closing, I would like to again reiterate my thanks to Members and staff that logged the long hard hours required to put this product together. I look forward to the debate on amendments. I thank the Ranking Member for yielding. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Late yesterday, Congressman Pete Visclosky supported a Buy America amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Interior Appropriations Act. The amendment strikes provisions that would have weakened Buy America requirements for projects receiving funding through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. Specifically, the amendment removed provisions that would have potentially permitted slab and finished iron and steel products that are imported and then substantially transformed to meet Buy America requirements. Congressman Visclosky stated, “We cannot allow any weakening of our Buy America requirements. Should we allow this exemption, we open the door to even more exemptions that would harm both our national economy and our national security. I will continue to do everything possible to make sure that American taxpayer dollars are used to support projects that use American iron and steel products that are manufactured from start to finish by American workers.” The amendment was approved by voice vote. The FY 2018 Interior Appropriations Act, including the Buy America amendment, was approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The measure is currently awaiting consideration by the full House of Representatives. For additional information on the FY 2018 Interior Appropriations Act, click here. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly, U.S. Senator Todd Young, and U.S. Representative Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01) sent a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), Dr. Tom Price, and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald, requesting assistance for the residents of East Chicago impacted by the contamination at the USS Lead Superfund site. The request from Donnelly, Young, and Visclosky is part of their ongoing efforts to help the more than 1,000 residents affected by the dangerous environmental contamination in the soil of the site. Donnelly, Young, and Visclosky said in their letter, in part, “Given the lengthy timeframe residents have potentially been subjected to cumulative exposures…residents are rightfully concerned about the long-term impacts to their health and well-being. We ask that HHS work with the City to identify opportunities available to improve treatment, prevention, and education programs for area residents. We also ask that HHS detail its ability to provide long-term health monitoring and treatment for impacted residents, both past and present…We urge CDC to ensure that the [public health] assessment is a thorough examination of the cumulative, long-term exposure residents face through all potential exposure pathways while living, working, and playing in the neighborhood…The residents of the USS Lead Superfund Site deserve to be confident that their homes and their neighborhoods are not harmful to their health.” The signed letter and the full text of the letter are below. July 13, 2017 The Honorable Thomas E. Price, M.D. Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Dear Secretary Price and Director Fitzgerald: As you are both well aware, the residents of the communities impacted by the USS Lead Superfund Site in East Chicago, Indiana have significant concerns regarding the potential health effects of their exposure to lead, arsenic, and other contaminants. We appreciate the efforts from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to date, and we are writing to request your continued assistance for the residents and the City of East Chicago. The City and the State of Indiana have been working to provide free blood testing to impacted residents, which has been helpful in identifying residents needing the most immediate treatment and care. Given the lengthy timeframe residents have potentially been subjected to cumulative exposures, however, residents are rightfully concerned about the long-term impacts to their health and well-being. We ask that HHS work with the City to identify opportunities available to improve treatment, prevention, and education programs for area residents. We also ask that HHS detail its ability to provide long-term health monitoring and treatment for impacted residents, both past and present. We understand that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) is updating its public health assessment to evaluate the health impacts to residents from exposure to contaminants. We urge CDC to ensure that the assessment is a thorough examination of the cumulative, long-term exposure residents face through all potential exposure pathways while living, working, and playing in the neighborhood. We also urge the CDC to provide a meaningful opportunity for the City of East Chicago, its Health Department, and other stakeholders to comment on the ATSDR's revised Health Assessment, and that the ATSDR take into account relevant current and historic testing data from all reliable sources. The residents of the USS Lead Superfund Site deserve to be confident that their homes and their neighborhoods are not harmful to their health. We look forward to continue working with you to give residents that confidence. Sincerely U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly U.S. Senator Todd Young US. Representative Peter J. Visclosky 170713 Letter to HHS and CDC re East Chicago.pdf ###
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s House Appropriations Committee consideration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. Chairwoman Granger, congratulations on bringing your first Defense Appropriations Bill before the Committee. You have taken the helm of the subcommittee in an exceptionally difficult year and I deeply appreciate your steadfast commitment to maintaining its tradition of cooperative bipartisanship, transparency, and taking a thoughtful approach to solving problems. Also, I would like to express my gratitude to Chairman Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, Members of the Subcommittee, and the staff. It was just seven weeks ago that the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act was enacted and only five weeks since we received the FY 2018 President’s Budget Request. It has taken a superhuman effort by all those involved to get the FY 2018 Defense Appropriations Act to markup in such a tremendously abbreviated timeline. The Chairwoman has provided a detailed and accurate summary of the bill and report in her opening remarks. I agree with her that the legislation as written has the potential to fill many of the military’s readiness gaps and maintain the strategic technological advantage we enjoy today. Further, I am in lockstep with her, and I am confident all of my colleagues on this Committee are also in agreement, that we have a duty to provide predictable and timely appropriations to the Department of Defense and the rest of the federal government. That’s not just us speaking as Appropriators, but that is a consistent request from our senior defense leaders. Unfortunately, at this moment, I am not optimistic about the chances of this bill’s independent enactment in a timely fashion. Most prominent of the obstacles facing this legislation is the Budget Control Act of 2011, more commonly referred to as the BCA. I cannot miss an opportunity to point out that I did not vote for the BCA, but it remains the law. The bill we are considering today greatly exceeds the cap on defense spending established under the BCA for FY 2018. So much so, that if enacted as written, and the BCA caps remain in place, the Department of Defense would face a sequester of roughly 13 percent. The Department has still not recovered from the rash of problems caused by the last time it was forced to deal with sequestration in 2013 and the repair of those problems has been one of the prime focuses of the Chairwoman. Just to refresh everyone’s memory, the Department savaged its Operations and Maintenance accounts in the second half of FY 2013 to continue ongoing contingency operations and to protect Military Personnel accounts. This resulted in the Navy idling an aircraft carrier at a pier in Norfolk, the Army cancelling training rotations, the Air Force greatly reducing flight times for its combat coded aircraft, and widespread civilian furloughs. We simply cannot allow that to happen in FY 2018. We have avoided sequestration in the four most recent fiscal years by adjusting the BCA caps to make additional investments in defense and nondefense appropriations. Those modest adjustments, done in a bipartisan and bicameral fashion, provided needed funding for our men and women in uniform, but also for our country’s economic and physical infrastructure, scientific research, public health system, and veterans care. The current FY 2018 budget reportedly proposed by the House Majority, while vastly superior to the nonsensical document put forth by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in May, exceeds the BCA cap by $70 billion for defense spending and is $5 billion under the cap for nondefense, ignoring these past compromises. If past is prologue, after this bill passes the House, it will sit idle until mid-September, when we begin the tortured process of short term continuing resolutions, shutdown brinksmanship, possibly an increase in the BCA caps, and then, maybe an Omnibus. This is the very outcome the Secretary of Defense stated he did not want to happen. I hope my predicted path for this bill and those that invest in the human and physical capital of this nation is overly pessimistic and that a consensus will be reached prior to the end of the fiscal year, allowing us to break free from this cycle of uncertainty. Ideally, Congress will enact a full repeal of the act as part of a larger bipartisan effort to address the budgetary issues facing the federal government in its entirety – entitlements and taxes included. If the first six years of the BCA have demonstrated anything, it is that arbitrary caps on discretionary spending, which represents less than one-sixth of the federal budget equation, have had a negligible impact on deficits, inhibited needed long-term investment in our nation, and wasted more through the contortions, delays, and uncertainty it has created. Further, complicating the Committee’s work is that top-line funding levels for this bill were still under negotiations as of last Friday. For the second year in a row, the development of the Defense Appropriations bill was upset by last minute circumstances created by other Committees. It is a wonder that the Chairwoman, Members, and our incomparable staff were able to assemble a bill and report under these conditions. Setting aside my frustration with the process, I also wish to express my concern with the significant increase in funding that this bill would provide to DoD – $60 billion more than FY 2017 and $29 billion more than the Department even requested. I support providing additional funding to the Department, as I believe we are asking too much of our brave servicemembers and their families. Also, to put it mildly, the world is a very unsettled place and not trending towards stability. That being said, I believe that the Department will have difficulty spending so many additional dollars in a timely, efficient, and transparent manner. Vacancies in important leadership positions within the Department, and hiring restrictions on civilian employees will slow the decision making process. Currently, the Department is in the midst of four comprehensive strategic reviews, including: the National Defense Strategy, the Nuclear Posture Review, the Afghanistan Strategy Review, and the Counter-ISIS Plan. Each is ongoing and their impact on spending during FY 2018 is unknown. Finally, it is not likely that Congress will complete our work in a timely manner and that any dollars provided will have to be spent in a compressed timeline, much like the current year. Given these concerns, I especially appreciate Chairwoman Granger’s cooperation in including bill and report language in the Manager’s Amendment in order to meet our constitutional oversight responsibility and require transparency into the Defense Restoration Funds. These Funds account for $18.6 billion in the base bill and $10 billion in the Overseas Contingency Operations accounts. The added restrictions strengthen our ability to oversee the Department’s actions. I cannot stress enough how important it is for this Committee to exercise rigorous and effective oversight for every dollar it provides, including those for the Department of Defense. We are a coequal branch and as we struggle to right our fiscal ship, oversight is more important than ever. In closing, I would like to again reiterate my thanks to Members and staff that logged the long hard hours required to put this product together. As we move forward in the FY 2018 process along, I look forward to continuing to work with Chairwoman Granger and the members of the Committee to complete our work. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman for the time. ###
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), along with 12 other members of the Caucus, sent a letter to the President expressing support for the Department of Commerce’s Section 232 investigation of the impact of steel imports on national security. A copy of the letter was also sent to Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, Secretary of Treasury Steven Mnuchin, and Secretary of Defense James Mattis. Specifically, the letter states that to be effective, a Section 232 remedy must apply broadly to the full spectrum of steel products, avoid exceptions that could be exploited by dumping or circumvention by foreign producers, and be sustained for a significant period of time to ensure the industry’s vitality. The letter also stated that the Congressional Steel Caucus is committed to maintaining the strength of America’s steel industry, ensuring the industry’s ability to provide for our national defense and economic security, and supporting the communities and workers whose livelihoods depend on steelmaking. Complete list of cosigners and full text of the letter is available below. Dear Mr. President: The Congressional Steel Caucus has long recognized the fundamental and strategic importance of our domestic steel industry to America’s national security. We hope that the Section 232 investigation conducted by the Department of Commerce will affirmatively recognize this clear connection and the destructive impact that unfairly and illegally traded foreign steel products have had on American producers and their workers. To be effective, a Section 232 remedy must apply broadly to the full spectrum of steel products, avoid exceptions that could be exploited by dumping or circumvention by foreign producers, and be sustained for a significant period of time to ensure the industry’s vitality. In developing and implementing a remedy, it is imperative to recognize that the efforts to undermine the American steel industry are multifaceted. The domestic steel industry’s ability to provide material to the military, electrical steel for the grid or drilling equipment for the energy industry may be fatally undermined if foreign countries and producers are allowed to destroy other lines of business that are critical to American steel producers’ economic viability. Taking away one or two legs of a chair makes the entire platform unusable. A remedy must encompass the entirety of the American steel industry in order to safeguard our national security. The Congressional Steel Caucus is committed to maintaining the strength of America’s steel industry, ensuring the industry’s ability to provide for our national defense and economic security, and supporting the communities and workers whose livelihoods depend on steelmaking. For these reasons, we encourage you to take strong, bold action to halt the unfair trade actions that have deeply harmed and continue to threaten one of our nation’s foundational industries. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Richard M. Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA)​ Final Letter to President Section 232 Investigation.pdf ###
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), along with other members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter to the President asking for full support for the use of American-made steel in any expansion of national naval shipbuilding. This letter follows a series of recent proposals to increase the size of the United States' naval fleet. Threats to American interests continue to proliferate around the world and our nation increasingly relies on the inherent capabilities of the U. S. Navy and its carrier strike groups. As discussed at the Congressional Steel Caucus annual hearing in March, and as the letter states, the aircraft carriers and other naval ships produced by our domestic shipbuilding industry are a crucial element and strategic asset for our national defense. Additionally, the letter notes the billions of dollars injected into our nation's economy by domestic shipbuilding – including the steel industry – as well as the thousands of high-skilled jobs provided in more than 300 congressional districts across the country. “A healthy domestic steel industry and a strong domestic steel workforce are vital to our nation’s naval shipbuilding industry, our national security and our economic well-being,” the letter concludes. Complete list of cosigners and full text of the letter is available below. Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. Richard Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA) Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL) Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) Rep. Charles W. Dent (R-PA) Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) Rep. Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL) Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA) Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. GT Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Donald S. Beyer (D-VA) Dear Mr. President:On behalf of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we write to you in support of the American naval shipbuilding industry, a strong component of our domestic manufacturing sector that depends on access to large quantities of the highest quality American-made steel. As discussed at the most recent Congressional Steel Caucus hearing on March 29, 2017, aircraft carriers and other naval ships produced by our domestic shipbuilding industry are a vital element of our national defense. As threats to American interests continue to proliferate around the world, our nation increasingly relies on the inherent flexibility and capabilities of the United States Navy and its carrier strike groups comprised of an aircraft carrier, cruisers, destroyers, and submarines.That is why the Caucus strongly supports proposals to increase our fleet size. Currently, the production of one aircraft carrier every five years injects more than three billion dollars into our nation’s economy and directly supports thousands of high-skilled jobs in 43 states and more than 300 congressional districts. Moreover, American steel producers provide $265 million worth of steel for the building of a single carrier. By reducing the time between carrier starts from five years to less than four years, the Navy could much more easily procure two carriers at a time, using a multi-ship purchase approach thereby improving construction efficiencies and enabling economic ordering of equipment and materials for each ship, including the domestic steel used in armor plating and shipboard equipment. Both the Virginia-Class Submarine (VCS) and DDG-51 destroyer programs currently benefit from multi-year procurement contracts allowing the Navy to buy two ships per year. These programs have seen substantial savings as a result of serial production and the inclusion of funding for economic order quantity purchases. Increasing procurement rates to three per year would again reduce their unit cost, and deliver those ships to the fleet more quickly. A heightened pace of procurement for these successful ship classes is absolutely essential to increasing the fleet’s size, capability, and lethality. From the standpoint of the Congressional Steel Caucus, such an effort will safeguard and bolster our domestic steel industry – a strategic national asset. There is no doubt that as a nation we face difficult choices in order to strengthen the economic health of the defense industrial base. As a Caucus, we are united in the belief that a healthy domestic steel industry and a strong domestic steel workforce are vital to our nation’s naval shipbuilding industry, our national security, and our economic well-being. We look forward to your response to this letter and hope to work with you to advance the domestic steel and shipbuilding industries. Thank you for your consideration. FINAL Steel Letter to POTUS.pdf ###
06.15.2017	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Hearing with Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford. Thank you very much, Chairwoman Granger. I appreciate you holding this hearing and look forward to working with you to craft the best possible Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Defense Appropriations Act. Secretary Mattis and General Dunford, we appreciate you being here to testify and I would like to welcome Under Secretary Norquist in his first appearance before this Subcommittee. In your written testimonies, you dedicate a significant amount of detail describing the upset, unnecessary churn, and inefficiency caused by the lack of predictability and timeliness in appropriations over the last decade. Additionally, you highlight what you see as the future negative consequences to our military and country if funding stability does not reappear soon. While I might have a slightly different outlook on the cause and the potential solution, I could not agree more with the value you attach to predictable and timely appropriations. I am confident all of my colleagues on this Subcommittee are in agreement. The House Appropriations Committee, under the leadership of Chairmen Rogers, Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Lowey, and Chairwoman Granger have continually been stymied in efforts to move responsible and timely funding measures through Congress. This is best evidenced by the FY 2017 Appropriations process, which was finally enacted seven months into the fiscal year, but could have easily been finished months sooner if there had been the political will from the leadership of the Majority party. With regards to the Department of Defense’s (DOD) FY 2018 Budget Request, I am not opposed to providing additional funding to the Department, as I believe we are asking too much of those wearing the uniform today and of their families. That is why I appreciate how this budget prioritizes military personnel and operations and maintenance accounts. However, I am concerned that some of the proposed increases are lacking in justification as well as taking into account future costs over the next five years. Currently, the Department is in the midst of several large strategic reviews, including: the National Defense Strategy, the Nuclear Posture Review, the Afghanistan Strategy Review, and the Counter-ISIS Plan. While I understand the FY 2019 budget will be the first to reflect these reviews, the FY 2018 request does ask for a five and one half percent increase or $33 billion more than the total FY 2017 enacted level. That is a significant amount of money to request prior to all those plans being finalized. Further, with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking for significantly more discretionary funding only for Defense, we are again venturing down a path that will be blocked by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) unless there is legislative fix. While I appreciate comments made by Secretary Mattis in hearings this week about engaging in a strategic dialogue with Congress about the BCA and believe those efforts will have value, I fear that absent a sincere and bipartisan attempt to address the budgetary issues facing the federal government in its entirety – entitlements and taxes included – we will be forced to again muddle along through the next few months until we begin the new regular order – a short term CR, another CR, a third short term CR, and finally an Omnibus measure at topline numbers slightly higher than the BCA caps. On a positive note, I was excited to read that the Department is on track to enter into a full, agency-wide financial statement audit beginning in FY 2018. While this was required by statute, there was some concern that it would be difficult to meet this goal, so I am very pleased to see the effort is on track. Madam Chair, thank you again for holding the hearing and I look forward to the witnesses’ testimony. ###
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) have submitted a letter to the Department of Commerce in support of their Section 232 investigation of the impact of steel imports on national security. The letter has been submitted as a part of the record of official public comments on the investigation. Specifically, the letter states that the American steel industry is absolutely critical to our national defense and that American steelworkers produce steel that is used in aircraft carriers, armored vehicles, and submarines. The letter also states that in order to ensure that steel continues to be made in America – and that we will never be vulnerable to foreign pressure or coercion in the event of a true national security emergency affecting the homeland or our interests around the world – something must be done to address the onslaught of imports affecting the industry. Further, the letter states that it is important that the federal government use every tool available to address this issue and carefully examine how unfairly traded steel is affecting the prosperity and security of this nation. Below are the text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version. Dear Secretary Ross: We write as the leaders of the Congressional Steel Caucus to express our support for the Department’s thorough investigation into the impact of steel imports on national security. The American steel industry is absolutely critical to our national defense. Each day, American steelworkers produce steel that is used in aircraft carriers, armored vehicles, and submarines. They provide a product that is directly responsible for keeping our brave servicemen and women safe and ready to respond to security threats. The industry also supports a strong national economy, which in turn supports a strong national defense. The steel industry directly employs 142,000 Americans and supports another 1 million jobs. In order to ensure that steel continues to be made in America – and that we will never be vulnerable to foreign pressure or coercion in the event of a true national security emergency affecting the homeland or our interests around the world – something must be done to address the onslaught of imports affecting the industry. In April, the total steel import market share was 28 percent. Moreover, in the first four months of this year, total steel imports have increased 23 percent above the same time period last year. These imports are often traded well below market value or are subsidized by foreign governments, preventing American companies from competing on a level playing field. Congress has attempted to remedy this problem by approving two new laws, the Trade Preferences Extension Act and the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, which seek to improve the antidumping and countervailing duty investigation and enforcement process. Further, the Department of Commerce currently maintains 191 antidumping and countervailing duty orders on steel and steel-related products from 33 countries. This accounts for half of all current orders, and there are an additional 20 ongoing steel and steel-related product investigations. While we believe these actions have been helpful in addressing the ongoing steel import crisis, more must be done. That is why we welcome the Department’s investigation into the impact of steel imports on national security. It is important that the federal government use every tool available to address this issue and carefully examine how unfairly traded steel is affecting the prosperity and security of this nation. Moving forward, the Congressional Steel Caucus will be closely monitoring the outcome of this investigation. We trust that this investigation will be conducted in good faith, and respectfully ask for its timely completion. We sincerely appreciate the opportunity to provide comments and thank you for your dedicated work. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressional Steel Caucus bipartisan comment 052617.pdf
05.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the City of Gary Fire Department has received a grant award under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The Gary Fire Department will receive a grant award of $261,364 to assist their operations and safety. In general, AFG program awards assist first-responder organizations in obtaining emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I commend Mayor Freeman-Wilson and Chief Bradley for successfully identifying and securing this federal grant. I am pleased that this funding will further assist the brave members of the Gary Fire Department who put their lives on the line every day to respond to residents in times of need and keep our communities safe.” City of Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson stated, “The Gary Fire Department is an integral part of public safety in our city and we are happy to receive this AFG grant that will assist in a number of upgrades for our firefighters. They deserve it! I commend all who worked toward the success of this grant and I thank Congressman Pete Visclosky for his continued support of Gary.” City of Gary Fire Department Chief Paul Bradley stated, “The Gary Fire Department is honored and excited to be one of the grantees of the AFG program. The funds from this grant will be used for physical examinations for all fire department personnel, fitness equipment for Gary Fire Stations, and the Gary Fire Department Training Facility. We believe that a healthy firefighter constitutes a healthy fire department, thus enabling us to better serve our city.” For additional information on the AFG program, click here. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified at the International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on rebar from Japan, Taiwan, and Turkey. Below is a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Schmidtlein, Vice Chairman Johanson, members of the Commission, and all of your staff, for your continued work to strongly enforce American trade laws. I appreciate this opportunity to testify as part of today’s hearing on steel concrete reinforcing bar, also known as rebar, from Japan, Taiwan, and Turkey. It is timely that the Commission is hearing this case during National Infrastructure Week, since rebar is such an essential component of our infrastructure. National Infrastructure Week was established by a large group of stakeholders, including the American Society of Civil Engineers, the AFL-CIO, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, to highlight the critical need to invest in our nation’s infrastructure. The product we are talking about today is a long-rolled steel product that is primarily consumed by the construction industry and used to provide strength to concrete. Rebar is used in many types of structures, from skyscrapers to bridges. Without it, we could not do the work of building this nation. It is essential to our national economy that we know how to make things. We need to know how to make steel products like rebar because these products are used in our transportation and critical systems of infrastructure. We need to know how to make things so that we constantly work to improve our knowledge and critical thinking skills. We also need these products to grow our economy and support jobs. Rebar producers in the United States employ over 10,000 workers at more than 100 facilities across the country. In order to ensure that American steel producers and steelworkers can continue to make things in this country and grow our knowledge base, we must work to guarantee that their products can compete on a level playing field. I truly believe that the work you are doing here is the front line in protecting American steel producers and steelworkers from unfair trade. According to the Department of Commerce, there are currently 191 antidumping and countervailing duty orders on steel and steel-related products from 33 countries, which accounts for half of all existing orders. This indicates a diligent commitment to holding countries that violate our trade laws accountable. I trust that you will continue these efforts moving forward because there is still more work to be done. Rebar imports from the countries we are discussing today have consistently threatened U.S. manufacturers. Between 2013 and 2015, imports of rebar from Japan, Taiwan, and Turkey increased 260 percent. So far in 2017, total rebar imports have increased 18 percent above the same period last year. In order to stop this trend, foreign countries must clearly receive the message that continued dumping and subsidizing of their products will not be tolerated. As we recognize National Infrastructure Week, it is my hope that the Commission will act to protect an industry that is vital to this country’s infrastructure and our economy. I strongly urge an affirmative determination in this case. I again thank you for your serious and thorough consideration. I deeply appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony today. ###
05.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today the promotion of several members of his Washington, D.C., office who have ties to Northwest Indiana. Megan Adamczewski is from Chesterton and was recently promoted to Legislative Director. In this position, Megan is responsible for leading the Congressman’s legislative priorities and monitoring House floor activities. “I studied Government in college and was fortunate to be able to serve as an intern in the First District’s D.C. office,” said Adamczewski. “I’m grateful to be able to continue using my skill set and knowledge of Northwest Indiana to provide services to our corner of Indiana.” Sameer Chintamani is from Munster and honed his skills and interest in current events as a member of the Munster High School Speech and Debate team. Sameer is currently an intern in the Congressman’s Washington office and will assume a full-time Staff Assistant position this month upon his graduation from American University with a degree in International Affairs and Economics. Chintamani stated, “Northwest Indiana has provided me such a great educational foundation and community growing up. I will try my best to ensure that similar opportunities are made possible for everyone in Northwest Indiana through the work and initiatives of Congressman Visclosky.” Michael Peterson is a Highland native and Valparaiso University graduate. He served as an intern in both the Merrillville and Washington offices, and recently transitioned to a Legislative Correspondent position. Michael was raised by multiple generations of Gary public school teachers, and brings this perspective to Congressman Visclosky’s efforts to support all students and teachers from elementary school through college. Peterson stated, “I am proud to be able to work to help provide the residents of Northwest Indiana, as well as all Americans, with chances to succeed and grow regardless of their background or zip code.” Sonja Schaefer grew up in Valparaiso and graduated with a double major in Economics and Chinese from Pacific Lutheran University in Washington State. Sonja started as an intern in the D.C. office and is currently transitioning from Staff Assistant to a Legislative Correspondent position. Schaefer stated, “From Washington State to Washington, D.C., I enjoy being able to support Congressman Visclosky and promote my home area that has a huge sandy beach in one direction and cornfields in the other.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “We are incredibly fortunate to have such dedicated staff that brings a wealth of perspectives and knowledge of Northwest Indiana to Washington, D.C.” Internships are offered in the Merrillville and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. For additional information on applying for an internship, click here. Picture Caption – “Recently Promoted Region Staff in Congressman Visclosky’s Washington, D.C., Office – From left to right, Sameer Chintamani, Megan Adamczewski, Michael Peterson, and Sonja Schaefer.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Below are the details for Congressman Pete Visclosky’s 2017 Military Academy Night. When: 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. - Monday - May 15, 2017 Where: Indiana University Northwest Anderson Library Conference Center Room LC105 3400 Broadway Gary, Indiana 46408 Who: Applicants who are from the First Congressional District and interested in attending a U.S. military academy. What: Students will learn about the educational opportunities and the application process for the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Members of the Congressman’s Academy Nomination Board will also be on hand to answer questions and meet prospective applicants. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I am pleased to be able to host this informative meeting for any student interested in receiving an outstanding education and serving our nation.” For additional information and to access the online application, please click here. ###
04.03.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the details of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for high school students from Indiana’s First Congressional District. Each year, the Congressional Institute and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor the Congressional Art Competition as an opportunity to promote the artistic talent in each Congressional District. Congressman Visclosky stated, “The Congressional Art Competition is a great program that recognizes and celebrates the talent of young artists in Northwest Indiana. I encourage all high school students to participate in this outstanding opportunity.” Please note there is no required theme for the submission; however, themes from Northwest Indiana, United States history, government, and culture are encouraged. The grand prize winner will have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, and will receive two (2) complimentary round-trip tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a ceremony unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Please note that all additional travel arrangements and expenses will be the responsibility of the winner. All artwork submissions and application forms must be brought to Congressman Visclosky’s Merrillville office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 28, 2017. Artwork will be accepted during the Merrillville office’s normal hours of operation: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Complete information about the Congressional Art Competition, including guidelines and application forms, is available on Congressman Visclosky’s website at: www.visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/congressional-art-competition. If applicants have any additional questions or concerns, please contact the Merrillville office at 219-795-1844. ###
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – Below is the prepared opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, from today’s Caucus hearing entitled “America Rebounding: Steel in 2017 and Beyond.” I would like to thank Chairman Murphy for holding today’s hearing. As we enter the early months of the 115th Congress and the new administration, I appreciate that we are taking the time today to discuss the issues of importance to American steel companies and steel-producing communities across our country. I also want to thank all of our witnesses and representatives of steel companies, steel associations, the United Steelworkers, and research institutes for your time and willingness to present your views on the state and direction of the American steel industry. I believe that steelworkers in Northwest Indiana and across our country make the best steel in the world, and we must do all that we can to ensure that they can continue to do so. As we approach 2017 and beyond, I remain concerned about the staggering amount of excess steel capacity in the world and the predatory trade actions of foreign countries. This past year I testified before the International Trade Commission on eight separate occasions in support of American steelworkers and their families. These cases pertained to the illegal actions of 18 separate countries, including China. These countries operate in economies that involve state-owned enterprises that utilize illegal subsides and preferential policies. I believe that these practices violate international trading standards, and as we move forward I will continue to testify before the ITC and ensure that our trade laws are fully enforced. Additionally, as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, I know that steel is an essential component of our national defense. It is necessary to build our ships, submarines, military vehicles, vests, and countless other types of equipment. 22 tons of steel are used in every U.S. Abrams tank. 50,000 tons of steel are used in every U.S. aircraft carrier, and half of that steel is produced in Northwest Indiana. I also adamantly believe that we should look for every opportunity to implement strong Buy America requirements that ensure the use of American made iron and steel. It is common sense to me that hard-earned American taxpayer dollars should be used to buy American products. As we move forward this year with the appropriations process, trade cases, and potential infrastructure legislation, I will continue to do all that I can to support our hard-working steelworkers and steel companies across our country. Again, I thank Chairman Murphy and all of the attendees and witnesses for your time and suggestions today on what Congress can do to continue to support American steel industry jobs this coming year and beyond. ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Visclosky spoke on the House floor in opposition to the American Health Care Act. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the American Health Care Act. I believe that the purpose of any health care legislation should be to improve the health and well-being of our nation’s citizens, and to allow for access to quality and affordable health care for all. That is why in the 111th Congress I was proud to support the Affordable Care Act. As a result of this landmark legislation, 19 million people in the United States now have health insurance coverage who did not before, and over nine-in-ten individuals in my home state of Indiana now have health insurance. Regretfully, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the legislation we are considering today will leave approximately 14 million more Americans without health insurance by 2018, and this number will continue to rise to an estimated 24 million by 2026. I am especially concerned that the American Health Care Act will jeopardize the health care coverage of the over 429,000 Hoosiers currently enrolled in Indiana’s expansion of Medicaid, also known as the Healthy Indiana Plan. Further, I believe it is especially disingenuous that if this bill passes today, this institution will have pushed the financial cuts to programs like the Healthy Indiana Plan conveniently until after the next congressional election. The Act before us also would negatively impact the health of millions of women and men who receive the medical services provided by Planned Parenthood. Additionally, it would not improve the well-being of our nation’s elderly by allowing providers to charge older enrollees up to five times as much as younger individuals. Finally, I would note with great concern that a provision was just added to the American Health Care Act that would remove the requirement that insurers cover life-saving, essential health benefits, including maternal and pediatric services, rehabilitative therapy, and mental health and substance abuse treatment. Congress should work to improve the Affordable Care Act and address important health concerns facing ordinary Americans, such as the rising cost of prescription drugs. But today’s bill does no such thing. It is unacceptable and I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation. ###
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the House Appropriations Committee on his support for transportation infrastructure funding in Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations legislation. In his testimony, Congressman Visclosky expressed his strong support for the Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grant program, which supports the expansion and recapitalization of the South Shore Rail Line. Congressman Visclosky also noted that the Indiana General Assembly is actively engaged in the statehouse, in a bipartisan fashion and with the assistance of Governor Holcomb, to approve legislation that would increase the availability of state and local resources for transportation infrastructure projects, and he expressed his strong support for this initiative. Below is a copy of his remarks, as prepared for delivery. Thank you Chairman Diaz-Balart, Ranking Member Price, and my Appropriations Committee colleagues on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee. I appreciate this opportunity to advocate for programs under this Subcommittee’s jurisdiction. I am here today on behalf of my constituents in Northwest Indiana to express my strong support for the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Capital Investment Grant program, which includes New Starts and Core Capacity grants. The funding provided under this program supports transit projects across the country, including the expansion and recapitalization of the commuter train system in Northwest Indiana, known as the South Shore Rail Line. Americans have shown a growing preference for using and living near public transit, with 10.6 billion trips taken in 2015 alone. Over the past 20 years, public transit ridership has risen 39 percent, far outpacing the 21 percent increase in population over the same period. The perceived value of living in a walkable community that offers transportation choices is reflected in increased property values near transit stations. A study prepared in coordination with the National Association of Realtors concluded that home values performed 42 percent better on average if they were located near public transportation with high-frequency service. And it is not just individuals that are demonstrating a preference for public transit. A report published by Smart Growth America examined more than 500 companies that moved between 2010 and 2015 to downtown locations, often due to the availability of public transit. Good transit is a legitimate draw for talent and is becoming a critical economic development tool in today’s competitive climate. The American Public Transportation Association estimates that every $1 invested in public transportation generates approximately $4 in economic returns. We can easily find examples of this return on investment in communities across the country. For instance, the regional transit agency in Dallas, Texas, Dallas Area Rapid Transit, has successfully utilized Capital Investment Grant funding to expand segments of their light rail system, which has contributed to an economic boom in North Texas. Specifically, the transit agency estimates that there has been more than $7 billion in economic impact from new or planned construction within a quarter mile of the rail line’s stations. Recognizing the job growth and economic development opportunities afforded by investments in public transit, my district has been doggedly supporting the expansion and recapitalization of the South Shore Rail Line. I believe that Northwest Indiana is one of the best places in the world to live, work, visit, and raise a family, and I regret that my district has seen a significant decline in population and median income over the past half a century. Between 1970 and 2015, the number of school age children in Northwest Indiana dropped by over 74,000 children. Further, the population of Lake County, Indiana, has decreased by 10 percent, and the median income, adjusted for inflation, has decreased by 12.5 percent. Interestingly, the opposite is true in Lake County, Illinois, which has seen its population grow by 83.9 percent, and its median income increase by 17.7 percent. Both counties are similarly located near the environs of Chicago and on Lake Michigan, the largest body of fresh water in the world. But Illinois’ investment in the over 400 miles of commuter rail lines emanating from the Chicago Loop has allowed their residents to better access Chicago’s economy, which is larger than the economy of Sweden. Northwest Indiana has only 38 miles of commuter rail to Michigan City, Indiana. My district has come together in recognition that regional connection, through a meaningful mass transportation system, will allow us to better access the good paying jobs in Chicago and diversify our economy through transit oriented development. Within the last few years, 16 communities have come together to dedicate a portion of their local economic development tax revenue towards the expansion of the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana. Vice President Pence, in his role as Governor of Indiana, signed legislation into law providing for dedicated state funding to support this endeavor. I would add that as we speak, the Indiana General Assembly is actively engaged in the statehouse, in a bipartisan fashion and with the assistance of our current Governor Holcomb, to approve legislation that would increase the availability of state and local resources for transportation infrastructure projects. I strongly support the initiative in the Indiana General Assembly, but it will all be for naught if the Capital Investment Grant program is not adequately funded. For Fiscal Year 2016, the program received $2.17 billion, which has been sustained due to the enactment of the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution. The most recent surface transportation legislation, P.L. 114-94, the FAST Act, authorizes $2.3 billion annually for Capital Investment Grants. Reducing funding for this critical program would be counterproductive to our goal as federal representatives to support jobs and economic development. While I am here today to advocate on behalf of my constituents for a project in my district, there is no shortage of specific examples of communities nationwide seeking to take advantage of the promise of job creation and transit oriented development this program affords. The Federal Transit Administration noted in its Fiscal Year 2017 budget submission that the number of projects in the Capital Investment Grant “pipeline” has grown significantly over the years, from 37 in Fiscal Year 2012 to 63 in Fiscal Year 2016. And contrary to popular belief, these transit projects are not relegated to the coasts, with projects currently spanning the country in El Paso, Texas, Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. This Subcommittee has recognized the significant job creation and economic development opportunities created by Capital Investment Grants, allocating $2.5 billion for the program under the House version of the Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act approved by the House Appropriations Committee last May, which represents an increase of $323 million above the previous fiscal year. I commend you on this recognition, and urge your continued robust support for the program in Fiscal Year 2018. Thank you for your time. ###
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly and Congressman Pete Visclosky, along with the support of the entire Indiana Congressional delegation, have introduced respective legislation in the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives to designate the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore as a National Park. Specifically, the legislation would retitle the “Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore” as the “Indiana Dunes National Park”. The designation would create the first National Park in Indiana and the 60th National Park in the United States, which would give greater recognition to the natural beauty of the dunes and potentially draw more visitors and boost the local economy. Due to the vast biological diversity and geological features of the Northwest Indiana lakeshore, the first Director of the National Park Service, Mr. Stephen Mather, proposed designating the southern shore of Lake Michigan as the “Sand Dunes National Park” in 1916. Unfortunately, this proposal was abandoned at the onset of World War I, but the Indiana Congressional delegation is again pushing for that designation. Senator Joe Donnelly stated, “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is one of Indiana’s and the Great Lakes Region’s most beautiful natural resources. Designating the dunes as a National Park would give the area the recognition it deserves and help preserve the natural beauty of the dunes. And by placing it in the same category as the other jewels of the National Park System, we hope it will attract more visitors to explore and enjoy all of the recreational activities the dunes offer, further stimulating the economy in Northwest Indiana.” Senator Todd Young stated, “Many Hoosier families have fond memories of times spent together at the Indiana Dunes. Changing its designation to a National Park will give families who live outside our great state the opportunity to know about, and enjoy, one of Indiana's most beautiful places.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “The recognition of being a National Park would complete an effort that began a century ago. It is past time that the rest of the nation recognizes the environmental wonder and significance of the Indiana Dunes. I thank Senator Donnelly and Senator Young for supporting companion legislation in the U.S. Senate, and I also thank my Indiana House colleagues and all the Northwest Indiana community leaders and officials for their steadfast support for this initiative that will ultimately attract more visitors and create more economic opportunities in our region.” “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a treasured source of beauty and recreation for Hoosier families,” Congresswoman Jackie Walorski said. “Making it our state’s first National Park will boost the Indiana economy by drawing more tourists from across the country who want to explore the dunes.” Natalie Johnson, Executive Director of Save the Dunes, stated, “The Indiana Dunes clearly deserve top recognition as a National Park because of its unparalleled biodiversity and cultural heritage. By retitling the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to the Indiana Dunes National Park, we hope to see increased awareness and appreciation of this beautiful landscape.” Speros Batistatos, President and CEO of the South Shore Convention and Visitors Authority, stated, “Millions of visitors are drawn to the Indiana Dunes each year, and a national park designation has the potential bring in additional visitors and increase the economic impact of the dunes for our region.” Jack Arnett, Executive Director of the LaPorte County Convention and Visitors Bureau, stated, “This designation will allow us to greatly increase the economic impact of tourism in our state and build upon marketing the Indiana Dunes National Park as a national destination.” Lorelei Weimer, Executive Director for Indiana Dunes Tourism, stated, “People love to visit our national parks and many travelers include visiting all of the national parks on their bucket lists. Many potential new visitors will add the Indiana Dunes National Park to their travel to do list because they will now know we are one of the national parks.” ###
03.08.2017	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Ranking Democrat on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered during the House consideration of the conference agreement for the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Act, as prepared for delivery. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. I would like to begin by congratulating Chairman Frelinghuysen on bringing his first bill to the House Floor as the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee. I have greatly appreciated his friendship and steady leadership of the Defense Subcommittee over the past four fiscal years. Further, I also would like to thank the new Subcommittee Chairwoman, Kay Granger. She has been a great partner in completing the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Conference and I look forward to working with her as we proceed. Finally, I’d like to thank the Members of the Subcommittee and the great staff of the Subcommittee for the long hours they have logged in putting together this product. The bill before us today improves on the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Act that the House passed last June. Most notably, this bill adheres to the spirit of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 and provides enough funding to support our military and intelligence community for the full fiscal year. Additionally, this bill includes strong positons countering Russian aggression, enhancing cybersecurity, building partner capacity, and supporting readiness. Because it is a product of bipartisan negotiation, this is a good bill and I intend to support it. Despite my support for this legislation, I am extremely troubled that we are still working on the FY 2017 Defense bill in the sixth month of the fiscal year. For six months, the Department of Defense has been operating under a continuing resolution which drives wasteful spending and forces inefficiencies into the budget process. This is not the fault of the Committee. All that has been absent is a lack of political will on behalf of the Majority Party. Even more disconcerting is the fact that the Defense Appropriations Act is just the vanguard of the eleven FY 2017 Appropriations bills that need to be completed by the end of next month. There is no excuse for them remaining unfinished. The investments made through those bills are vital to so many in our country and they need equal attention from Congress and the Administration. It is imperative that we strive every day to prioritize keeping America safe and supporting our brave servicemembers, but we must also prioritize educating our workforce, making improvements in public health, in science and research and development, and in our economic and transportation infrastructure. If we neglect these investments in our future and in the well-being and success of current families and future generations of families in our country, then I am concerned that we will not have a country left worth defending. Confounding a confused fiscal situation, there is a $30 billion supplemental request for FY 2017 recently submitted to OMB by the Department of Defense, which should make its way to Congress in the next few weeks. Additionally, as the Administration modifies its FY 2018 budget request they are without a predictable base on which to build. There is very little margin for error given the few legislative days remaining before the Continuing Resolution expires on April 28. I, and I believe the Chairman, do not view that date as another point for negotiation. It is an absolute deadline, and the value of this bill and every other appropriations bill diminishes every day they are not enacted. In closing, I appreciate being able to manage this bill with the Chairman. Going forward I will work hard with Chairman Frelinghuysen, Chairwoman Granger, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other Members of the Committee to return the appropriations process to its normal schedule. Thank you, Mr. Speaker and I reserve the balance of my time. ###
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the House Budget Committee on his budgetary priorities for Indiana’s First Congressional District for Fiscal Year 2018. Below is a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks as prepared for delivery. Thank you Chairwoman Black and Ranking Member Yarmuth. And I thank the committee for providing this opportunity to outline some of the budgetary priorities of Indiana’s First Congressional District. As a Member of the House Committee on Appropriations, I am very aware of the challenges involved in developing a budget blueprint that balances responsible fiscal policies with the need to make investments to support a strong economy and strengthen our national security. This task is made no less difficult by the announcement this week that the President will be submitting a budget request that proposes a $54 billion cut to domestic programs. In making your considerations, I am here today on behalf of my constituents in Northwest Indiana and our nation to advocate for a Fiscal Year 2018 budget that does not allow for significant reductions in federal funding for investments in infrastructure projects, and particularly public transit projects. Any such reductions would ultimately be counterproductive, undermining the job creation, economic development, and the demonstrated return on investment these transformational infrastructure projects provide for communities nationwide. Public transportation has seen an increasing demand in recent years with Americans demonstrating a strong desire to live and work in walkable communities that offer transportation choices. According to the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), in 2014, Americans took 10.8 billion trips on public transportation, representing a 58-year high. This reflects a recognition of the personal benefits public transit affords, including shorter commutes, saved money on costs associated with automobiles, and easier access to job opportunities. The perceived value of these benefits is reflected in increased property values near transit stations. A study prepared in coordination with the National Association of Realtors concluded that home values performed 42 percent better on average if they were located near public transportation with high-frequency service. Further, public transit provides significant economic growth for surrounding communities. APTA estimates that every $1 invested in public transportation generates approximately $4 in economic returns. We can easily find examples of this return on investment in communities across the country. For instance, the Dallas Area Rapid Transit system has contributed to an economic boom in North Texas, with more than $7 billion in economic impact from new or planned construction within a quarter mile of rail stations. Recognizing these benefits, my district has been adamantly supporting the expansion and recapitalization of the commuter train system in Northwest Indiana, known as the South Shore Rail Line. I have always believed that Northwest Indiana is the best place in the world to live, work, visit, and raise a family. Unfortunately, families have not been moving to or staying in Northwest Indiana. From 1970 to 2015, the number of school age children in Northwest Indiana has dropped by over 74,000 children. Further, the population of Lake County, Indiana, has decreased by 10 percent, and the median income, adjusted for inflation, has decreased by 12.5 percent. The opposite is true for Lake County, Illinois. Both Lake Counties are on Lake Michigan and adjacent to Chicago. Yet in Illinois, the population of Lake County has increased by 83.9 percent, and the median income, adjusted for inflation, has increased by 17.7 percent. Part of the reason for this discrepancy is that young people want to be a part of the economic vibrancy of Chicago, but do not want to drive the commute from Northwest Indiana. In Illinois, there are over 400 miles of commuter rail that emanate from the Chicago Loop. In Indiana, there are barely 35 miles. Investing in the South Shore Rail Line will connect my constituents to Chicago’s $500 billion economy and nearly four million jobs. It will also allow us to begin to draw Chicago’s economic vibrancy to our region as we attract not only new residents, but also new businesses that are seeking locations that offer quality educational, recreational, and transportation opportunities for their employees and their families. Understanding these economic opportunities, 16 communities in Indiana’s First Congressional District have come together to dedicate a portion of their local economic development tax revenue towards the expansion of the South Shore Rail Line in Northwest Indiana. Vice President Pence, in his role as Governor of Indiana, signed legislation into law in 2015 providing for dedicated state funding to support this endeavor. These nonfederal dollars will match every federal dollar provided, multiplying the positive effects of the federal investment before we even begin to enumerate the economic development benefits to the region. I am proud of the progress that our region has made to invest in our commuter rail system. But the successful extension and recapitalization of the South Shore Rail Line and associated economic benefits in Northwest Indiana, along with other projects in communities throughout our country, depend on the availability of strong federal funding levels to support transit projects. I encourage you to keep these real world examples in mind as you continue to craft a fiscal blueprint for the upcoming Fiscal Year. Thank you for your time.
02.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the details of a “How Would You Balance the Federal Budget?” event with The Concord Coalition. What: Congressman Visclosky “How Would You Balance the Federal Budget?” Event with the Concord Coalition When: Wednesday - February 22, 2017 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. – Doors open at 5:30 p.m. Where: Valparaiso University – Harre Union 1509 Chapel Drive Valparaiso, IN 46383 Who: Any Northwest Indiana resident interested in participating in an exercise on how to balance the federal budget! There is no cost to participating in the budget exercise, but space is limited. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “There are tremendous challenges and difficult decisions that must be made in order to balance the federal budget. I hope that individuals will be able to take advantage of this unique exercise to weigh the pros and cons of budget decisions and consider how they impact current residents and future generations.” “Every opportunity for Americans to participate in an event that sparks ideas and conversations about the federal budget will surely make for more informed citizens in Northwest Indiana,” stated Mark A. Heckler, Ph.D., President of Valparaiso University. Phil LaRue, Senior Strategic Advisor at The Concord Coalition, stated, “This interactive exercise gives participants a sense of the hard choices and tradeoffs needed to build a budget that makes investments in the future. The Concord Coalition is pleased to join Congressman Visclosky for this event, as he has always been a champion of generationally-responsible budgets.” The Concord Coalition is a non-partisan organization dedicated to educating the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits and how to build a sound economy for future generations. To RSVP for this event, please contact Congressman Visclosky through his Merrillville office at 219-795-1844 or online at https://visclosky.house.gov/contact-pete/budget-rsvp. ###
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the statement below submitted in the Congressional Record on Black History Month. Mr. Speaker, it is with great respect that I rise today to celebrate Black History Month and its 2017 theme – ‘The Crisis in Black Education’. This year’s theme reflects on the crucial role of education in the past, present, and future of the African American community. As Americans, we come together to commend the many educators, writers, and mentors who have worked so diligently to improve educational opportunities for African American students throughout the country, but we must acknowledge that there is still much more progress to be made. Throughout American history, the unfortunate reality is that there have been racial barriers to equal education. The crisis in black education began during the era of slavery when it was against the law for slaves to learn how to read and write. Before the Civil War, free blacks in northern cities had to walk long distances to attend the one school regulated solely for African American students, while this limitation did not exist for white children. By 1910, segregation was established throughout the south. African American schools were of lower quality and received less government funding per student than in white schools. During the Civil Rights Movement, significant steps toward positive change were made, including the Supreme Court case of ‘Brown vs. Board of Education’, which outlawed segregated school facilities for black and white students at the state level. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 ended state and local laws requiring segregation. Today, many African American youth remain exposed to public school systems where resources are limited, overcrowding occurs, and a glaring racial achievement gap is evident, especially in urban areas. As Americans, we must continue to work together to resolve the crisis in black education as it is, without a doubt, one of the most critical issues facing our communities. This month and always, it is important that we honor and celebrate America’s greatest advocates for equal rights and civil liberties. Along with this month’s theme, we honor those who have fought for equal educational opportunities for African Americans, including Booker T. Washington, W.E.B. Du Bois, Cornell West, Maxine Smith, Carlotta Walls LaNier, Joe Lewis Clark, Fannie Jackson Coppin, and Alexander Crummell, among many others. As we pay tribute to these heroes of American history, let us remember their profound perseverance, sacrifice, and struggle in the fight for freedom and equality, and the remarkable impact their contributions have had in shaping our great nation. Mr. Speaker, I ask that you and my distinguished colleagues join me in celebrating Black History Month and honoring those who fought, and continue to fight, for civil rights and justice. We honor the African American educators, scholars, and supporters of educational equality, who have played such a critical role in changing the landscape of American society for the better. As we reflect on the state of black education, let us never forget the struggle of our predecessors while remembering that there is still much work to be done. ###
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the statement below on President Trump’s executive order to ban the entry of individuals from certain countries. “I am appalled by President Trump’s executive order and believe it is fundamentally inconsistent with our country’s value of inclusivity. It is wrong for the President to prioritize refugees based on their religious beliefs and deny the admittance of individuals from predominantly Muslim countries, including Syria, which is in the midst of an unimaginable humanitarian crisis. I also find it offensive that the President implies that a rigorous security vetting process is not already in place for immigrants and refugees. In fact, our current process is very stringent and it typically takes 18 to 24 months to screen and vet each refugee before he or she sets foot on American soil. I would agree that we should always look for ways to improve this process for the security of our country, but any changes should apply to all entrants, not just a selected few. Should any individual in the First Congressional District have concerns or need information about this or any other Trump Administration action and its potential impact on themselves or their family or loved ones, do not hesitate to contact my office anytime at 219-795-1844 or at www.visclosky.house.gov.” ###
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified at the International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on stainless steel sheet and strip from China. Below is a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Schmidtlein, Vice Chairman Johanson, members of the Commission, and all of your staff, for your continued work to strongly enforce American trade laws. I appreciate this opportunity to testify as part of today’s hearing regarding stainless steel sheet and strip from China. In 2016, I believe we took meaningful steps to ensure that trade with our foreign competitors is fair and equitable, and I look forward to continuing that work this year. In 2016, I testified before this Commission as you diligently deliberated in seven steel related cases, which involved a total of 18 countries. Also in 2016, Congress approved the second of two laws enacted in the 114th Congress that strengthen our trade remedy statutes. I am hopeful that these actions will provide meaningful long-term relief to American steel companies and steelworkers in my district in Northwest Indiana and throughout the nation. However, even today at the beginning of a new year, a new presidential administration, and a new Congress, we are dealing with the same violations of our trade laws from the same actors. That is why it is imperative that we remain vigilant in 2017. We should begin by carefully considering the case before us today. It is no secret that China has continually and blatantly violated our trade laws. Last year, I testified before you in three different steel cases involving Chinese imports, one of which resulted in duties upwards of 250 percent. The product we are discussing today, stainless steel sheet and strip, is a critical product utilized by numerous industries in the United States. This product is used by the automotive industry, the pipe and tube industry, and the chemical industry, as well as by construction professionals and appliance and industrial equipment manufacturers. The Department of Commerce has already indicated in its preliminary determinations just how egregious China’s actions are in this case by proposing dumping margins of up to 75 percent and subsidy rates of up to 193 percent. Further, Commerce’s decision to impose retroactive duties based on critical circumstances shows us that these companies have a long history of disregarding our trade laws. American steel companies and steelworkers producing stainless steel sheet and strip should not have to compete on an unfair playing field. That is why I strongly urge an affirmative determination in this case. I again thank you for your serious and thorough consideration of this case. I deeply appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony today and look forward to working with the Commission in the year ahead. ###
01.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) applaud the Trump Administration’s action to support American-made iron and steel products. Following the recent Presidential Memorandum requiring the usage of American-made steel and iron products in our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, Chairman Tim Murphy and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky released the following statements: Chairman Murphy stated, “For years we’ve worked for an American-first steel and energy agenda and it’s finally coming to fruition. This most recent action is a tremendous victory for domestic steel producers and pipe manufacturers. The Congressional Steel Caucus applauds any and all requirements that employ American-made steel and iron products, knowing that our domestic industries, and thousands of hardworking Americans, will get a much-needed boost.” Vice-Chairman Visclosky stated, “This is positive step forward for American steelworkers who should know without question that American taxpayer dollars are being used to buy American steel. The Congressional Steel Caucus has been adamant in our support for strong Buy America requirements, including the regulatory definition of ‘produced in the United States.’ We look forward to continuing to work with the executive branch to ensure that pipelines and all of the iron and steel used in American infrastructure projects are made in manufacturing communities across America.” For additional information about the Presidential Memorandum, click here. ###
12.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the following 2017 schedule for Town Forums that will be held throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. Saturday – January 7, 2017 10:00 a.m. Lake Station City Hall 1969 Central Avenue Lake Station, Indiana 46405 12:00 p.m. Portage Public Library 2665 Irving Street Portage, Indiana 46368 2:00 p.m. Valparaiso Public Library 103 Jefferson Street Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 4:00 p.m. Chesterton Town Hall 726 Broadway Chesterton, Indiana 46304 6:00 p.m. Michigan City – City Hall – Council Chambers 100 East Michigan Boulevard Michigan City, Indiana 46360 Sunday – January 8, 2017 12:00 p.m. Wicker Park Social Center 2215 Ridge Road Highland, Indiana 46322 2:00 p.m. Purdue University Northwest – Student Union Library Building – Room with a View 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323 4:00 p.m. St. John Township Community Center 1515 West Lincoln Highway Schererville, Indiana 46375 6:00 p.m. Crown Point Civic Center 101 South East Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 Monday – January 9, 2017 10:00 a.m. East Chicago City Hall – Council Chambers 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, Indiana 46312 12:00 p.m. Gary YWCA 150 West 15th Avenue Gary, Indiana 46407 2:00 p.m. Lake County Public Library 1919 West 81st Avenue Merrillville, Indiana 46410 Please note that all times listed are Central Standard Time. ###
12.16.2016	Washington, DC – Below are Congressman Pete Visclosky’s remarks on the announcement of the South Shore expansion Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS), as prepared for delivery. I want to thank NICTD, the FTA, the Army Corps of Engineers, Governor Pence, members of the Indiana General Assembly, particularly our Northwest Indiana delegation, and the local communities who have supported this investment in the future of our region and who have made today’s announcement possible. It is an important announcement and a key benchmark to expanding commuter rail in Northwest Indiana. However, there is more work to do. There remain four communities in Lake County that have yet to fully and financially commit to supporting this transformational investment. There is more work to do. There remains the request to the Federal Transit Administration for federal funds that must be prepared to our best ability, filed, and approved. There is more work to do. There are outstanding decisions and requests that must be made to support this expansion as a part of our efforts to establish a coordinated regional transportation system that includes the double tracking of the South Shore line from Gary to Michigan City and a robust bus network. I am proud to be here on a day that acknowledges our ability to make transformational investments when we collaborate and work together with the common purpose to create new jobs for current residents and future generations. But there is more work to do. Not next week or next year or in the next few months. There is more work to do right now. ###
12.09.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement submitted in the Congressional Record on Indiana’s Bicentennial: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the State of Indiana’s Bicentennial Anniversary. 200 years ago, on December 11, 1816, our great state was admitted to be a part of the United States of America, and I am so proud to call Indiana and its Northwest region my home. I believe that Northwest Indiana is the best place in the world to live, work, visit, study, and raise a family, and it is an honor and privilege to represent this area on the 200th Birthday of our state. I also want to thank my Indiana colleagues for establishing the time today to discuss this historic event. It is always a privilege to be able to work with you, along with Senator Coats and Senator Donnelly, on behalf of the issues that impact our great state. Our state and our region have a rich history in agriculture production, and in addition to the value of Indiana land, I believe that people have been drawn to Northwest Indiana because of the pristine beauty of our lakeshore and the Lake Michigan water. We are so fortunate to be situated along the largest body of fresh water on the planet. For 200 years, our shoreline has been an invaluable natural asset that has attracted people and has driven economic opportunities, and I have no doubt that it will continue to do so for the next 200 years and beyond. We also are fortunate that over a hundred years ago, businesses saw the value in the Northwest region of Indiana and decided to make investments to create unprecedented steel mills and oil refineries. It is because of these investments in Northwest Indiana that our steelworkers and steel mills are able to currently make the best and most efficient steel in the world. No other area of our country makes more steel than Northwest Indiana. Steel is the foundation of our economy, our national defense, and is essential for our transportation infrastructure. It has been an economic engine for our state this past century and we must continue to work to see that our industrial base and Indiana manufacturing continue to power us forward in future centuries. Finally, I am proud of all the hardworking people in Northwest Indiana and our state and the contributions that they have provided to our nation over the past 200 years. They have built transportation infrastructure in our state that connects rail, road, and waterway systems that traverse our nation. Our airports and ports along Lake Michigan serve as gateways to connect people and economic activity within our state to the rest of the world. Our Indiana National Guard servicemembers have also selflessly protected us every day of our past 200 years, including during the Civil War and the over 17,000 servicemembers who have been deployed overseas since September 11, 2001. Mr. Speaker, I ask you and my other distinguished colleagues to join me now in celebrating the vibrant history of Indiana’s steel and manufacturing industries, our unparalleled natural resources, and our industrious and courageous people, by wishing Indiana a very happy 200th Birthday. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Below is the statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Ranking Democrat on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, from today’s House consideration of the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution, as prepared for delivery. I thank the Ranking Member for yielding me time. I am sorely disappointed that despite the very best efforts of Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, and the members of our committee, we yet again find ourselves in the position of considering another Continuing Resolution (CR). In June, during the debate on the House floor for H.R. 5293, the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Act, I expressed my concerns with that bill because it did not provide enough funding to support the warfighter for the full fiscal year. Specifically, I stated that our “fiscal year begins on October 1, 2016, not May 1, 2017, and it is the responsibility of those of us holding office in the 2nd session of the 114th Congress to execute the FY 2017 appropriations process,” and that we should demonstrate some legislative pragmatism and not foist our responsibility upon the 115th Congress. Unfortunately, almost exactly six-months later, it is appropriate to repeat myself. Only in this circumstance it is applicable to nearly the entire federal government and not just a small portion of the Defense Appropriations Bill. With regards to the CR, I grant that it has some positive aspects. Most notably it averts a government shutdown until at least April 28, 2017. It provides much needed funding to the Department of Defense for Overseas Contingency Operations and the European Reassurance Initiative. And it contains $170 million to address the infrastructure and health needs of those communities affected by contaminated drinking water. However, CRs are no way to run a nation and I wholeheartedly agree with Ranking Member Lowey that there is no practical reason that two months into a fiscal year, we are kicking the can down the road for another five months. Congress has no credibility to demand good government if it is incapable of providing appropriations to the whole of the federal government in a timely and predictable manner. As the Ranking Member on the Defense Subcommittee, I feel it is important to highlight some of the complications we are compounding in 2017 should the Department of Defense have to operate under a CR for a total of 6 months and 28 days. First, CRs hinder the DoD from adapting to emerging conditions around the globe. Although we are including a few anomalies and adjustments in this CR, many more programs and initiatives simply did not make the “cut-list” and we will have created unforeseen but real impacts to our warfighters and their families. Second, the defense budget we are deferring was planned for back in late 2015. Our actions to complete the FY 2017 appropriations by April 28, 2017, will be challenged in synchronizing a final budget solution that is at a minimum 16 months later than when it was drafted and planned by the Defense Department. Third, it will require a significant amount of interchange with the DoD for Congress to complete the work on the remainder of the FY 2017 appropriations in the spring. Those same individuals and offices in the Department will simultaneously be making adjustments to the FY 2018 budget for the new administration. And while it is likely that the FY 2018 budget request will be delayed beyond the normal first Tuesday in February delivery, the two activities will overlap significantly, which is incredibly inefficient. Let me just further that thought by acknowledging that the Department will be well into their development of the FY 2019 budget at that same time. They will be presenting the FY 2018 budget to this Congress. And patiently waiting for the resolution of this FY 2017 budget. All the while operating at FY 2016 levels that we extended in two consecutive CRs because we cannot find the initiative and political will to complete our jobs. And this CR has the likelihood of being particularly disruptive because it also coincides with a change in the Executive Branch. As has been pointed out, no incoming Administration has ever had to inherit a Department of Defense operating under a CR. So while claiming to recognize the difficulty a new President faces by including a provision to allow the expedited consideration in the Senate of legislation that overrides current law in the appointment of the next Secretary of Defense, we add a much greater burden to the incoming administration and Congress by not completing the FY 2017 Appropriation process. I understand that Chairman Rogers has described the legislation before us as just a Band-Aid to give us time to complete the annual appropriations process. That is unfortunately a refrain we have heard too often in recent Congresses. In what fiscal year will we stop putting Band-Aids over our self-inflicted wounds to the appropriations process? The American people deserve so much more. In closing, I regret that we again find ourselves on the House floor creating manufactured uncertainty. It is imperative that we bring an end to the reliance on CRs and get back into the habit of completing our budgetary work in a timely manner. I thank the Ranking Member for yielding. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, DC - Below are Congressman Pete Visclosky’s prepared remarks from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate. I want to thank Chairman Williamson and all other members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff, for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate from twelve countries, including Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey. I am proud to represent the First Congressional District of Indiana, which is the largest steel producing Congressional District in the country. In my District, ArcelorMittal’s plate mill in Burns Harbor produces the product we are discussing today, which is used to protect our national defense and build our infrastructure. I cannot emphasize enough how critical cut-to-length plate is to the security of this nation. This product is used to make armor vests that protect our military personnel. It is used to build ships and aircraft carriers that secure our national defense. In fact, of the roughly 50,000 tons of steel plate required for the construction of an aircraft carrier, ArcelorMittal supplies the majority of the steel, of which half is manufactured and produced in Burns Harbor. I encourage you to continue to be vigilant and ensure that every single country that attempts to violate our trade laws is held accountable for their actions. American steel companies and steelworkers are currently fighting for their survival against illegal imports. Many countries have spent the last several years building their production capacity through illegal subsidies and state-owned enterprises that have unlimited financial resources. For far too long, this steel has been finding its way to be illegally dumped in our market, to the detriment of our steel industry. I appreciate the diligent work the Commission has done to investigate illegal steel imports and to utilize new tools provided by Congress to determine material injury in these cases. We are making progress, but we have more work to do. I urge you to recognize the material injury caused by imports of cut-to-length plate to domestic steel producers throughout the nation. Steel production is the foundation of the economy of Northwest Indiana. It is the foundation of our national defense. It is the foundation of our infrastructure. This case is not only a matter of cracking down on illegal trade practices and holding countries that cheat accountable, it is a matter of national security and should be treated with the utmost scrutiny. American steelworkers make the best steel in the world, and we should without doubt be using the plate that they produce to protect our citizens and our military service members. I thank you all for the opportunity to testify here today and appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. ###
11.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), along with 41 other members of the Caucus, have called on U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Commissioner Kerlikowske to fully utilize trade enforcement tools provided by Congress. Detailed in a letter, given growing concerns regarding global excess capacity, Congress passed and the President signed into law P.L. 114-125, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, which provides CBP with new tools and authorities to increase enforcement of U.S. trade law at our borders. The Steel Caucus letter was written in response to concerns over the recent non-initiation of an investigation requested under the new authorities of the alleged duty evasion of Circular Welded Carbon Quality Steel Pipe from China. The Steel Caucus is concerned that the failure to aggressively investigate and initiate allegations of trade cheats will incite foreign competitors to continue to evade our trade laws and deter domestic producers from filing evasion claims. Chairman Murphy stated, “The Congressional Steel Caucus has spearheaded the strong legislative remedies passed by Congress, now law, that improve efforts to combat unfair trade practices by foreign trade cheats like China. But our efforts will only work if federal agencies like CBP use all of the enforcement and monitoring tools we’ve provided to stop the evasion schemes at our borders. The Steel Caucus will continue to stand up for American steel producers and we urge the Administration to do the same by upholding the new trade laws.” Vice-Chairman Visclosky stated, “It is disappointing that CPB has not allowed the legislative achievement of the Congressional Steel Caucus and Congress to come to fruition. This law is designed to prevent unscrupulous actions on our borders and it must be fully enforced. I will continue to work to ensure that we are doing everything possible under our trade laws to support and defend American steelworkers and steel-producing communities.” Below are the text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version. Dear Commissioner Kerlikowske: As members of the Congressional Steel Caucus we encourage you to fully utilize the trade enforcement tools provided to you by Congress to aggressively combat illegal trade practices that threaten the American steel pipe and tube industry and the communities that they serve. The U.S. steel industry is facing a global overcapacity crisis and the need for strong enforcement at our nation’s borders has never been greater. Data from the Government Accountability Office estimates that between 2001 and 2014, there was $2.3 billion in uncollected antidumping (AD) and countervailing duties (CVD) by federal agencies for a variety of types of products. The influx of foreign imports coupled with the lack of enforcement resources at our federal agencies is devastating American steel companies and the communities that they serve. Given growing concerns regarding global excess capacity, Congress passed and the President signed into law P.L. 114-125, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, which provides CBP with new tools and authorities to increase enforcement of U.S. trade law at our borders. Specifically, the Congressional Steel Caucus worked vigorously to include the Enforce and Protect Act (EAPA) in P.L. 114-125 so your agency would have a transparent process for domestic petitioners to submit allegations of fraud and duty evasion by foreign competitors. The intent of this provision and trade law is to improve CBP’s ability to fully investigate allegations of evasion to prevent further injury that is a result of unfair trade practices by foreign competitors. Foreign competitors, such as China, use increasingly deceptive and fraudulent tactics to evade appropriate duties as their steel products enter the U.S. market. We are aware of the recent investigation of the alleged duty evasion of Circular Welded Carbon Quality Steel Pipe (CWP) from China and are concerned about the CBP’s non-initiation determination and what this will mean for U.S. steel pipe producers and the communities that they serve. As noted in the claim, it was alleged that over $80 million in duties were not collected and further, these CWP imports prevented an opportunity for U.S. steel pipe producers to serve valued customers. We are concerned that the result of this decision may deter other parties from filing EAPA claims as a way to seek trade remedy relief. Therefore, we implore you to fully utilize all the enforcement and monitoring tools provided under this new trade law to ensure that all imported products covered by AD/CVD duties are entered in compliance of current law. This is essential to ensure that American companies and workers receive the full benefits of this important law. We are concerned that failure to aggressively investigate and initiate allegations of trade cheats will incite foreign competitors to continue to evade our trade laws and deter domestic producers from filing evasion claims. We appreciate your attention to this critical matter and look forward to working with you to ensure that the American steel industry and steelworkers are afforded every opportunity under U.S. laws to compete on a level playing field. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) Vice-Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Richard M. Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Pete Aguilar (R-CA) Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (R-OH) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA) Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA) Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL) Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Terri A. Sewell (D-AL) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA) Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Glenn 'GT' Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Robert A. Aderholt (R-AL) Steel Caucus Letter to Customs 11.28.16.pdf ###
11.01.2016	Indianapolis, Ind. — Today, U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly, U.S. Senator Dan Coats, and U.S. Representative Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Julián Castro calling for a timely review and approval of the City of East Chicago’s application for emergency funding. The request from Donnelly, Coats, and Visclosky comes as part of the response to more than 1,000 residents being affected by the dangerous levels of lead and arsenic in the surrounding soil of the West Calumet Housing Complex. Donnelly, Coats, and Visclosky said in their letter, in part, “As you are aware, the City of East Chicago recently submitted an application for Emergency Capital Funds to ensure the safety and security of the site and, ultimately, the demolition of the housing structures. It is evident from our weekly discussions with HUD and the City that these funds are central to providing a long-term solution to address the public health crisis. As such, we respectfully request that HUD move quickly, consistent with U.S. law and public policy, to approve the Emergency Capital Funds for the City of East Chicago.” The signed letter and full text are below. November 1, 2016 The Honorable Julián Castro Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 Seventh Street SW Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Castro, Thank you for your efforts to date working to relocate the more than 1,000 residents affected by the dangerous levels of lead and arsenic in the soil of the West Calumet Housing Complex in East Chicago, Indiana. As you are aware, the City of East Chicago recently submitted an application for Emergency Capital Funds to ensure the safety and security of the site and, ultimately, the demolition of the housing structures. It is evident from our weekly discussions with HUD and the City that these funds are central to providing a long-term solution to address the public health crisis. As such, we respectfully request that HUD move quickly, consistent with U.S. law and public policy, to approve the Emergency Capital Funds for the City of East Chicago. Thank you again for your response and actions thus far. We stand ready to continue working with you to ensure the health and safety of the residents of East Chicago. Sincerely, Joe Donnelly U.S. Senator Dan Coats U.S. Senator Peter J. Visclosky U.S. Representative 161101 Letter to HUD on East Chicago Emergency Funding.pdf
10.25.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) sent another letter to the United States Department of Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker in support of domestic steel plate producers in the pending trade case involving carbon and alloy steel “cut-to-length” (CTL) plate from 12 foreign competitors, including China. In the letter, Chairman Murphy and Vice-Chairman Visclosky outline the critical importance of the outcome of this trade case for the health of the domestic CTL plate industry. Domestic steel producers and American steelworkers currently face an unprecedented surge in unfairly traded imports. Specifically, the domestic industry filed an antidumping and countervailing duty case in April of this year against imports of CTL plate from Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey. Last year, nearly one million tons of CTL plate, valued at more than $700 million, was imported from these countries. In the letter, Chairman Murphy and Vice-Chairman Visclosky outline the critical importance of the outcome of this trade case for American CTL plate industry, writing: “We encourage the Department of Commerce to ensure that foreign competitors’ unfair trade practices do not continue to injure an already weakened industry. While the American steel industry recently obtained much-needed trade relief on imports of corrosion-resistant, cold-rolled, and hot-rolled steel, U.S. steel producers continue to suffer from an onslaught of imports, including of carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate.” This past year, the Congressional Steel Caucus shepherded historic trade enforcement legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk. The newly enacted laws provide the Department of Commerce, along with the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, with the legal foundation and enforcement tools needed to fight back against illegal trading practices being used by foreign cheaters that are squarely aimed to destroy the American steel industry. The full text of the letter is below. -- October 25, 2016 The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Pritzker, We are writing to express our strong support for domestic steel plate producers and American steelworkers in the pending trade case involving carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length (“CTL”) plate from Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey. As Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we encourage the Department of Commerce (Commerce) to ensure that foreign competitors’ unfair trade practices do not continue to injure an already weakened industry. While the American steel industry recently obtained much-needed trade relief on imports of corrosion-resistant, cold-rolled, and hot-rolled steel, U.S. steel producers continue to suffer from an onslaught of imports, including of carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length (“CTL”) plate. Facing an unprecedented surge in unfairly traded imports, the domestic industry filed an antidumping and countervailing duty case in April of this year against imports of CTL plate from Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey. Last year, nearly one million tons of CTL plate, valued at more than $700 million, was imported from these countries. The outcome of this case is absolutely critical to the health of the domestic CTL plate industry. Congress has worked hard to give Commerce new tools to evaluate trade remedy cases, including enhanced discretion to apply adverse facts available where companies or their governments have failed to cooperate. It is critical that Commerce utilize these tools in calculating the appropriate level of duties in the ongoing CTL plate investigations. On behalf of the domestic CTL plate industry and the workers and families who depend on the full and fair enforcement of our trade laws, we ask you to give careful consideration to their arguments in your upcoming preliminary determinations. Thank you in advance for your consideration of these critical issues. Steel Caucus Letter to Commerce on CTL Plate.pdf ###
10.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement in response to the announcement that LaPorte County and Marion County have been added to the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). “I am proud to have worked since day one to secure and support a federal HIDTA designation for Lake County, and the subsequent addition of Porter County. I am pleased today that by expanding the Lake County HIDTA to include LaPorte and Marion Counties, we will be able to further improve our ability to regionally coordinate federal funding and intelligence resources to address the transportation corridors of drug traffickers and keep our communities safe.” ###
10.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified for the seventh time this year at the International Trade Commission (ITC). The hearing today was regarding circular welded carbon-quality steel pipe. Below are a copy of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks as prepared for delivery and a pdf of the referenced letter to the Commission signed by Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Congressman Visclosky. "I want to thank Chairman Williamson, Vice Chairman Johanson, and all other members of the Commission, for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving circular welded carbon-quality steel pipe from Oman, Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam. "As you are well aware, the steel import crisis is perilously threatening the livelihoods of the dedicated workers in steel communities throughout our nation. The recent influx of illegal steel imports has prompted the initiation of nine steel trade cases, and today I am testifying here at the ITC for the seventh time this year. It is my sincere hope that as the weather turns and we end the summer of steel, we can move forward now into the fall of fair trade. "Specific to today’s case, circular welded carbon-quality steel pipe is used across our country in a variety of manufacturing purposes, including construction, fencing, sprinkler, and heating systems. And while it is currently made in a variety of locations across our country, including California, Missouri, Ohio, Illinois, and Pennsylvania, I deeply regret that it used to be made in additional plants in Illinois and Pennsylvania, as well as in plants that are now idled or closed in Arizona and Iowa. It is past time that we send the message to the countries involved in this case, and all countries around the world, that we will not tolerate illegal steel imports. "Additionally, on behalf of Rep. Tim Murphy and myself, as the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I would like to officially submit into the proceedings a letter we have signed that expresses our strong support for the domestic steel pipe and tube industry in this case. The letter notes that we are acutely aware of the real-world impacts of illegal imports on American steelworkers and steel producers, and that steel communities across our country are experiencing the devastating impacts of illegal imports. Additionally, the letter states that American steel producers and workers just want to compete on a level playing field, and we owe them the opportunity to do so. The letter further urges you to recognize the material injury that circular welded carbon-quality steel pipe imports have caused to the domestic steel industry and to hold the countries involved accountable for their illegal actions. "Again, I appreciate the opportunity to testify today, and I thank you and the dedicated staff for your diligent and thorough consideration of the facts of this case." Murphy.Visclosky.CWP_.pdf ###
10.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the City of Hobart has received a grant award under the Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. The COPS Hiring Program provides funding directly to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies for the hiring and rehiring of entry-level career law enforcement officers in an effort to create and preserve jobs and increase community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. The City of Hobart will receive funding for one officer with a focus of addressing drug abuse issues. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I applaud the City of Hobart for successfully seeking out and obtaining this COPS grant award. Every single officer in the force helps to keep our communities safe and secure, and I am pleased that Hobart will be able to utilize the resources of the valuable federal program.” City of Hobart Mayor Brian Snedecor stated, “We want to thank Congressman Visclosky and his staff for their assistance in securing this grant. The City of Hobart believes that the surest way to build bridges to the community is by getting officers out on the street. The COPS Hiring Program helps us insure that the Hobart Police Department has the officers available when our citizens need support.” For additional information on the COPS Hiring Grant Program, click here. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Visclosky announced that he has introduced legislation to designate the Northwest Indiana lakeshore as a National Park. Specifically, the legislation would retitle the “Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore” as the “Indiana Dunes National Park”. The designation would create the first National Park in Indiana and the 60th National Park in the United States. The intent of this legislation is to allow the dunes lakeshore to receive the full tourism benefits and recognition of being designated a National Park. Due to the vast biological diversity and geological features of the Northwest Indiana lakeshore, the first Director of the National Park Service, Mr. Stephen Mather, proposed designating the southern shore of Lake Michigan as the “Sand Dunes National Park” in 1916. Unfortunately, this proposal was abandoned at the onset of World War I. Congressman Visclosky has long supported the preservation of and improved access to the Northwest Indiana lakeshore through the Marquette Plan. The three principles of the Marquette Plan are first, that 75 percent of the lakeshore should be available for free, open, and public use, second, that development should be set back by a minimum of 200 feet from the water, and third, that there should be a continuous biking and walking trail parallel to the shoreline for all Northwest Indiana residents to enjoy. Additionally, in 1986 and 1992, Congressman Visclosky introduced measures that were both signed into law and expanded the boundaries of the current Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. The measure has been introduced with the support of the entire Indiana House delegation as original cosponsors, and it is currently pending consideration in the House Committee on Natural Resources. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “The recognition of being a National Park is the final step of an effort that began a century ago. It is past time that the rest of the nation recognizes the environmental wonder and significance of the lakeshore dunes in Northwest Indiana. I thank my Indiana House colleagues and all the Northwest Indiana community leaders and officials for supporting this initiative that will ultimately attract more visitors and further stimulate our regional economy.” “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a treasured source of beauty and recreation for Hoosier families,” Congresswoman Jackie Walorski said. “Making it our state’s first National Park will boost the Indiana economy by drawing more tourists from across the country who want to explore the dunes.” Tom Conway, President of Save the Dunes, stated, “One hundred years ago, the first public meeting took place to explore the possibility of a Sand Dunes National Park along the southern shore of Lake Michigan. The Indiana Dunes are a treasure of beauty and ecology. We feel the title of Indiana Dunes National Park will bring increased attention and appreciation to this amazing place, and we commend Congressman Visclosky for always being a champion of the Dunes.” Speros Batistatos, President and CEO of the South Shore Convention and Visitors Authority, stated, “Millions of visitors are drawn to the Indiana dunes because of its diverse landscapes and recreational opportunities. Residents of the South Shore know what a treasure the park is and the distinction of a National Park will give it the national recognition it deserves.” Jack Arnett, Executive Director of the LaPorte County Convention and Visitors Bureau, stated, “The retitling of IDNL and properly designating the property as the first and only National Park in Indiana is a huge plus for the region. I thank Congressman Visclosky for once again continuing his leadership role when it comes to understanding the economic impact that tourism has within our region.” Lorelei Weimer, Executive Director for Indiana Dunes Tourism, stated, “We are excited to learn that Congressman Pete Visclosky has introduced this bill. People love to visit our national parks and many travelers include visiting all of the national parks on their bucket lists. Many potential new visitors will add the Indiana Dunes National Park to their travel to do list because they will now know we are one of the National Parks.” ###
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Visclosky announced that the Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has moved the South Shore expansion forward into the Project Development phase. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I am excited to learn that the FTA has recognized the value of the South Shore expansion through this designation. It is another successful step forward to not just expand South Shore service, but to build a regional economy that provides innumerable benefits for current Northwest Indiana residents and future generations. I have no doubt that the success of this designation is due to the resilient efforts of NICTD, as well as the RDA, the State of Indiana, and all of the contributing communities. Their collective support has generated this outstanding forward momentum. I will continue to work very hard to support the efforts to have commuter trains running on the new expanded track as soon as possible.” Michael Noland, President of NICTD, stated, “This is great news. We have been working closely with the Congressman’s office, the FTA, and communities that would be served by the West Lake Corridor and look forward to advancing the project through the environmental and preliminary engineering process. Improving access to jobs by making commuter rail service faster and more convenient will lay the ground work for new private development throughout the region.” Bill Hanna, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority, stated, “This is a key step toward completion of the West Lake expansion of the South Shore line. We are now closer than ever before to the largest commuter rail investment in Indiana history – an investment that will create thousands of jobs in Northwest Indiana and provide world-class access to Chicago, the ninth-largest economy on the planet. We are grateful for the support of Congressman Visclosky, the State of Indiana and the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District in this endeavor, and look forward to continuing to work together to see the new line through to completion.” For additional information on the FTA grant process, click here. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC - Below are the prepared remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on welded stainless steel pressure pipe. I want to thank Chairman Williamson, Vice Chairman Johanson, all other members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving welded stainless steel pressure pipe from India. Today is the fifth time I have testified before you in an antidumping and countervailing duty case in 2016. I am encouraged that the Commission has demonstrated an ongoing commitment to the diligent consideration of these cases, and I appreciate the continued opportunity to participate in those deliberations. However, I am concerned by how similar the facts of many of these cases seem to be and how consistently certain countries continue to violate our trade laws. Of the five cases I have testified in this year, this is the third involving products from India. Our foreign competitors are not backing down and we must not either. The effect of these repeated trade law violations on the domestic pipe and tube market is glaringly evident. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that 4,000 steel jobs were lost in 2015. Additionally, in 2015 imports captured 65 percent of the pipe and tube market share, an 11 percent increase from 2014. In that same time frame, domestic exports decreased by 38 percent. I encourage the Commission to continue to send a strong message to these countries that their unfair trade practices will not be tolerated and that if they continue to violate our trade laws they will be swiftly and significantly reprimanded. The product we are discussing today, welded stainless steel pressure pipe, serves as a critical component in the processing of many essential products, including food, oil and gas, paper, and petrochemicals. This product is used particularly in corrosive environments, high temperature and pressure conditions, and in conditions that demand exceptionally high ease of maintenance and cleanliness. It is also used in nuclear power plants and liquefied natural-gas facilities. Ensuring that the highest quality, most reliable stainless steel pressure pipe products are being used in these cases is a matter of public safety. We cannot afford to use inferior products in such important elements of our energy infrastructure. American steelworkers make the best steel in the world, and they deserve to compete on a fair playing field with foreign competitors. On September 8, 2016, the Congressional Steel Caucus, of which I am the Vice Chairman, convened a round table with Ambassador Froman and Secretary Pritzker to discuss challenges facing the domestic steel industry. I appreciated their willingness to have this discussion and the efforts of the current administration to address illegal steel imports. Secretary Pritzker and Ambassador Froman highlighted the efforts of the Administration to convene a Global Forum on steel and the current enforcement actions being taken against countries that violate our trade laws. This Commission plays a critical role in holding these countries accountable and ensuring that our domestic producers have a fair chance to compete. It was a productive conversation, but we must do more and we must continue to be vigilant. In conclusion, I urge you to recognize the material injury caused by these imports. Indian steel producers have proven time and time again that they are unwilling to follow our trade laws. We must prove that time and time again we will hold them accountable for their illegal actions and act to protect American steelworkers and steel producers who are playing by the rules. I thank you all for the opportunity to testify here today and appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. ###
09.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded a grant for the Michigan City Municipal-Phillips Field Airport. The $150,000 grant award will fund an environmental assessment of any potential environmental impact related to relocating US Highway 20 to improve the runway safety area. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “Michigan City has consistently made progress to invest in their transportation infrastructure and invigorate their economy. I commend them on this latest investment in the airport that will continue to create benefits for current residents and draw new visitors to their great community.” Michigan City Mayor Ron Meer stated, “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for ensuring funding for the FAA Airport Improvement Program remains steadfast. I also want to thank FAA and the INDOT Office of Aviation as this funding allows our city to take another essential step forward in keeping our airfield safe for general aviation traffic.” For additional information on the FAA grant program, click here. ###
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Department of Transportation’s Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has awarded a grant to improve the East Chicago Train Station. The $2,698,028 grant has been awarded to the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) and will be used to improve access to the existing platform at the East Chicago Train Station. The goal of the project is to reduce congestion and improve safety. According to the Department of Transportation, approximately 12,000 commuters utilize the South Shore Rail Line during an average workday, and East Chicago is the most utilized station on the South Shore Rail Line. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate NICTD and the City of East Chicago for their initiative to secure funding for this invaluable project. There is a great momentum growing to improve and expand the transportation infrastructure of Northwest Indiana. This grant is the latest example of the transformational investments that are occurring that will have countless benefits for all the current residents in our communities and the next generation.” City of East Chicago Mayor Anthony Copeland stated, “Improving the East Chicago Train Station will enhance our economic development and benefit every resident and visitor to our great City. I thank NICTD and Congressman Visclosky for their continued strong support for East Chicago.” Michael Noland, President of NICTD, stated, “This is very welcome news to the South Shore’s 3,500 daily passengers that use the East Chicago Train Station. It’s extremely important that we find a solution to the single access way to the platform and we cannot thank Congressman Visclosky enough for helping us to address this need.” For additional information on the FRA grant program, click here. ###
09.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) convened a meeting with other Steel Caucus members and Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker and United States Trade Representative Michael Froman to discuss global steel issues. The roundtable meeting included discussions regarding Administration actions to address global steel overcapacity, including the enforcement of U.S. trade laws and the implementation of P.L. 114-27, the Trade Preferences Extension Act, and P.L. 114-125, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act. Chairman Murphy stated, “I appreciate Ambassador Froman and Secretary Pritzker for their time and am grateful for their shared commitment to protecting our national economy. While the conversation today was productive, the bottom line remains: we can get a better deal than the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). The United States is currently facing the greatest steel import crisis in modern history, with more than 13,500 direct layoffs in the steel industry – including in Pennsylvania’s 18th district. This is unacceptable. American industry and workers deserve a trade deal with accountability, enforcement, and oversight. As it stands right now, TPP falls short on all three accounts. I will continue to work to ensure our industries are protected from foreign competitors, like China, who evade U.S. trade laws.” “I thank Secretary Pritzker and Ambassador Froman for taking the time to discuss steel issues that are of paramount importance to the sustainability and growth of American steel producers and that impact our national economy and our national security,” said Vice-Chairman Visclosky. “I appreciate their commitment to enforcing our trade laws and their initiative to recently establish a Global Forum with foreign countries to discuss steel issues. Discussions are good, but actions are better, and I will continue to work every day with Chairman Murphy and other members of the Steel Caucus to ensure that American steelworkers can continue to make the best steel in the world.” ###
09.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) introduced a House resolution that calls on the Administration to take action regarding non-market economy (NME) countries in order to protect American jobs and our nation’s economic security. America’s manufacturing sector and economic security are under attack from an onslaught of illegally traded imports from NME countries, including China. The market-distorting policies of these countries and their subsidization of key commodities, such as aluminum, cement, cotton, synthetic fiber, PET resin, specialty chemicals, iron, and steel, have created challenging conditions for U.S. companies, workers, and communities. As a result of these illegal trading practices, American manufacturing has been unable to compete on a level playing field. The House resolution calls on the Administration to provide for the full and effective application of U.S. anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws against NME countries, such as China, and to retain the status of any country currently designated as a NME until it meets all of the criteria for treatment as a market economy established under current law. The resolution also calls on NME countries to eliminate all direct and indirect subsidies and other market-distorting government policies benefitting the production and export of goods to the United States, and to enter into binding and enforceable agreements for removing excess production capacity and withdrawing state intervention in and control over their economies. The resolution was introduced with 23 additional bipartisan original cosponsors, including Rep. Bost (R-IL), Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL), Rep. Byrne (R-AL), Rep. Carson (D-IN), Rep. Costello (R-PA), Rep. Crawford (R-AR), Rep. Dent (R-PA), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Harper (R-MS), Rep. Hudson (R-NC), Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC), Rep. Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Lipinski (D-IL), Rep. Loebsack (D-IA), Rep. McCollum (D-MN), Rep. Nolan (D-MN), Rep. Pittenger (R-NC), Rep. McKinley (R-WV), Rep. Reed (R-NY), Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Rep. Sewell (D-AL), and Rep. Tipton (R-CO). The measure also has the support of the Manufacturers for Trade Enforcement Coalition, which is a coalition of U.S. industry groups, including the American Iron and Steel Institute and the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “Hardworking American workers continue to pay the price for not taking action to hold China, and other foreign competitors, accountable for their clear abuse of U.S. trade laws. Millions of dollars go uncollected, thousands of jobs are lost, and American industries continue to suffer. This is unacceptable,” said Chairman Murphy. “I am proud to stand with my colleagues today to introduce this resolution. We need stronger deals that protect our economy and our workers.” Vice-Chairman Visclosky stated, “American communities rely on the superb work of steelworkers and manufacturers to build the foundation of their economic security, and they deserve to compete in our global economy on a level playing field. It is past time that action is taken to stop the illegal trading practices of China and other non-market economy countries.” “We are grateful to Rep. Murphy and Rep. Visclosky, and members of the Steel Caucus, for working to ensure there is a level playing field for domestic steel manufacturers – which includes making sure China is not granted market economy status this year. China maintains state control over many critical aspects of its economy, including key strategic industries like steel. It is clear that China has not met criteria to be designated a market economy. Prematurely granting China market economy status would completely undermine the effectiveness of our trade laws and further harm our industry,” said Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute. Scott Paul, president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, stated, “For years China has promised to make changes to its state-sponsored economy, and for years Beijing has played by its own rules instead. We want to commend the Congressional Steel Caucus leadership for looking out for our manufacturing workers by offering this important resolution.” MES Resolution 8.23.16.pdf ###
09.01.2016	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) have called on President Obama to address the illegal trading practices of China and the growing global steel overcapacity crisis at the upcoming Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Forum in Paris and the G20 Summit in China. Detailed in a letter, Chairman Murphy and Vice Chairman Visclosky stated that China’s illegal trade practices have resulted in mill closures, idling, and the laying off thousands of hard-working Americans throughout the nation. The letter highlighted the need to address issues related to currency manipulation, illegal government subsidies, state-owned enterprises, China’s non-market economy status, and cyber warfare. The letter further stated that China’s broken promises and continued strategy of undercutting American workers must be met with a multi-pronged strategy to ensure the future prosperity of the domestic steel sector. Below are the text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version. September 1, 2016 The Honorable Barrack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, D.C.20500 Dear Mr. President, We write today as leaders of the Congressional Steel Caucus to request that you utilize the upcoming G20 Summit in Hangzhou, China, and the OECD Forum in Paris, to address the illegal trading practices of China and the growing global steel overcapacity crisis. We understand that you are closely monitoring the glut of Chinese steel that is flooding the global marketplace and are seeking to hold China accountable for its illegal actions. We appreciate your recent commitment to reduce excess steel capacity and urge you to use the G20 Summit and OECD Forum to continue building international support for the development of clear consequences for China’s role in the steel overcapacity crisis. New research by the Alliance for American Manufacturing and the Center on Globalization, Governance & Competitiveness at Duke University, Overcapacity in Steel: China’s Role in a Global Problem, outlines the scope of the problem in blunt terms: “The global steel sector is once again in a state of overcapacity. The sector, predominantly fueled by China’s expansion since 2000, has grown to over 2,300 million metric tons (MT) while only needing 1,500 MT to meet global demand.” The report’s analysis of the problem clearly singles out China, which has both publicly acknowledged its responsibility for the problem and made numerous promises to the United States to curb production of cut-price steel and other commodities. Unfortunately, these promises have not been upheld. The resulting onslaught of illegally traded Chinese steel has resulted in mill closures, idling, and the laying off thousands of hard-working Americans throughout the nation. Since the start of 2015, the United States’ steel industry has lost more than 14,500 direct jobs and approximately 91,000 indirect jobs as a result of this import crisis. This is unacceptable. The United States has the most talented workforce in the world, but we cannot compete against China when they refuse to trade on a level playing field with American producers. We request that you and your administration specifically address the issues below with President Xi Jinping and other leaders at the G20 Summit and OECD Forum early this month. Currency Manipulation – China is a known currency manipulator that uses its currency to gain unfair competitive advantages over its trading partners, including the United States. The nation’s currency manipulation makes its exports to the United States cheaper and makes U.S. exports to China more expensive – contributing significantly to our unprecedented trade imbalances with China. In 2015, the United States trade deficit was a record $366 billion according to the United States Trade Representative. The U.S. has lost an upwards of five million jobs as a result of currency manipulation by China and other foreign competitors and we cannot afford to lose any more without putting our manufacturing industry at greater risk. Illegal Government Subsidies – Chinese steel producers are propped up by the Chinese government through common subsidies such as cash grants, capital infusions, tax payment subsidies, and preferential loans. The vast amount of government support has given rise to smog-choked steel cities that have reached colossal levels of productions. These illegal government subsidies have helped Chinese producers offset business expenses so they can increase their production capacity. For example, the Department of Commerce recently issued the collection of AD/CVD duty deposits up to 248 percent to counter the government subsidies that five Chinese exporters received. This demonstrates that the illegal government subsidization is a direct threat to domestic producers and the steel industry’s stability. State-Owned Enterprises - Approximately 95 percent of steel produced by the 25 leading steel companies in China comes from state-owned enterprises at the local, regional, and national level. Chinese President Xi Jinping vowed to overhaul the country’s state-owned enterprises and replace them with private firms when taking office in 2013, however, state-owned enterprises still continue to play a dominate role in Chinese steel production and the Chinese economy. China’s Non-Market Economy Status – Beijing continues to play a direct role in nearly all aspects of China’s economy, including the financial system, upstream resource and energy sectors, and through ownership and control of many strategic industries. In fact, many observers believe that China is sliding backwards on many of the economic reforms it has promised. Put simply, China does not share our free market principles and its requests for market economy treatment should be rejected outright until it demonstrates that it meets all of the criteria for treatment as a “market economy” under U.S. law. Cyber Warfare – China’s state support of cyber warfare against private sector companies, including American steel producers, threatens our businesses’ intellectual property rights and greatly undermines the stability of the U.S. electrical grid. The Department of Justice has previously charged the Chinese Government with gaining illegal access to trade secrets, including those of domestic steel producers. This type of illegal activity harms our national economic and security interests, and it must stop. China’s legacy of broken promises and continued strategy of undercutting American workers must be met with a multi-pronged strategy to ensure the future prosperity of our domestic steel sector. This must include proactive, aggressive enforcement of America’s trade remedy laws, seeking international consensus to holding Beijing to its word that it will take swift steps to reduce excess overcapacity, maintaining China’s non-market economy status, and working to encourage demand at home with important investments in our crumbling infrastructure. We appreciate your attention to this critical matter. It is vital to steel-producing communities across America that your administration continues to use all available means to maintain a level playing field for American steel companies and steelworkers. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Murphy – Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressman Peter J. Visclosky – Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Steel G-20 & OECD Letter to the President.pdf ###
08.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today the students who have completed summer internships in his Washington, D.C., office. Alexis Berdine is a Crown Point High School graduate and is currently attending the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. Berdine stated, “During my internship, I was able to gain a greater insight into the workings of our federal government right from Capitol Hill. I especially loved giving tours of the Capitol building to Region constituents.” Colleen Daugherty is from Crown Point and is currently attending Valparaiso University Law School. She has a Law and Society undergraduate degree from Purdue University. Daugherty stated, “In my time working for the Congressman, I saw first-hand how dedicated and attentive he and his entire staff are to the constituents of Northwest Indiana. The experiences gained from this internship have reinforced my desire to pursue a career in public service.” Angela Perez is from Crown Point and is currently attending Indiana University in Bloomington. She is double majoring in Accounting and Finance. Perez stated, “I appreciate the opportunity to have served in both the Merrillville office and the Washington, D.C., office of Congressman Visclosky. Diligence, integrity, efficiency, and cooperation are just some of the terms that will be instilled in me as I look back at my experience here with my fellow interns, staff members, and Congressman Visclosky.” Keith Rogers was born in Gary and recently graduated from Grand Canyon University in Phoenix, Arizona, with a degree in Justice Studies. Rogers stated, “My internship experience has taught me a lot about the importance of public service for the state of Indiana.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I thank all of the dedicated summer interns for their hard work and invaluable assistance this summer. Their fresh perspectives and enthusiasm are a constant source of education and inspiration to me, and I wish them all continued success in their future endeavors.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his Merrillville and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. For additional information on applying for an internship, click here. Picture Caption - Summer 2016 DC Intern – “From left to right, Colleen Daugherty, Angela Perez, Keith Rogers, and Alexis Berdine.” ###
08.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) has awarded a grant for the City of East Chicago. The $175,000 grant will install green infrastructure at Jerose Park to reduce stormwater runoff and filter contaminants before they reach Lake Michigan. According to the EPA, the new instillations will prevent over 290,000 gallons of unfiltered runoff from reaching Lake Michigan. The GLRI was established in 2010 as a way to accelerate efforts to protect and restore the largest system of fresh surface water in the world. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I believe that Lake Michigan is one of the most valuable natural assets of Northwest Indiana, and we must do all that we can to protect it. I commend the City of East Chicago for successfully obtaining this federal funding that will protect our essential shoreline for current residents and the next generation. ” For additional information on the GLRI, click here. ###
08.04.2016	Washington, DC - Below are the prepared remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on hot-rolled steel products. I want to thank Chairman Williamson and all other members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff, for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving hot-rolled steel flat products from Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Hot-rolled steel is made in Northwest Indiana. Hardworking men and women in my district work every single day to manufacture the product we are discussing, and they are doing it more efficiently than anyone else in the world. Today, I want to convey to the Commission the concerns I hear when I talk to steelworkers and steel industry officials in my district. They know they are doing their part to remain competitive, but in the back of their minds, the threat of illegal imports is unrelenting. When our foreign competitors cheat and choose to continually disregard our trade laws, they are threatening the existence of the American steel industry and good-paying jobs that allow our workers to support their families. Throughout my career, I have been fortunate to have the opportunity to tour the steel mills in my district. Each time I visit, I am always deeply impressed by how quickly steelworkers are able to evolve their skill set and operations to keep up with new technology. In the early 1980s, it took an average of 10.1 man hours to produce a finished ton of steel. Today it is only 1.9 man hours. Yet despite being on the cutting edge of technology, American steel companies are faced with constant layoffs, idling, and closures. It is clear to me that these wounds are not self-inflicted. The problem is not that our workers can’t keep up with the capabilities of other countries, it’s that they’re being cheated out of the opportunity to compete fairly. I also am seriously concerned that the countries being investigated in this case are not first-time offenders. There have been eight new steel cases considered by the Commission and the Department of Commerce this year. Of these eight cases, Korea has been investigated in five. China has been investigated in four. Turkey, Brazil, and Japan, have been investigated in three. The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, and India have been investigated in two. While I appreciate that the Commission has in some of these cases acted to hold countries accountable by issuing affirmative determinations, we must stop this dangerous trend. The world is watching to see if the United States will send an irrefutable message to these repeat offenders that illegal trade will not be tolerated. It is past time to stop illegal trade. I strongly urge the Commission to recognize the material injury caused by these illegal trade practices, and to fully enforce our laws. The steelworkers and steel companies in my district and throughout the nation are playing by the rules. They are following international trade laws. They are following labor and environmental laws. They are ensuring their workers are safe, efficient, and earn a fair wage for the work they do. They deserve to know that foreign competitors who cheat and circumvent our laws will be held accountable. I thank you all for the opportunity to testify here today and appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. ###
07.14.2016	Washington, DC - Below are the prepared remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on heavy walled rectangular welded carbon steel pipe and tube products. I want to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, all other members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving heavy walled rectangular welded carbon steel pipes and tubes from Korea, Mexico, and Turkey. American steel is the backbone of our infrastructure. We construct bridges, skyscrapers, and transportation systems with steel produced by hardworking American steelworkers and steel companies. The product we are discussing today, heavy walled rectangular pipes and tubes, are used to construct building frames, support columns, and protective barriers. They are used to build truck beds, trailers, and agricultural implements. We cannot continue to allow illegal imports of products that are the foundation of the economy and transportation infrastructure of our communities. American steelworkers and steel companies make the best steel in the world, more efficiently than anyone else. We should be using that steel in our infrastructure and transportations systems. We should be using that steel to build our nation. While the entire steel industry is facing a constant onslaught of illegal imports, the pipe and tube market has been hit particularly hard. In 2015, imports captured 65 percent of the pipe and tube market share, an 11 percent increase from 2014, while domestic shipments decreased by 38 percent. This is absolutely unacceptable. I appreciate that the ITC has previously ruled in favor of the domestic pipe and tube industry, with 42 existing antidumping and countervailing duty orders on steel pipe, tube, and fittings products currently in place, but it is clear that more must be done to ensure that this dangerous trend does not continue. I also would point out that the countries cited in this case are exporting more pipe and tube products into the American market than almost all of our other foreign competitors. For example, this past June, the U.S. imported 316,882 metric tons of pipe and tube products. Of those imports, 69,285 metric tons came from Korea, 22,008 metric tons came from Turkey, and 53,057 metric tons came from Mexico. This Commission has consistently issued antidumping and countervailing duty orders against these countries for pipe and tube products. In total, Korea, Turkey, and Mexico each have roughly half a dozen standing countervailing and antidumping orders for pipe and tube products, including standing orders for light walled rectangular pipe and tube. It is evident that the countries we are discussing today are repeat offenders who have demonstrated that they have no regard for our trade laws. They have shown that they will continually dump steel into our markets and threaten American steelworkers. We must put a stop to their actions. I urge the Commission to recognize the material injury caused by these imports and to fully enforce out trade laws in an expedient and effective manner. Our foreign competitors in the pipe and tube industry have demonstrated time and time again that they are unwilling to adhere to our trade laws. American steelworkers and steel companies deserve a fair playing field. I thank you all for the opportunity to testify here today and appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. ###
06.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition is Vanessa Garcia for her piece entitled Indiana Treasures. Vanessa Garcia’s artwork will be on display in the U.S. Capitol building until June 2017, and it will be next to pieces of artwork selected from each Congressional District in the United States. Vanessa, along with her mother, recently attended the unveiling of her artwork in Washington, D.C. Garcia graduated from Crown Point High School earlier this month and plans to attend the American Academy of Art. Garcia stated, “It is a true honor to have been chosen to represent Indiana’s First Congressional District. Being in Washington, D.C., has been an amazing experience, and seeing my own artwork in the U.S. Capitol is inspiring. There is simplistic beauty in everything, and that is what drives my creativity.” Congressman Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Vanessa and thank all of the Northwest Indiana students who participated in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Their artwork serves as a reflection of the creative abilities of our region, and I wish all of them the best in their continued academic and artistic studies.” For additional information on the Congressional Art Competition, please click here. ###
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky advanced a Buy America amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Interior Appropriations Act. The amendment strikes provisions that would have weakened Buy America requirements for projects receiving funding through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. Specifically, the amendment removed provisions that would have allowed products that were “substantially transformed” in the United State to meet the Buy America requirements. Under the requirements, EPA Drinking Water State Revolving Fund projects must use iron and steel products produced in the United States. Congressman Visclosky stated, “It is imperative that American taxpayer-dollars are used to buy steel and manufacturing products made by hardworking American men and women. Working families deserve no less. I commend my colleagues for supporting this common sense amendment that will support American jobs.” The amendment was approved by voice vote. The FY 2017 Interior Appropriations Act, including the Buy America amendment, was approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The measure is currently awaiting consideration by the full House of Representatives. For additional information on the FY 2017 Interior Appropriations Act, click here. ###
06.14.2016	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky, Ranking Democrat on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered during the House consideration of H.R. 5293, the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Act. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may consume and ask unanimous consent that my full remarks be entered into the record. I would like to begin by conveying my deep appreciation for Chairman Frelinghuysen’s steady leadership of the Defense Subcommittee. His commitment to this Subcommittee’s tradition of cooperative bipartisanship is unwavering and it is a pleasure working with him. I also would like to express my gratitude to Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other Members of the Subcommittee for their efforts. Additionally, this bill could not have been written without the dedication, long hours, and discerning and thoughtful input of our committee staff and personal staffs. I want to thank Rob Blair, Sherry Young, Walter Hearne, BG Wright, Brooke Boyer, Adrienne Ramsay, Allison Deters, Megan Milam, Colin Lee, Cornell Teague, Matthew Bower, Rebecca Leggieri, Chris Bigelow, Steve Wilson, Joe DeVooght, and Luke Wood. The Chairman has well and clearly articulated the major elements of the bill and report. Under less than ideal circumstances and unsettled conditions, he and the Subcommittee staff have again demonstrated their talent and acumen in putting together this legislation. There are many highlights to the bill. However, I will use my time during general debate to discuss the circumstances and conditions that led to the proposal to use nearly 27 percent of the Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) accounts to fund base Department of Defense programs, which gives me pause as an Appropriator. It was as an Appropriator that I opposed the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and its arbitrary spending caps that only address one-sixth of the federal budget equation. In each session of Congress we should be making discrete decisions on how we annually invest our discretionary dollars. Setting inflexible spending targets for 10 years is nonsensical. I believe we need to invest more in our roads, ports, drinking water infrastructure, universities, and our defense. We need to generate more resources, and we need to have a fulsome discussion of our entitlement programs. My assumption is that there are very few people in Congress who believe that the federal government is currently making enough of a long-term investment in our nation and its interests. And it was as an Appropriator, that I voted for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA), which mitigated the BCA caps on base discretionary funding and capped OCO spending for Fiscal Years (FY) 2016 and 2017. I obviously would have rather seen the complete repeal of the BCA, but nonetheless, I supported the BBA, because it provided some clarity to the Appropriations process for the balance of the 114th Congress. As such, we were able to wrap up the FY 2016 process and, with a number for FY 2017, I was guardedly optimistic that the House would have predictability this year. The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee was far along in its FY 2017 process, when the OCO to Base strategy – conceived to placate some on other Committees – was settled upon as the strategy for the House Majority. While this bill technically does not violate the caps established by the BBA for base defense programs and OCO, it is hard to argue that this bill was assembled under what passes for normalcy in this Congress. And there is no doubt that the Chairman and Subcommittee staff made smart investment decisions in executing the $15.7 billion in OCO to Base funding strategy. However, I am troubled with the circumstances that compelled the Subcommittee’s action. First and foremost, the fiscal year begins on October 1, 2016, not May 1, 2017, and it is the responsibility of those of us holding office in the 2nd session of the 114th Congress to execute the FY 2017 appropriations process. In order to make OCO funding available for base programs, our bill only provides enough funding to fully support the warfighter until the end of April 2017, which is five months before the end of the fiscal year. This is intended to force the next administration and the next Congress to pass a supplemental in calendar year 2017 to support ongoing combat operations. It is not the responsibility of the 115th Congress to finish a predetermined fraction of our work, and we should not be dismissive of the difficulties we created. To assume there will be smooth sailing for a supplemental appropriations bill in the spring is problematic. We do not know who will be in the White House, who will be the civilian leadership at DoD, nor the composition of the next Congress. And as we can clearly see from the Zika Virus debate, and before that Hurricane Sandy, supplemental appropriations bills are not without controversy. Additionally, in making the $15.7 billion in cuts to the OCO budget request, the Committee had to make some assumptions on the pace of combat operations between now and May 2017. While Chairman Frelinghuysen exercised care and caution, there is not much wiggle room in the interim. If the OCO spend rate were to increase for any reason, Congress and a new Administration would have to act quickly to pass a supplemental early in 2017. If that supplemental were not timely, the Department would likely be forced to reprogram or transfer base dollars to OCO, which shortchanges other priorities, negates the Committee’s funding levels, and still requires a supplemental to backfill both base and OCO while not violating the BCA caps. Will said supplemental be funded by offsets from resources within the other 11 Appropriations bills? Adding to the uncertainty, the House Majority is going it alone with this strategy. To date, it has been rejected by the Administration, the Senate Appropriations Committee, and the full Senate. While those three are not infallible, I fear that if the House Majority insists upon heading down this path, we are looking at an impossible conference process. Putting concerns over uncertainty aside, I further believe the OCO to Base strategy abdicates our discretion to the Department of Defense in executing the remaining OCO funding. In order to free up $15.7 billion, certain appropriations in OCO were subject to reductions. These reductions were done at the account level, not at the program level. For example, Navy O&M in the OCO Title was reduced by $2.9 billion, from its requested level of $6.8 billion. The Department has discretion on how it will apply that $2.9 billion reduction across the tens of programs under that account. A final concern I have, and one expressed in prior years, is that we should eliminate the reliance on OCO funding in the first instance and shift activities to the base budget. It is increasingly difficult after fifteen years of war to argue that this operational tempo for our military is a contingency and not the new normal in defending our nation and our interests. This Subcommittee had correctly begun to limit what is an eligible expense in OCO, but under the BBA and this latest proposal we would take a step back. For example, this bill proposes to increase end strength by 52,000 above planned reductions for the Army, Marine Corps, and Air Force. And I agree that we need more personnel, but this additional force structure costs $3 billion in FY 2017 and is paid for with OCO to Base dollars. But, we defer the tough decisions. This is particularly true when recognizing the fact that BCA caps are scheduled to lower defense spending by $2 billion in FY 2018. An increase in end strength creates a tail of spending in future years. The DoD estimates that the troop levels funded in the bill will increase spending by $30 billion over five years. That is $30 billion that is not budgeted for, but $30 billion that our Committee will be expected to pay for. In closing, I have taken some time describing my concerns with the circumstances that impact less than three percent of the total bill. But the manufactured uncertainty introduced by these circumstances diminishes the likelihood that this Committee and the Congress will complete its work. It is a mark of the talent of Chairman Frelinghuysen and our staff, their commitment to our troops and our nation’s defense, and their seriousness of purpose, that they have done so much good to ameliorate the problems caused by this approach. I look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and the members of the House to advance the process and complete the task before us. I look forward to the debate on amendments. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.01.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a grant for the City of Gary Fire Department under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The $758,044 grant award is able to support the operations and safety components of the City of Gary Fire Department. Specifically, the funding is able to support professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) operations and safety. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate Mayor Freeman-Wilson and Fire Chief Bradley for successfully obtaining this grant award. Our brave firefighters are on duty saving lives 24 hours of every day. I am pleased that this funding will further enhance their abilities to protect themselves and keep our communities safe.” City of Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson stated, “We are honored to receive this support from the federal government and I commend Congressman Visclosky and his team on making us aware of opportunities and Chief Bradley and his team for working hard to take advantage of dollars to enhance their efforts on behalf of Gary citizens.” For additional information on FEMA’s AFG program, click here. ###
05.26.2016	Washington, DC - Below are the remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on corrosion-resistant steel products. The picture sets referenced in the remarks are available here. I want to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, all other members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff, for the opportunity to testify today in the case involving corrosion-resistant steel, a product that is made in the First Congressional District of Northwest Indiana. This is my second time testifying before you this week, and last month I was here to testify during a joint hearing of the Department of Commerce and the U.S. Trade Representative regarding the global steel situation. During my testimony at that hearing, I shared a few pictures that clearly illustrate the dire import crisis facing the domestic steel industry. I’d like to share those same pictures with you today. The United States began making steel before the Civil War and was leading global production by the early 1900s. In the first set of attached pictures, you can see thriving mills in Pittsburg, Youngstown, and Sparrows Point, during the first half of the 20th Century. These mills helped build our nation, expand our infrastructure, and support our national security. They provided good-paying jobs that supported families. But now they’re gone. In the 1970s and 80s, due to many factors, domestic steel production stalled and the industry faced significant layoffs and closures. Production has since fluctuated significantly, declining sharply in the early 2000s and following the recession in 2008. The aftermath, which you can see in the second set of attached pictures, are idled mills and lost jobs. Today, we must acknowledge that the steel industry has changed dramatically since the late 20th Century. According to the American Iron and Steel Institute, in the United States, steel productivity has increased five-fold in the past 30 years. Today, it takes an average of 1.9 man-hours to produce a ton of steel. In the early 80s, it took 10.1 man hours. Our domestic steel industry has been dedicated to increasing efficiency and decreasing emissions. Since 1990, the industry has reduced energy intensity by 32 percent and CO2 emissions by 37 percent per ton of steel shipped. In the third set of attached pictures, you can see the incredible level of technology being utilized by modern mills, including at the U.S. Steel Gary Works facility in my district. We are innovative. We are environmentally responsible. We are making a high quality product better than anyone else in the world. We also are faced with an obscene level of global overcapacity, and this steel has no place to be dumped except on our shores, in blatant violation of all norms of international commerce. This has caused businesses to idle and workers to be fired. I ask that you seriously consider the impact that the illegal imports in this case, and in all the current steel cases, are having on steelworkers and their families in Northwest Indiana and the rest of the nation, and that you ensure that you are doing everything possible to urgently enforce our trade laws to the fullest extent possible. I thank you all for the opportunity to testify here today and appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. ###
05.24.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified at the International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on cold-rolled steel products, which are manufactured in Northwest Indiana. During his testimony, Congressman Visclosky presented a Congressional Steel Caucus letter with 80 signatures. Congressman Visclosky stated, “Congress took bipartisan action last year to improve our trade laws, and we will not now complacently watch to see what happens next. The trade cases currently before the International Trade Commission are the front line in the battle against illegal steel imports. The Congressional Steel Caucus will continue to fight every day to make sure that the ITC and all of the executive branch trade agencies aggressively enforce our trade laws and hear the valiant voices of the American steel industry and steelworkers.” Chairman Murphy stated, “This past year, the Congressional Steel Caucus shepherded historic trade enforcement legislation and opened new markets to American-made steel products. The legislation is in place, the International Trade Commission has the tools at their disposal, but now they must take action to hold foreign competitors accountable and protect American jobs. I implore Chairman Broadbent to aggressively investigate the numerous trade cases at hand and utilize the tools Congress has supplied her to the fullest extent.” Below is the text of Congressman Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, all of the members of the Commission, and the dedicated staff, for all your work to protect American steel companies and steelworkers from the dangerous trading practices of foreign competitors. I also would like to thank you for your efforts to utilize the new trade enforcement tools established under P.L. 114-27, the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, which Congress approved and President Obama signed into law last year. I believe that this law received bipartisan support and prioritization from Congressional leadership because of our understanding of the severity of the import crisis currently facing American manufacturers and the American steel industry. One of the primary priorities of the Congressional Steel Caucus today and in the coming months will be to ensure that these new provisions and all of our trade law statutes are enforced to their fullest extent. This is exhibited by the 80 Members of Congress who signed a Congressional Steel Caucus letter drafted by myself and Chairman Tim Murphy. This letter addressed to each of you highlights that in 2015, foreign steel imports took a record 29 percent share of the domestic steel market, American steel mills shipped 12 percent fewer tons of steel than in 2014, and over 13,500 employees were laid off. This is unacceptable. The letter notes that U.S. trade enforcement laws provide the means by which the American steel industry can mitigate the harm inflicted by illegally traded foreign imports, and that in order for the industry and its workers to obtain full and effective relief, the ITC must aggressively enforce the law. On behalf of Chairman Murphy and all of the Steel Caucus signatories, I present this letter to you today during the consideration of the case involving cold-rolled steel products, but I would stress that the importance of your work extends to all of the cases involving the steel industry that are currently under investigation. By our count, today’s case is one of but eight critical investigations involving steel products, and this does not include U.S. Steel’s Section 337 investigation. As you move forward in your investigation of this case involving cold-rolled steel and the other steel cases, I and all of the persistent and diligent steelworkers and their families, in Northwest Indiana and across our country, will carefully be watching your actions to enforce our trade laws and stop the surge of steel imports. I thank you for the opportunity to testify and again appreciate your thorough investigation of the facts of this case. Below are the text of the Congressional Steel Caucus letter and a PDF of the signed version. Dear Commissioners: We write today as Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to encourage you to fully utilize all of the trade enforcement tools provided to you by Congress to address the illegal trade practices of foreign steel producers. We are concerned by the surge of illegally traded imports that are crippling the American steel industry. Year-end import data for 2015 clearly reflects the severity of the crisis: foreign steel imports took a record 29 percent share of the domestic steel market which resulted in American steel mills reaching only 70 percent capacity utilization. Imports of other steel products were even higher, with imports capturing 44 percent of the pipe and tube market. In 2015, American steel mills shipped 12 percent fewer tons of steel than in 2014, and a number of mills were forced to shut down operations and lay off over 13,500 employees. Across the board and in nearly every sector, excessive levels of imports are leading to plant shutdowns, worker dislocation, and economic losses across the nation. We believe that American steelworkers make the best steel in the world, and we have an obligation to ensure that the American steel industry is able to compete on a level playing field and meet the demands of our nation’s infrastructure, defense, transportation, agriculture, and energy sectors. Congress has acted by recently passing critical bipartisan legislation that provides the International Trade Commission (ITC) with enhanced tools to combat illegal trade practices. Specifically, Congress passed the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 (P.L. 114-27), which made important improvements to U.S. antidumping and countervailing duty laws. One such improvement provides the ITC with additional factors it may evaluate when considering injury to the domestic industry. We urge you to fully utilize the tools provided under P.L. 114-27 and under all of our trade enforcement laws when investigating the following pending steel industry trade cases: • Cold-Rolled Steel Products from Brazil, China, India, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Russia, and the United Kingdom; • Corrosion-Resistant Steel Products from China, India, Italy, Korea, and Taiwan; • Heavy Walled Rectangular Welded Carbon Steel Pipes and Tubes from Korea, Mexico, and Turkey; • Hot-rolled steel flat products from Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Turkey, and the United Kingdom; • Welded Stainless Steel Pressure Pipe from India; • Stainless Steel Sheet and Strip from China; • Circular Welded Carbon-Quality Steel Pipe from Oman, Pakistan, the Philippines, UAE, and Vietnam; • Carbon and Alloy Steel Cut-to-Length Plate from Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey U.S. trade enforcement laws provide the means by which the American steel industry can mitigate the harm inflicted by illegally traded foreign imports. In order for the industry and its workers to obtain full and effective relief, the ITC must aggressively enforce the law to ensure duties that fully offset the amount of unfair trade are ultimately assessed and collected. We will continue to closely monitor whether the statutory enforcement tools provided under P.L. 114-27 and other trade enforcement laws are fully utilized during your investigations of these pending steel industry trade cases. Steel Caucus Letter to the ITC.pdf
05.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Visclosky successfully included Buy America requirements in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Defense Appropriations Act. The measure was approved by the House Appropriations Committee and is currently awaiting consideration by the full House of Representatives. Since Congressman Visclosky became the Ranking Member of House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, he has successfully protected Buy America requirements for the Department of Defense. For FY 2017, the Administration sought to remove certain Buy America requirements, and Congressman Visclosky successfully included the requirements in the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Act. Specifically, Congressman Visclosky included Buy America requirements related to armor plate, mooring chains, ball bearings, certain engine components, as well as an overall general Buy America requirement. Congressman Visclosky stated, “The strength of the American steel industry and the American manufacturing base are essential to the strength of our military forces. Steel direct from Northwest Indiana is used to build our aircraft carriers deployed around the world. We must continue to do all that we can to ensure that American taxpayer dollars are used to support American jobs and protect American servicemembers.” For additional information and to access the text of the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Act, please click here. ###
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky have requested a meeting with President Obama to discuss the dire import crisis facing the American steel industry. Detailed in the letter, Chairman Murphy and Vice Chairman Visclosky stated that the unprecedented surge in illegally-trade imports has jeopardized the steel industry and caused numerous mills across the country to close their doors. The letter highlighted the need to discuss the importance of maintaining China’s non-market economy status and the Administration’s plans to aggressively enforce our nation’s trade laws. Chairman Murphy stated, “Our efforts mark the first time in over 20 years Congress has made such an impact to our nation’s trade remedy laws to protect American steel workers and industry from the onslaught of foreign illegal trade. The legislation is in place, the Administration has the tools but now they must take action. I look forward to meeting with President Obama to work together to ensure strong enforcement standards remain at the forefront of this administrations agenda.” Vice Chairman Visclosky stated, “Congress has acted to support the American steel industry. It is now time for the Administration to take the next step. I look forward to meeting with President Obama to discuss how we can work together to address the surge of illegal steel imports and defend the American steelworkers and steel producers who provide an invaluable foundation to our communities and national security.” The text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version are available below. Dear Mr. President: As Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss the dire import crisis facing the American steel industry. The domestic steel industry is the cornerstone of the United States’ economy and national security, supporting more than one million direct and indirect U.S. jobs. Despite the steel industry’s significance to our nation’s economy, the unprecedented surge in illegally-traded imports has jeopardized the industry and caused numerous mills across the country to close their doors, resulting in the layoffs of more than 13,000 employees this past year. America boasts the most talented workforce in the world, but we cannot compete with countries that purposely evade our trade laws and manipulate their currencies. Over the past year, the Congressional Steel Caucus successfully fought for the inclusion of several pro-steel provisions in historic trade enforcement legislation such as the Trade Preferences Extension Act (P.L.114-27) and the Trade Facilitation & Trade Enforcement Act (P.L. 114-125) that Congress approved and you signed into law. Our efforts mark the first time in over 20 years that Congress has made such dramatic and necessary improvements to our nation’s trade remedy laws in order to protect American steelworkers and the industry from the onslaught of illegally dumped foreign products. In addition to improving our trade remedy laws, the Steel Caucus recently sent letters to the Department of Commerce (Commerce), the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), and the Honorable David O’Sullivan, Ambassador of the European Union to the United States of America, urging the rejection of China’s bid to be redesignated as having market economy status in the World Trade Organization (WTO). China’s government-owned and government-supported steel companies subsidize their low-quality steel products to the threshold where American producers can no longer compete on a fair playing field. Recognition of China as a market economy by the WTO would be devastating to the American steel market and its supply chain costing an upwards of 600,000 additional job losses and sending catastrophic shockwaves across the entire United States economy. As such, we wish to discuss with you the importance of maintaining China’s non-market economy status as well as your Administration’s plans to aggressively enforce our nation’s trade laws. Congress has provided Commerce, the International Trade Commission, the USTR, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection with the tools necessary to combat foreign competitors’ illegal trade practices and hold them accountable. It is imperative that your Administration works closely with Congress to ensure that the interpretation and enforcement of our trade laws are carried out to the fullest extent to ensure American steel producers receive swift trade relief before they are pushed to the brink of bankruptcy. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Murphy – Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressman Peter J. Visclosky – Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Steel Caucus Obama Meeting Request 5.11.16.pdf
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – Below are the details for Congressman Pete Visclosky’s 2016 Military Academy Night. When: 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. - Friday - May 20, 2016 Where: Indiana University Northwest Anderson Library Conference Center Room LC105 3400 Broadway Gary, Indiana 46408 Who: Applicants who are from the First Congressional District and interested in attending a U.S. military academy. What: Students will learn about the educational opportunities and the application process for the following institutions: • U.S. Military Academy at West Point • U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London • U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis • U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point • U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Members of the Congressman’s Military Academy Nomination Board and the Congressman’s current Defense Fellow, Major Lucas Wood of the U.S. Marine Corps, will be on hand to answer questions and meet prospective applicants. For additional information and to access the online application, please click here. ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday the House of Representatives approved S. 125, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, by unanimous vote. U.S. Congressmen Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Pete Visclosky (IN-01) authored the original legislation in 1997 and introduced the House-version of the latest reauthorization in January 2015. The measure will now be sent to President Obama to be signed into law. “There is no disputing the threats those who wear the uniform face each day as they safeguard our communities. Bulletproof vests and body armor have saved thousands of law enforcement officers in South Jersey and across the country,” said Congressman LoBiondo. “Now more than ever it is imperative that we give law enforcement the tools they need so they may do their jobs and carry out their duties safely and effectively. I appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s unwavering partnership on this issue with me, which has proven to be a critical tool in protecting the lives of our law enforcement personnel.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I thank the House leadership and the members of the House Judiciary Committee for their commitment to move this essential legislation forward. I also want to thank Congressman LoBiondo for his leadership in sponsoring the House version of this legislation. This program provides life-saving resources to our community police officers on the front line. I am grateful for the support of this program from my colleagues.” This legislation reauthorizes the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) grant program at $25 million annually through Fiscal Year 2020. In addition, the legislation recognizes the invaluable contribution of female police officers in protecting our communities and permits the Department of Justice to prioritize grants to purchase vests that are uniquely fitted to female police officers. Since its inception, the program has assisted in the purchase of 1,235,593 bulletproof vests in more than 13,000 jurisdictions nationwide. Specific to Northwest Indiana, in Fiscal Year 2015, $27,319 assisted in the purchase of 85 bulletproof vests to local law enforcement jurisdictions. In South Jersey, a total of $159,583.12 in federal funds aided in the purchase and replacement of 364 bulletproof vests. For additional information on the BVP grant program, click here. ###
05.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded a Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) grant in Hobart. The $355,370 grant includes four to six green infrastructure projects within the Deep River – Turkey Creek Watershed, which drains into Lake Michigan. The intent of these projects is to reduce the discharge of polluted urban stormwater runoff. This grant initiative is a collaboration between the City of Hobart, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, and the Delta Institute. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I commend the City of Hobart, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, and the Delta Institute, for their resolve to successfully seek out and obtain this funding opportunity from the EPA. Lake Michigan is one of the greatest natural resources not just in Northwest Indiana, but in our entire country, and I am heartened that this grant will improve the quality of our water and the quality of our region for current and future generations of residents.” City of Hobart Mayor Brian Snedecor stated, “I want to thank Congressman Visclosky for his support of our pursuit of the GLRI grant to protect our waterways. Hobart is a city that exists because of Deep River. Our founder, George Earle, created Lake George over 170 years ago by building a dam on Deep River. The people of Hobart recognize that this watershed is the beating heart of our community. We participated in this program because we understand the quality of life in Hobart is directly related to the quality of the water flowing in Deep River and Lake George. The funds from this grant will help us protect our water by creating areas that use native plants to create areas of natural beauty that clean waters that are impaired by urban runoff. We hope to leave a waterway that will enhance the life of Hobart for another 170 years.” For additional information on the EPA’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative program, click here. ###
04.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky has voiced his opposition with the Administration and the European Union to granting market economy status for China. Visclosky joined over 50 other Members of Congress in signing letters to United Stated Trade Representative Froman, Secretary of Commerce Pritzker, and Head of the Delegation of the European Union to the United States O’Sullivan, that expressed concerns regarding transitioning China from non-market economy status to market economy status. Congressman Visclosky stated, “China has a proven record of cheating and not adhering to market based principles. Chinese state-owned enterprises have unlimited financial resources from the Chinese government and have no environmental or labor standards. We must ensure that China’s current non-market economy status is maintained so that the full remedies of U.S. trade law can be enforced.” Below are the texts of the letters. Signed versions are available below. Dear Ambassador Froman and Secretary Pritzker, We write today about the approaching December 11, 2016 deadline contained in Article 15 of China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO. We understand that some argue that this provision obligates granting China market economy status for the purposes of calculating antidumping duties. However, there are strong arguments that this provision creates no such obligation. The antidumping law is a vital tool to ensure that unfairly priced Chinese imports do not injure U.S. companies and workers. This unfair trade is often due to Chinese production overcapacity, particularly in the steel and aluminum industries, and has had harmful effects on U.S. producers. As you know, in determining whether or not to treat a country as a non-market economy (NME) for the purposes of calculating antidumping duties, 19 U.S.C. § 1677(18)(B) requires the Commerce Department to consider six factors: The extent to which the currency of the foreign country is convertible into the currency of other countries; The extent to which wage rates in the foreign country are determined by free bargaining between labor and management; The extent to which joint ventures or other investments by firms of other foreign countries are permitted in the country; The extent of government ownership or control of the means of production; The extent of government control over the allocation of resources and over the price and output decisions of enterprises; and Such other factors as the administering authority considers appropriate. Based on these six factors, the Commerce Department currently treats China as an NME. This ensures that antidumping duties fully remedy unfairly priced Chinese imports. Any consideration of the implications of the December 11, 2016 deadline contained in Article 15 of China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO must be consistent with U.S. law and should reflect the importance of effectively addressing unfairly priced Chinese imports. We also encourage you to take into consideration whether China has implemented the economic reforms promised when Article 15 of China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO was agreed upon. Thank you for your attention to this matter. -------------------- Ambassador David O’SullivanHead of Delegation Delegation of the European Union to the United States 2175 K St. NW Washington, D.C. 20037 Dear Ambassador O’Sullivan, We are writing to you regarding the European Union’s consideration on whether to transition China from non-market economy (NME) to market economy status (MES) for the purposes of the antidumping law. If China is granted MES, we fear that our mutual concerns with China’s continuing subsidization, preferential support for sectors through legal and illegal means, currency misalignment, state-owned enterprises, and overcapacity would no longer be able to be remedied and could cause harm to the economy of the European Union and the United States, as well as the global economy. As you know, China continues to utilize market-distorting tactics such as limitations on market access, export subsidies, state-owned enterprises, and import controls to support its own firms to the detriment of the global economy. Additionally, China continues to manipulate its currency in order to promote exports. China’s mercantilist policies continue to protect its state-controlled local firms from international competitors, at the expense of the United States and the European Union. In our view, based on the prevalence of these policies, China does not operate as a market economy. Granting China MES would also undermine the effectiveness of antidumping duties to remedy unfairly priced Chinese imports. These duties are vital in preventing domestic producers and their workers from being driven out of business or laid off due to unfairly underpriced imports. As China’s economy has slowed, Chinese producers have sought to move their excess capacity to the global market. With its continued expansion of capacity despite promises to reduce production, China will continue to rely on exports to generate growth. Indeed, China has been the target of the vast majority of antidumping trade enforcement cases in the European Union, with six of the seven antidumping suits initiated in 2015 including China as an offending country. Failure to adequately defend industries against dumped imports will lead to lost jobs and would harm the European Union and the global economy by increasing the proliferation of dumped goods. The European Union and the United States have the largest bilateral trade relationship in the world, accounting for nearly half of the global economy’s output each year. Given that the U.S. and the European Union are currently in negotiations over a new trade deal, it seems prudent to consider a universal approach to China’s trade and economic policies. It is imperative that the European Union and the United States maintain a united stance on such an important and controversial issue. The language of China’s WTO protocol does not require us to automatically grant China MES. Therefore, we strongly urge the European Union to reject granting MES to China, and to similarly reject any proposal to use China’s own prices and costs in antidumping calculations. While China has made significant strides in opening its economy, prematurely granting MES will remove incentives for the Chinese government to continue to move away from its market-distorting policies. Failure to adequately address these policies will lead to continued job losses and economic harm throughout the world. We thank you for your consideration of this recommendation. Visclosky China Status US.pdf Visclosky China Status EU.pdf ###
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Below is the opening statement of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s Congressional Steel Caucus hearing on the state of the steel industry, as prepared for delivery. I want to thank Chairman Murphy for convening today’s hearing on the state of the steel industry. I also want to extend my sincere appreciation to all of today’s representatives from steel companies and the United Steelworkers for taking time out of your busy schedules to participate. Two days ago, I, like many of you, testified at the hearing of the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Department of Commerce, and other trade agencies, on the global steel industry situation. At that hearing, I said that steel is vital to the success of our economy and the strength of our national security, and that we must urgently and fully enforce our trade laws in order to stop the influx of illegal steel imports. I noted that the challenges currently faced by the steel industry are not self-inflicted. Our domestic steel industry is dedicated to increasing efficiency and decreasing emissions. According to the American Iron and Steel Institute, today in the United States, it takes an average of 1.9 man-hours to produce a ton of steel, while 30 years ago, it took 10.1 man-hours. Since 1990, the steel industry has reduced energy intensity by 32 percent and CO2 emissions by 37 percent per ton of steel. Our steel producers are innovative, efficient, and environmentally responsible, and they must be able to compete in our global economy. I also believe that steel has an inherent role in keeping Americans safe. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, I am very familiar with the variety of ways that steel supports our national security. For example, steel is used in our ships, armor plate, submarines, and countless other types of military vehicles and equipment. 22 tons of steel plate are used in every Abrams tank. 50,000 tons of steel plate are used in every aircraft carrier, and half of that steel is made in Northwest Indiana. The Alliance for American Manufacturing has just released a white paper on how the steel import surge is threatening U.S. national security, and it notes that virtually every military platform is dependent to some degree on steel and specialty metals. It is imperative that we ensure that American steel companies and steelworkers are able to succeed in our global economy so that they can continue to meet the needs of our military. The current level of global steel overcapacity is staggering, and we must do more to prevent this unused steel from being dumped on our shores. I am pleased that Congress passed two critical pieces of legislation in the past year to improve the enforcement of our trade laws. The Trade Preferences and Extension Act of 2015 improves the ability of the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission to consider real world factors when investigating trade violations, and the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 allows U.S. Customs and Border Protection to investigate allegations of trade law evasion. You have my assurance that as the 114th Congress proceeds, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the Congressional Steel Caucus to encourage the effective implementation of these new protections and actively conduct oversight of the Administration in order to make sure that American steel companies and steelworkers are able to compete on a level playing field. I thank you all again for participating in today’s hearing and I look forward to our discussion. ###
04.12.2016	Washington, DC – Below are the remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s hearing of the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Department of Commerce, and other U.S. government agencies, on the global steel industry situation and its impact on the U.S. steel industry and market, as prepared for delivery. The picture sets referenced in the remarks are attached below. I want to thank U.S. Trade Representative Froman, Secretary Pritzker, representatives from all the additional participating agencies, and staff for the opportunity to testify today. The success of the domestic steel industry is an issue that I care deeply about, and one that tremendously impacts the day to day lives of my constituents in Northwest Indiana. It is vital to our economy and our national security. The United States began making steel before the Civil War and was leading global production by the early 1900s. In the first set of attached pictures, you can see thriving mills in Pittsburg, Youngstown, and Sparrows Point, during the first half of the 20th Century. These mills helped build our nation, expand our infrastructure, and support our national security. They provided good-paying jobs that supported families. But now they’re gone. In the 1970s and 80s, due to many factors, domestic steel production stalled and the industry faced significant layoffs and closures. Production has since fluctuated significantly, declining sharply in the early 2000s and following the recession in 2008. The aftermath, which you can see in the second set of attached pictures, are idled mills and lost jobs. Today, we must acknowledge that the steel industry has changed dramatically since the late 20th Century. According to the American Iron and Steel Institute, in the United States, steel productivity has increased five-fold in the past 30 years. Today, it takes an average of 1.9 man-hours to produce a ton of steel. In the early 80s, it took 10.1 man hours. Our domestic steel industry has been dedicated to increasing efficiency and decreasing emissions. Since 1990, the industry has reduced energy intensity by 32 percent and CO2 emissions by 37 percent per ton of steel shipped. In the third set of attached pictures, you can see the incredible level of technology being utilized by modern mills, including at the Gary Works facility in my district. We are innovative. We are environmentally responsible. We are making a high quality product better than anyone else in the world. We also are faced with an obscene level of global overcapacity, and this steel has no place to be dumped except on our shores, in blatant violation of all norms of international commerce. This has caused businesses to idle and workers to be fired. To address this growing problem, Congress passed two critical pieces of legislation in the past year that will improve the enforcement of our trade laws. The Trade Preferences and Extension Act of 2015 improves the ability of the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission to consider real world factors when investigating trade violations, and the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 allows U.S. Customs and Border Protection to investigate allegations of trade law evasion. I urge all of the dedicated representatives and staff here today from the administration to urgently enforce existing trade laws as well as these new laws to the fullest extent possible. I again thank you for holding this hearing today and for recognizing how critical the steel industry is to communities throughout the nation. I sincerely appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony. Visclosky Steel Pictures.pdf ###
04.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky recently joined six other Members of the Indiana Congressional Delegation to support the application by the State of Indiana for additional housing foreclosure prevention and blight elimination funding. Specifically, on March 23, 2016, the Members of the Indiana Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Secretary of Treasury Jack Lew that expressed support for the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority’s (IHCDA) application for additional funding available under the Hardest Hit Fund. In 2010, Indiana was one of 18 states and the District of Columbia to receive funding under the Hardest Hit Fund. This funding provided the IHCDA with additional resources to prevent housing foreclosures and provide funding to local communities to demolish blight and abandoned buildings. On February 19, 2016, the Department of Treasury announced that additional Hardest Hit Funds would be available as specified under P.L. 114-113, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016. The letter notes that to date, Hardest Hit Fund resources have helped nearly 7,000 unemployed and underemployed Hoosiers stay in their homes. The letter states that Indiana has also utilized a portion of this Hardest Hit Fund allocation to demolish blighted properties in recognition that a successful and long-lasting approach to neighborhood stabilization must also address blight elimination and economic development. The letter also states that the Members of Congress are confident that Indiana has the means and infrastructure in place to ensure that the funds are used expeditiously and encourages the Department of Treasury’s full consideration of Indiana’s application. Congressman Visclosky stated, “I thank the IHCDA for their unrelenting commitment to stabilizing neighborhoods in Indiana and my colleagues for joining me in support of Indiana’s application for additional Hardest Hit Fund resources. The Hardest Hit Fund has been a significant driver of our state’s efforts to recover from the recession, both by providing direct homeowner assistance and by supporting blight elimination in communities in need of funding for the demolition of abandoned and unsafe structures. I commend all of our state and local officials for their diligence to seek opportunities to continue to benefit from this critical program.” In addition to Congressman Visclosky, the letter was signed by Senator Coats, Senator Donnelly, Representative Brooks, Representative Bucshon, Representative Carson, and Representative Walorski. For additional information from the Department of Treasury, click here. Below is a copy of the signed letter. HHF Delegation Letter of Support.pdf ###
03.31.2016	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky have called on President Obama to utilize the newly enacted trade remedy laws. Detailed in a letter sent to President Obama, Chairman Murphy and Vice Chairman Visclosky stated that Congress has acted by passing two critical pieces of bipartisan legislation that provide the Department of Commerce, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the International Trade Commission with enhanced tools to combat illegal trade practices. The letter implored President Obama to use each and every tool available to aggressively fight unfair trade practices. Chairman Murphy stated, “This past year Congress achieved historic success passing new trade enforcement laws and opening new markets to American-made steel products. The legislation is in place, the Administration has the tools but now they must take action in order to hold foreign competitors accountable and protect American jobs. The Congressional Steel Caucus will continue to work to ensure strong enforcement standards remain at the forefront of this Administration’s agenda.” Vice Chairman Visclosky stated, “Congress has taken significant action this past year to stop the influx of illegal steel imports. The executive branch agencies must now take the next steps. As the 114th Congress proceeds, the Congressional Steel Caucus will continue to encourage the effective implementation of these new protections and actively conduct oversight of the Administration in order to make sure that American steel companies and steelworkers are able to compete on a level playing field.” Below is the text of the letter and below is a PDF of the signed version. March 30, 2016 The Honorable Barrack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, D.C.20500 Dear Mr. President: As Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we write to urge you to ensure that the Department of Commerce (Commerce), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the International Trade Commission (ITC) are utilizing all the trade enforcement tools provided to them by Congress to address the illegal trade practices of our foreign competitors. We are concerned by the surge of unfairly traded imports that are crippling the American steel industry. Year-end import data for 2015 clearly reflects the severity of the crisis: foreign steel imports took a record 29 percent share of the domestic flat-rolled steel market which resulted in American steel mills idling 30 percent of their operating capacity. Imports of other steel products were even higher, with imports capturing 44 percent of the pipe and tube market. In 2015, American steel mills shipped 12 percent fewer tons of steel than in 2014, and a number of mills were forced to shut down operations and lay off over 12,000 employees. Across the board and in nearly every sector, excessive levels of imports are leading to plant shutdowns, worker dislocation, and economic losses across the nation. We must act now to protect this critical industry and the hardworking steelworkers who support our communities. And, Congress has acted by passing two critical pieces of bipartisan legislation that provide Commerce, CBP, and the ITC with enhanced tools to combat illegal trade practices. Last summer, Congress passed the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 (P.L. 114-27), which was signed into law on June 29th and made important improvements to U.S. antidumping and countervailing duty laws. One such improvement provides Commerce increased discretion to apply “adverse facts available” when foreign companies and their governments fail to cooperate with Department investigations. We urge you to require that Commerce aggressively utilizes the tools provided by P.L. 114-27 when investigating trade cases and calculating duties in pending trade investigations. It is absolutely critical that Commerce uses its authority to ensure that countries are held accountable for breaking our trade laws. Additionally, Congress recently passed the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (P.L. 114-27) also known as the customs bill, which was signed into law on February 24th. This law includes provisions that will provide the domestic producers with the ability to petition CBP to take action when there is evidence that foreign companies are evading the payment of antidumping and countervailing duties. The law also requires CBP to makes expeditious determinations in these trade cases so that domestic producers can obtain relief as quickly as possible. U.S. trade remedy laws provide the means by which the domestic steel industry can mitigate the harm inflicted by unfairly traded foreign imports. In order for the industry and its workers to obtain full and effective relief, Commerce must adequately assess duties to fully offset the illicitly-derived benefits foreign importers receive on account of their dumping and government subsidization. In addition, it is incumbent upon CBP to fully collect the duties assessed by Commerce through the provisions of the recently enacted Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act. The Congressional Steel Caucus will be closely monitoring whether the Administration carries out its statutory mandates when deciding the many trade cases filed in 2015. In closing, we cannot impress upon you enough the importance of the American steel industry to the communities we represent and the national and economic security of our country. American steelworkers make the best steel in the world, and the industry provides the products necessary to meet the demands of our nation’s infrastructure, defense, transportation, agriculture, and energy sectors. We implore you to use each and every tool available to you to aggressively fight unfair trade practices and ensure the American steel industry is given the opportunity to compete on a level playing field and is positioned to serve future generations. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Murphy – Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressman Peter J. Visclosky – Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Letter to President on Enforcement of Trade Laws 3.30.16.pdf ###
03.17.2016	Washington, DC - Below are the remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky before the Aircraft Carrier Industrial Base Council, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank the Aircraft Carrier Industrial Base Council for the opportunity to speak to you tonight. For those of you who may not know me, I represent the First Congressional District of Indiana, which encompasses Northwest Indiana and is the largest steel producing Congressional District in our country. I also am the Ranking Member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which is responsible for allocating approximately $570 billion to programs that keep our country safe and ensure that our men and women in uniform are able to complete their missions to the best of their abilities. I have been fighting for the steel industry my entire career. Through my work on the Defense Subcommittee, I am privileged to be able to fight for steel and manufacturing communities across our entire country. You and the Aircraft Carrier Industrial Base Council know better than anyone that the preservation of the American industrial base is essential not just to our national economy, but to our national security. We are a country at war. The threats to our nation do not just involve our approximately 4,000 troops in the Middle East, or our 10,000 troops in Afghanistan, or our 28,000 troops in South Korea. Over seventy percent of our planet is covered by water, and we have inherent economic interests in our waterways to protect. Ninety-five percent of the world’s Internet information travels across the ocean floors on cables, and over ninety percent of our trade is shipped over the seas. We have an obligation to ensure that the U.S. Navy and all of our service members are able keep our nation safe and protect our national security interests in the global waterways. The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee held our Fiscal Year 2017 hearing with Navy leaders last month, and we discussed the evolving and aggressive threats in waters around the world. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Richardson noted how both China and Russia are “becoming increasingly adept in coercion and competition below the thresholds of outright conflict.” We also discussed at length the number of aircraft carriers in our fleet and their ability to meet our national security needs. The rotation of the 11 aircraft carriers between being on station, in training, or in maintenance is a challenge we must address. The quality of our aircraft carriers is second to none, and I thank all of you in this room for supplying the latest nuclear capabilities and technology to the new Ford-class aircraft carriers and for paying your workers a living-wage. While it is sometimes said that quality is better than quantity, when it comes to our aircraft carrier fleet, quantity is just as important as quality. We need a strong industrial base. I believe that our country was a leader this past century in global conflicts because we out-produced our enemies. Today, we buy rocket engines from Russia. Today, we buy electronics for weapons systems from China. Today, we have a budget request that proposes to eliminate Buy America requirements for armor plate, ball bearings, mooring chains, and supercomputers. This is unacceptable to me. A strong industrial base leads to a strong defense. We need a strong industrial base that can operate our ships yards, build our nuclear engines, create unsurpassable weapons systems, and manufacture our steel. Of the roughly 50,000 tons of steel plate required for the construction of an aircraft carrier, ArcelorMittal supplies the majority of the steel, of which half is manufactured and produced at their Northwest Indiana plate mill in Burns Harbor. Unfortunately, American steel companies and steelworkers are currently fighting for their survival against global overcapacity and illegal imports. It is estimated that there are almost 700 million tons of global overcapacity in the steel industry. This is a threefold increase in the past ten years. China and many other countries have spent the last several years building their production capacity through illegal subsidies and state-owned enterprises that have unlimited financial resources from their government. For far too long, this steel has been finding its way to be illegally dumped in our market, to the detriment of our steel industry. We are doing our best with our trade laws, and this year some critical trade determinations will be made. The Department of Commerce has already preliminarily imposed 226 percent tariffs on cold-rolled steel from China and 236 percent tariffs on hot-rolled steel from China, and I and other members of the Congressional Steel Caucus will be active in testifying when these cases are before the International Trade Commission beginning this May. Congress has also passed laws within the past year to improve the ability of the International Trade Commission to accurately and timely make trade determinations and improve the ability of the Customs and Border Protection Agency to investigate those who attempt to circumvent our trade laws and duties at the border. The Congressional Steel Caucus will be active this year in making sure that these new tools and authorities are fully utilized by the Administration. We are making progress, but we have more work to do. Steel production is the foundation of the economy of Northwest Indiana. It is the foundation of our aircraft carriers. It is the foundation of our national defense. Using American steel on our military aircraft carriers, our tanks, our submarines, and our military vehicles, is not just the right thing to do with American-taxpayer dollars. It is the right thing to do to preserve the economic security and the national security of all Americans. As we move forward in crafting a Department of Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2017, you have my assurance that I will do everything possible to make the investments appropriate to ensure our manufacturing suppliers and capabilities remain here in communities across the United States and, just as importantly, that we get our work done on time. At this point, I believe the Defense Subcommittee will be able to do its work and be allowed to make the difficult and deliberate decisions needed to prioritize the resources available to strengthen our defense posture and minimize the risk to our nation and those in uniform. However, you in this room know the value of consistency and predictability. Unfortunately, over the last six fiscal years, Congress has not provided consistency or predictability. I deeply regret the institution’s track record. It pains me to think about how much less efficient the Department of Defense has been over the last six fiscal years, as it has been forced to carry out our national defense strategy in an increasingly unstable security environment, all while navigating the unpredictability of sequestration, a government shutdown, vacillating budget caps, continuing resolutions, and appropriations that arrive well into the fiscal year. During the past six fiscal years, the dates that the Defense Appropriations measure has been signed into law range from December 15 to April 15. Our year starts on October 1. For Fiscal Year 2017, Member of Congress requests are due to the Defense Subcommittee tomorrow. We then have every intention of moving through Subcommittee markup, full Committee markup, and House floor consideration prior to the Memorial Day recess. This will allow time us to conference with the Senate approved measure and approve the conference report before the new fiscal year begins on October 1, 2016. Unfortunately, events outside of our Committee’s control, such as elections or a vacancy in another branch of the government, may impact this timeline. But you have my assurance that I will do everything possible to have decisions made before the new Fiscal Year. I and all of the other Members of Congress were elected to make decisions. We were elected to do a job. I intend to see that we do our job of funding the government and the Department of Defense in a timely manner. In conclusion, I again thank the Aircraft Carrier Industrial Base Council for the opportunity to speak tonight. I also want to thank all of you for taking the time to come to Washington, D.C., to tell your respective Members of Congress about the great value of your work and how we all must continue to work together every day to preserve our ability of our industrial base to continue to make things in our country. ###
03.07.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the details of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for high school students from Indiana’s First Congressional District. Each year, the Congressional Institute and Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor the Congressional Art Competition as an opportunity to promote the artistic talent in each Congressional District. The theme for the competition this year is Indiana’s Bicentennial and the contest is featured statewide as a Bicentennial Legacy Project. “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and embrace the talent of young artists in Northwest Indiana. I encourage high school students to participate and I look forward to seeing the artwork that celebrates Indiana’s Bicentennial and showcases the cultural and artistic heritage of our Region,” Congressman Visclosky said. The grand prize winner will have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, and will receive two (2) complimentary round-trip tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a ceremony unveiling the artwork in Washington, D.C. Please note that all additional travel arrangements and expenses will be the responsibility of the winner. All artwork submissions and application forms must be brought to Congressman Visclosky’s Merrillville office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 8, 2016. Artwork will be accepted during the Merrillville office’s normal hours of operation: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Complete information about the Congressional Art Competition, including guidelines and application forms, is available on Congressman Visclosky’s website at: https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/congressional-art-competition. If applicants have any additional questions or concerns, please contact the Merrillville office at 219-795-1844. ###
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – Below are the opening remarks of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense hearing on the Department of Defense budget for Fiscal Year 2017, as prepared for delivery. Thank you very much, Chairman Frelinghuysen. I appreciate you holding this hearing and look forward to working with you to craft the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Defense Bill. Secretary Carter, General Dunford, and Under Secretary McCord, welcome to today’s hearing. I thank each of you for your commitment to our military service members, their families, and the civilian personnel under your command. Your testimony and insight are vitally important to the Committee’s deliberations as it carries out its role in providing funding for the defense of our country. I wish to express my continued concern regarding the self-inflicted uncertainty created by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). Admittedly, I used much of my time at the Fiscal Year 2016 version of this hearing for a similar purpose, and although much has changed in the last 12 months, including the enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA) that mitigated the BCA caps for two-years, it is hard to argue that the Department of Defense, or any federal agency for that matter, is now appreciably better positioned to plan or budget for the future. It pains me to think about how much less efficient the Department of Defense has been over the last six fiscal years, as it has been forced to carry out our National Defense Strategy in an increasingly unstable security environment, all while navigating the unpredictability of sequestration, a government shutdown, vacillating budget caps, continuing resolutions, and appropriations that arrive well into the fiscal year. Even the least clairvoyant among us can foresee the problems looming in Fiscal Year 2018 and beyond when the BCA caps return. And though it is conceivable we will see additional short term relief of the sequester caps in Fiscal Year 2018, until the BCA ends in Fiscal Year 2021, just think about how much more time will be wasted in that process. The BCA was sold as a deficit reduction tool, yet the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) recently estimated that the Fiscal Year 2016 deficit will be $105 billion higher than the deficit recorded in the prior fiscal year. More troubling, in the same report CBO projected that from 2016-2025, the cumulative deficit will be $1.5 trillion more than the office projected in August 2015. The prolonged inability of Congress and the Administration to find the consensus needed to replace the disdained BCA and its faux austerity with policies that truly address the long term drivers of our budget deficits – growth in mandatory spending and lack of revenue – is truly an abject failure. On a more positive note, despite the ongoing efforts in Congress to renegotiate the agreed to Fiscal Year 2017 caps on the base DoD budget and Overseas Contingency Operations accounts, I am guardedly optimistic that the BBA will provide some predictability to this year’s appropriations process. We have a number and I hope that this Subcommittee will be allowed to make the difficult and deliberate decisions needed to prioritize the resources available to strengthen our defense posture and minimize the risk to our nation and those in uniform. Hopefully, events outside the Committee’s control, such as elections or a vacancy in another branch of the government, do not get in the way of completing our work. Secretary Carter, you have stated that this budget is a major inflection point for the Department and takes the long view. Further, you have indicated that the request favors innovation and readiness posture over force structure. I was pleased to hear both those sentiments, but based on the outcomes of the last handful of budget requests, I am skeptical of any strategy, plan, or program that is reliant on relief from the BCA caps in future years. I completely understand the motivations behind DoD’s decision to assume more funding in the out-years. However, I worry if that assumption does not come to fruition, some of the modernization programs planned for in this budget, which came at the expense of procuring fewer weapon systems, will not be sustainable across the Future Years Defense Plan. I assure you that I am committed to working with my colleagues to find a lasting solution to our fiscal situation, which necessitates addressing both revenue and mandatory spending, because I firmly believe that is the only pathway to ensure our military is properly resourced this year and for the foreseeable future. Finally, I appreciate that the much-anticipated plan for closing the Guantanamo Bay detention facility was transmitted to Congress earlier this week, but I am disappointed in its limited scope. I firmly believe that the political and legal expediency that led to the establishment of the detention facility has been dwarfed by its cost to America’s reputation around the world and has ultimately been a rallying cry for extremists. I hope the plan is considered on its merits, rather than it being reflexively rejected. Mr. Chairman, thank you again for holding the hearing and I look forward to your testimony. ###
02.24.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement in response to President Obama signing into law the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015: “Today is a good news day for American steelworkers. Duplicitous foreign countries and foreign companies have been circumventing our trade laws to dump illegal steel into our markets for far too long. I was proud to support the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 in the House of Representatives and I am pleased that President Obama has now signed it into law. The improved tools that it provides the Customs and Border Protection Agency will greatly assist their efforts to prevent illegal steel imports from crossing our borders and further protect hard-working American steelworkers and their families. I will continue to work to see that this law is implemented to its fullest extent with the utmost haste.” ###
02.01.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement submitted in the Congressional Record on Black History Month: “Mr. Speaker: It is with great respect and admiration that I rise in honor of Black History Month and its 2016 theme – ‘Hallowed Grounds: Sites of African American Memories.’ This year’s theme reflects on locations across the United States that are remembered for the important role each has played in pursuit of civil rights and justice. “As Americans, it is important that we honor and celebrate our nation’s greatest advocates for freedom and equal rights for all. During this month and always, we pay tribute to the heroes of American history as we recall the tremendous sacrifice and the immense struggle of those who fought, and continue to fight, for equality, and the remarkable impact their contributions have had in shaping our great nation. “From generation to generation, from those who have experienced or witnessed events that have led to change to the young children who listen to stories of their grandparents or the lessons taught in school, locations, much like the names of those who have toiled in hopes of a better society, are forever engrained in the hearts and minds of the American people. From the birthplaces of our greatest African American leaders to stops along the Underground Railroad, from sites of tragic events that brought about change to the churches that have inspired hope among communities for generations, each is a reminder of the past and the progress we have made, while recognizing there is much more work to be done. “As a lifelong resident of Northwest Indiana, born and raised in Gary, Indiana, I had the opportunity to witness a truly historic moment. In November 1967, residents of Gary went to the polls and elected Richard Gordon Hatcher, a civil rights leader who spoke alongside Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., mayor of the city. His election, along with the election of Carl Burton Stokes of Cleveland, Ohio, marked the first time in our nation’s history that American cities with more than 100,000 residents would be led by African American mayors. In January 1968, Mayor Hatcher was sworn into office, a position in which he proudly served for the next twenty years. “Mr. Speaker, I ask that you and my distinguished colleagues join me in celebrating Black History Month and honoring those who persevered in the name of equality and social justice. As we reflect on the many historic sites throughout America that have played such a critical role in changing our nation’s landscape, let us never forget the struggle of our predecessors while continuing the pursuit of the betterment of society for all.” ###
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “I appreciate President Obama’s recognition of the progress that has been made in the past years. I also share his sentiment that we still have work to do. I will continue to approach my responsibilities every day in a civil manner and in a bi-partisan fashion to benefit all residents and the next generation of residents in Northwest Indiana and the United States.” ###
01.05.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement in response to the announcement that Indiana State Senator Earline Rogers will not seek re-election: “I have been profoundly inspired by Sen. Earline Rogers’ steadfast devotion to the service of others. She has accrued inestimable accomplishments as a legislator while always displaying unwavering kindness. Northwest Indiana and the City of Gary will forever be thankful for her tireless efforts. I wish Earline the best of luck and wellness in her retirement.” ###
12.31.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the following 2016 schedule for Town Forums that will be held throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. Thursday – January 14, 2016 10:00 a.m. Crown Point Community Library 122 North Main Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 12:00 p.m. Dyer Town Hall One Town Square Dyer, Indiana 46311 2:00 p.m. East Chicago City Hall – Council Chambers 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, Indiana 46312 4:00 p.m. Wicker Park Social Center 2215 Ridge Road Highland, Indiana 46322 6:00 p.m. Purdue University Calumet – Student Union Library Building – Room with a View 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323 Friday – January 15, 2016 10:00 a.m. Michigan City – City Hall – Council Chambers 100 East Michigan Boulevard Michigan City, Indiana 46360 12:00 p.m. Chesterton Town Hall 726 Broadway Chesterton, Indiana 46304 2:00 p.m. Porter County Government Center – County Commissioners’ Chambers 155 Indiana Avenue Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 4:00 p.m. Portage City Hall 6070 Central Avenue Portage, Indiana 46368 6:00 p.m. Hobart Community Center 111 East Old Ridge Road Hobart, Indiana 46342 Saturday – January 16, 2016 12:00 p.m. Gary Public Library – Woodson Branch 501 South Lake Street Gary, Indiana 46403 2:00 p.m. Merrillville Town Hall 7820 Broadway Merrillville, Indiana 46410 Please note that all times listed are Central Standard Time. ###
12.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky supported the conference agreement for H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. The House of Representatives approved the measure by a vote of 256 to 158. The conference agreement for H.R. 644 includes provisions requested in a Steel Caucus letter sent on November 20, 2015, and signed by 40 Members of Congress. Specifically, the conference agreement will establish new tools and processes for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to act against the evasion of anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I am pleased that the leaders of the Ways and Means Committee and Congressional leadership have responded to the call of the Congressional Steel Caucus. This legislation will improve the ability of the CBP to enforce our trade laws and provide American steelworkers with additional tools to fight back against illegal steel imports. We must do all we can to tell countries around the world that the United States does not tolerate illegal trade.” Thomas J. Gibson, President and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute, said, “We applaud the efforts of Rep. Visclosky for his leadership in ensuring that strong language was included in the customs bill to make sure duties are being accurately assessed and collected at the border. The steelworkers of Indiana and the nation are fortunate that the work of Rep. Visclosky will enable Customs and Border Protection officials to address concerns when foreign companies avoid duty payment. Rep. Visclosky once again has successfully championed the issues that are critical to the steel industry, and we are grateful.” For a copy of the Steel Caucus letter, click here. For additional information on the conference agreement, click here. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky supported the conference agreement for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act. The House of Representatives approved the measure by a vote of 359 to 65. This legislation authorizes and includes dedicated revenue sources for surface transportation programs for the next five years. Specific to Indiana, the measure increases funding for Indiana highway programs by $448 million and increases funding for Indiana transit programs by $29.7 million. The measure also increases the funds available for Capital Investment Grants, which assist investment projects such as the recapitalization and expansion of the South Shore Rail Line. It also increases the funding available for improvements to bus systems by 89 percent. Additionally, the measure includes language that strengthens Buy America requirements for the use of American iron and steel in transportation projects. Further, the measure includes a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank for four years. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I am pleased that this measure includes provisions to strengthen Buy America requirements. During these challenging days for steelworkers, we must do all we can to make more American steel. I also support this measure because it provides increased funding levels for investments in our roads, bridges, and rail and bus systems, and it enables our community leaders to be better able to make plans and implement transportation infrastructure projects for current and future residents of Northwest Indiana.” Mike Noland, CEO and General Manager of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District, stated, “We are thrilled to see that this legislation supports the long-term infrastructure investments that are critical to the South Shore’s daily operations and expansion plans. From the West Lake Corridor, to double tracking, to installing Positive Train Control, this legislation provides a path forward and much needed federal funding. Congressman Visclosky's unwavering leadership on transportation efforts for Northwest Indiana is evident in this legislation and we cannot thank him enough for once again delivering for our community.” “A stable source of federal dollars will strengthen the case for state and local transportation investment in Northwest Indiana,” said Bill Hanna, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority. “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his tireless efforts on behalf of the region. We have an opportunity now to greatly improve connectivity to the third-largest economy in the country, create new job opportunities for residents, and encourage economic development in Northwest Indiana.” Ty Warner, Executive Director of the Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission, stated, “There is a lot to like in this legislation for our region, including the expansion of the TIFIA loan program to include Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) projects. We are grateful that Congress has come together to provide five years of secure and predictable funding to help meet Northwest Indiana’s transportation needs.” For additional information on the conference agreement, click here. ###
11.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy, Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky, and 38 other Members of the bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus today sent a letter to the leaders of the House Ways and Means Committee, urging that the Committee work with its Senate counterparts and make the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act (H.R.644) a priority as Congress returns from the Thanksgiving holiday break. Detailed in the letter, the bipartisan lawmakers state that maintaining strong trade laws and vigorous enforcement of laws are critical elements for a strong domestic steel industry, noting how American steelworkers are under attack every day from illegal imports. They request the Committee to conference and complete the enactment of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, which contains provisions that would ensure that antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duties are being accurately assessed and collected at the border, as soon as possible. Earlier this year, the Congressional Steel Caucus spearheaded passage of legislation concerning antidumping and countervailing duty laws that was signed into law on June 29th. Congressman Tim Murphy Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus, stated, “We achieved historic success in the House with trade remedy language earlier this year, but we can’t rest on our laurels. The Congressional Steel Caucus is working to ensure strong enforcement standards remain in the final conference report.” Vice Chairman Visclosky stated, “Illegal steel imports are decimating the American steel industry and it is imperative that we have the strongest tools and resources to fight back. Legislation to update Customs and Border Protection processes and authorities is essential to defending American steelworkers and combating illegal trade. I hope the House Ways and Means Committee and Congressional leadership heed the call of the Congressional Steel Caucus to see that this legislation is completed as soon as possible.” Below is a text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version. Chairman Kevin BradyHouse Ways and Means Committee 1102 Longworth HOBWashington, DC 20515Ranking Member Sander LevinHouse Ways and Means Committee1106 Longworth HOBWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Levin: We write today as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to thank you for your support of the domestic steel industry, and for your partnership over the past year that resulted in legislative language, critically important to the domestic steel industry, being included in the Trade Preferences Extension Act (H.R.1295) that was signed into law on June 29th. Thanks to your leadership, the domestic steel industry is better able to compete on a level playing field with foreign competitors who are determined to evade our trade laws. We encourage you to continue your commitment to these producers and workers by making the bicameral conference and completion of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act one of your first priorities under the new House Ways and Means Leadership. One of the critical elements to ensuring that trade remedy laws are ultimately effective is to ensure that the antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duties that result from trade cases are accurately assessed and collected at the border. Solicitations from firms trying to evade U.S. AD/CVD orders continue to surface at increasing and alarming levels, and yet there is no transparent process at U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) whereby the domestic industry can seek timely relief from this activity. Provisions in Title IV of the Senate Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act (H.R. 644) will provide for such a process at CBP and ensure that the laws against unfair trade are being enforced and the correct amount of duties are being collected. These reforms, collectively known as the ENFORCE Act, are essential to ensure that U.S. producers, who have been injured by unfairly traded imports, receive the benefit of the remedy provided by law. Specifically, we support including the following key elements to address the circumvention and evasion of AD/CVD orders in the final conference report: Enhancing CBP Tools - CBP needs to be identified as the lead agency to conduct evasion investigations. CBP is the entity charged with collecting AD and CVD duties at the border and enforcing all other tariff and border issues. Time-Limited Investigations –Congress must require CBP to initiate, investigate, and make determinations on allegations of evasion within one year so that the problem of evasion can be reviewed carefully and in a timely manner. Already, domestic industries often spend more than a year bringing the original AD or CVD case through the U.S. Department of Commerce and U.S. International Trade Commission. Judicial Review - CBP’s decisions on evasion allegations must also be appealable to the Court of International Trade. Judicial review is a common feature in customs trade classifications and trade remedy actions, and it aims to ensure that U.S. government agencies are accountable and that processes are consistent with statutory requirements. If judicial review is not provided with respect to evasion determinations, domestic manufacturing industries are denied any opportunity to ensure that CBP acted appropriately and in accordance with law. Yet importers, who would have existing rights to judicial review if they disagree with CBP’s classification of imports, would be provided greater legal rights than our own domestic manufacturers that have already been found to be injured by unfairly traded imports. No Opt-Out – The relief for U.S. producers must be prescriptive. Recent reports that negotiators are considering “opt-out” provisions, such as allowing CBP to suspend the ENFORCE procedure while other agencies investigate criminal or civil claims related to the same illegal merchandise, are alarming because they are effectively a loophole for CBP to continue failing to enforce the law. ENFORCE simply creates an administrative review process, which should occur independent of other investigations. Should CBP be given a new legal justification for opting out of its responsibilities, it would be a step back from current law. Maintaining strong trade laws and the vigorous enforcement of those laws are critical elements for a strong domestic steel industry. Steelworkers are under attack every day by illegal imports, and we must not delay to strengthen the range of available tools to combat the evasion of our trade remedy laws. Therefore, we strongly encourage you to conference and complete the enactment of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act as soon as possible. Sincerely, Rep. Tim MurphyChairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. Peter ViscloskyVice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. Walter B. JonesRep. Marcy KapturRep. Sam GravesRep. Debbie DingellRep. Brian HigginsRep. Gene GreenRep. Gregg HarperRep. Mo BrooksRep. Tom Marino Rep. Michael R. TurnerRep. Richard NolanRep. Bradley ByrneRep. David B. McKinley, P.E. Rep. Pete AguilarRep. Rick CrawfordRep. Lou BarlettaRep. David P. Joyce Rep. Bob GibbsRep. Richard NugentRep. Sanford Bishop Rep. Dan LipinskiRep. Mark PocanRep. Mike DoyleRep. Betty McCollumRep. Dave LoebsackRep. Jeff FortenberryRep. Tim WalbergRep. Bill JohnsonRep. Mike FitzpatrickRep. Mark Takai Rep. Keith RothfusRep. Todd RokitaRep. Dave TrottRep. Filemon Vela Rep. Ann KirkpatrickRep. Tim RyanRep. Mike BishopRep. Tammy Duckworth ENFORCE Letter to Chairman Kevin Brady and Ranking Member Sander Levin.pdf ###
11.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Michigan City will receive $602,943 under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. The CDBG program aims to develop communities by supporting decent housing, suitable living environments, and expanded economic opportunities. Mayor Ron Meer of Michigan City stated, “Receiving the CDBG grant is vitally important to the work we are doing here in Michigan City, especially in our Westside area. Eliminating blighted structures, providing home improvement assistance, building safe and affordable new homes, and providing improved infrastructure are ways we are leveraging this money into positive change for our community. In addition, this grant money will allow us to continue providing much needed social services for those in need.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I applaud Mayor Meer and the leaders of Michigan City for utilizing this program to improve economic opportunities for the residents of Michigan City. I look forward to seeing the continued positive results of their great work.” For additional information on the CDBG program, click here. ###
10.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Dyer Police Department and the Griffith Police Department will each receive $125,000 from the Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. The COPS Hiring Program grants provide up to 75 percent of the entry-level salary and benefits for a full-time officer for a 36-month period. Dyer Chief of Police David W. Hein indicated that this grant would allow Dyer to dedicate a full-time officer to a new community policing division. Chief Hein stated, “We are very excited about this new opportunity. This award will allow us to have a full-time community presence assigned to be available for school, seniors, and individuals with special needs.” Griffith Police Department Chief Greg Mance stated that this grant would allow the Department to expand their social services. Chief Mance said, “This new officer will support our schools and the re-instated D.A.R.E. Program, as well as partner with non-profit organizations to meet identified community needs.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I congratulate the Dyer and Griffith Police Departments for their commitment to investing in our communities and making our region a safe and inviting place to raise a family and start a business. I appreciate their diligence to seek out and successfully obtain this federal funding.” For additional information on the COPS Hiring Program click here. ###
10.08.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Porter County Regional Airport will receive a $1,437,732 grant award from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Airport Director Kyle Kuebler stated, “This funding represents the third round of programming, which enables the Porter County Regional Airport to continue the reconstruction of its most critical infrastructure asset, its primary east-west runway, allowing the Airport to safely and effectively continue to provide its air transportation accessibility and convenience to our community and region.” This FAA funding is in addition to support from the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA). Bill Hanna, RDA President and CEO, has stated, “Just like the airport in Gary, the Porter County Airport is a significant driver of regional economic activity. A 2012 estimate put its economic impact at more than $17 million annually.” Congressman Visclosky stated, “I applaud the diligent and persistent efforts of Kyle Kuebler and the staff at the Porter County Regional Airport to identify and obtain federal funding opportunities. Investing in transportation infrastructure like the Porter County Airport is essential to growing the Northwest Indiana economy and drawing new families and businesses to our region.” For additional information on the FAA and their grant awards click here. ###
10.06.2015	Washington, DC – Below is the testimony of Congressman Pete Visclosky from today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on welded line pipe, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, members of the Commission, and all of your staff, for your continued work to protect American steelworkers from unfair trade practices. I am always grateful to testify before this Commission, and I appreciate your indulgence as I provided testimony just last week in the case involving cut-to-length carbon plate from China, Russia, and Ukraine. For today’s proceedings, I urge the Commission to make an affirmative injury determination on the illegal import of welded line pipe from Korea and Turkey. I am deeply concerned about the unrelenting efforts of foreign producers to violate our trade laws and breach international trading standards to the detriment and harm of the American steel industry and other manufacturing industries. During a recent meeting with a domestic steel producer, I was provided a copy of an email that they acquired from a company that exports Chinese goods. The email offered to provide information on how to avoid the high antidumping duties levied on products from China by circumventing country of origin labeling requirements. This evidently is a common practice, and is absolutely unacceptable. I recognize that this is an issue addressed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, but I believe this email illustrates how some have a blatant disregard for U.S. trade laws. We cannot stand by and let these producers flood our free market with illegal imports. Specific to today’s case, I would point out that the welded line pipe sector is critical to the overall success of the American steel industry. None of the petitioning companies in this case are located in my district, but flat-rolled steel, which is used in the production of welded line pipe, is a major product manufactured in my district. This shows the interconnectedness and breadth of communities and workers that will be harmed if we continue to allow illegal imports of the product under review today. In 2015, Korea had the highest level of imports of welded line pipe, at 58.9 percent, and Turkey had the fourth highest level, at 6 percent. Between 2012 and the second quarter of 2015, 690 individuals in the welded line pipe sector have lost their jobs, and many more have experienced reduced work hours. We must act now to ensure that our domestic producers do not sustain further irreparable damage. In summation, I would again urge the Commission to make an affirmative injury determination in this case involving welded line pipe from Korea and Turkey. American steelworkers produce the highest quality steel in the world. An affirmative determination in this case would protect these steelworkers from further harm and send a clear message that America does not tolerate illegal trade. I again thank you for your thoughtful and diligent deliberations on this case, and again appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony. ###
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), under the U.S. Department of Commerce, announced a $3,000,000 award to the City of Gary for investing in Buffington Harbor Drive infrastructure. According to the EDA, this funding will provide for the construction of critical road infrastructure that will facilitate routing for commercial and light industrial transportation to the area’s interstate, rail, and air distribution network. The funding also will support moving truck access that will facilitate the future development of the Gary/Chicago International Airport. Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson stated, “We are humbled by the vote of confidence as evidenced by the EDA grant. We believe that this road that will result from the grant will support existing and future business that will translate to jobs for Gary residents. We appreciate the opportunity to work with Regional Director Jeanette Tamayo and her team.” “The Buffington Harbor road project will help to jump-start development in the Gary/Chicago International Airport footprint and continues to leverage the investment made there by the city, state, FAA, RDA, and private partners,” said Bill Hanna, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority. Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I applaud Mayor Freeman-Wilson for her dedicated efforts to identify federal, state, and regional resources to support the City of Gary. Today’s announcement is another example of her successful approach to improve economic opportunities in the City of Gary.” For additional information on the EDA, click here. ###
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the National Park Service Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) has awarded a $200,000.00 grant to the Lake County Park Board for Deep River Park. The Lake County Park Board will use this funding to support their efforts to acquire 97 acres of land along Deep River and adjacent to Deep River County Park. The grant will also support the development of a 1.25 mile trail around the Big Maple Lakes and the construction of recreational amenities, such as picnic shelters, restrooms, and parking lots. The LWCF program provides matching grants for local and state park projects outside of national park boundaries. Since 1965, the National Park Service has provided more than 40,000 LWCF grants to states and local communities. “Every nature park and scenic trail in Northwest Indiana provides immeasurable benefits to residents while attracting new people and economic activity to the area. I am happy that the Lake County Park Board was able to successfully obtain federal funding to support the acquisition of new park land and enhance our bike trail system,” said Congressman Visclosky. “The LWCF program is a critical conservation resource. I have submitted programmatic requests in support of this program to the House Appropriations Committee for Fiscal Year 2016 and in years past, and I will continue to do my utmost to ensure that this program is appropriately funded and reauthorized. We must do more to preserve the wonderful natural resources of Northwest Indiana for future generations.” For additional information on the LWCF program click here. ###
09.29.2015	Washington, DC – Below is the testimony of Congressman Pete Visclosky at today’s International Trade Commission (ITC) hearing on cut-to-length carbon steel plate, as prepared for delivery. I would like to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, all of the members of the Commission, and your staff, for your hard work to ensure that American workers, particularly those in the domestic steel industry, are protected from injury because of violations of international trade standards. I deeply appreciate this opportunity to testify as part of today’s hearing regarding cut-to-length carbon steel plate from China, Russia, and Ukraine. As a representative and resident of Northwest Indiana, one of our nation’s foremost steel-producing regions, I am acutely aware of the challenges facing the American steel industry due to the onslaught of illegal foreign imports. ArcelorMittal makes cut-to-length carbon steel plate at its Burns Harbor facility in my district, and employs hundreds of dedicated United Steelworkers at that plant. Both are impacted by this case, and both are under daily attack from illegal imports. Since 2010, ArcelorMittal has invested $1.5 billion in its U.S. operations. However, during the same time period, the company experienced a domestic profit loss equal to that amount. We cannot continue to allow our domestic producers to flounder while foreign competitors gain a greater foothold in our market by violating U.S. trade laws. I have fought for steel my entire career, including during the second review of this case. On September 9, 2009, I stood here before the Commission and spoke about how critical it was to maintain penalties for countries that violate our trade laws. I spoke about how American steel companies and steelworkers make the best steel on the planet, and I stated that if they are competing on a level playing field, they would win every time. The remarks then still stand true today. I am very concerned that if given the opportunity, China, Russia, and Ukraine will not hesitate to resume their illegal dumping practices in our country. This past March, I co-chaired the Congressional Steel Caucus’s annual “State of the Steel Industry” hearing, where industry and union leaders shared prevalent concerns regarding illegal steel imports. The message of each witness at the hearing was clear: foreign producers continue to violate our laws, and if we do not act urgently to hold them accountable for their actions the domestic industry will continue to suffer. Mario Longhi, President and CEO of the United States Steel Corporation, specifically spoke about how appalling it is that the process for determining material injury takes so long, and that by the time relief reaches domestic steel companies, irreparable damage is already done. Congress and the Administration recognized the severity of this problem and this past June approved P.L. 114-27, the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, which updated the definition of injury to make it more suitable for the year 2015. I was proud to support this legislation, as it ensures that injury cannot be denied simply because an industry is profitable or because its performance has recently improved. It also requires that real-world factors such as the actual and potential decline in output and the utilization of capacity be used to determine injury. I appreciate that the Commission has adopted this new definition for the review of this case. Our domestic steel manufacturers and steelworkers need the ITC to take action. I urge you to maintain the existing anti-dumping orders on cut-to-length steel plate from China, and the suspension agreements from Russia and Ukraine. Cut-to-length carbon steel plate is an essential component of American infrastructure, and it is used to build bridges, railway equipment, and structures throughout the nation. We have a responsibility to ensure that American infrastructure and our national defense infrastructure is built by American steel. We have a responsibility to ensure that the American steel industry is not eviscerated by illegally traded imports. We have a responsibility to send a clear message to our global trading partners, our domestic manufacturers, our steelworkers, and our nation, that our government enforces our trading laws. I again thank you for your serious and thorough consideration of this case, and I again deeply appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony today. ###
09.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy, Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky, and 67 other Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus have called on President Obama to address long-standing steel issues with Chinese President Xi during his visit to the United States. Detailed in a letter sent to President Obama yesterday, the bipartisan lawmakers stated that American steelworkers are under attack every day from illegal Chinese imports, and that it is past time that we take action. The letter requests that President Obama address Chinese government policies related to illegal subsidies, currency manipulation, and state-owned enterprises. Chairman Murphy stated, “We have the most talented workforce making the world’s highest quality products, yet the American domestic steel sector is getting trampled on because the Administration is not willing to stand up to China’s illegal dumping and currency manipulation. Simply put, the American steel industry, and consequently economy, cannot thrive as Chinese steel continues to wreak havoc on our manufacturing, natural gas and auto industries. The Administration cannot allow China’s current illegal practices to continue as more than one million Americans jobs are on the line. We urge the President in the strongest of terms to take action.” Vice Chairman Visclosky stated, “China is illegally exporting their steel. They are selling an inferior product below production costs and that is placing our free market system in great peril. Chinese steel is destroying our nation’s manufacturing base and threatening our nation’s defense. We must fight for American steel and a fair playing field for current and future steelworkers.” Below is the text of the letter and a PDF of the signed version. Dear Mr. President, We write today as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to request that you address long-standing issues of great importance to the American steel industry during Chinese President Xi’s upcoming visit. Since 2000, Chinese steel production has increased by 695 million metric tons, which is nearly eight times the total amount of steel produced in the United States. China currently produces as much steel as the rest of the world combined. Through the first seven months of 2015, China has exported 67 million metric tons of steel, which is a 27 percent increase over 2014 figures. Much of this Chinese steel arrives on American shores, and is sold artificially low at approximately 25 percent less than the steel that is produced domestically. We know that America makes the best steel in the world, but we cannot compete against China when they do not play by the same market rules. We request that you specifically address the issues below with President Xi. Illegal Subsidies – At the heart of the growth in Chinese steel production are illegal government subsidies. During U.S. trade case proceedings, the Department of Commerce has specifically identified illegal Chinese subsidies, including preferential lending through state-owned commercial or policy banks, assistance providing electricity, inputs, and land, and the direct transfer of government funds to Chinese steel producers. Currency Manipulation - China continues to manipulate its currency in order to give their steel producers an unfair advantage in the U.S. market. Despite recent announcements, China’s currency is not freely tradable and the government still controls its value. Unless China addresses this issue or the U.S. establishes currency manipulation as a countervailable duty, China’s currency practices will continue to devastate American steel. State-Owned Enterprises – It is estimated that 95 percent of steel produced by the top 20 Chinese steel groups is from state-owned enterprises. These producers operate under bureaucratic policies and not market principles. The Chinese government also has established a policy objective of “more effectively bringing about the role of government and guiding the next ten years of the steel industry’s development.” American steelworkers are under attack every day from cheap Chinese imports. It is past time that we take action. We thank you for the opportunity to express our concerns and appreciate your consideration of addressing these critical issues with President Xi. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Murphy, Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressman Peter J. Visclosky, Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus 9.24.15.Steel Caucus POTUS Letter Chinese Steel.pdf ###
09.24.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky released the statement below following Pope Francis’ address to the U.S. Congress. “I was honored to attend the historic address by Pope Francis to Congress this morning. “I am heartened by Pope Francis’ encouragement to persevere in the tireless and demanding pursuit of the common good, and his reminder that legislative activity is always based on care for the people. This is a reminder of the values we should all share. “Our country faces numerous, challenging problems, but if we cooperate together for the common good of all people, in our districts, our country, and our world, we can, as we have in the past, find solutions to these problems.” ###
09.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded grants to four Northwest Indiana community health centers. The grants are under the Health Center Cluster program. The funding aims to improve the operations and services provided at these centers. The grants include $378,112.00 for NorthShore Health Centers, $321,310.00 for HealthLinc, $279,196.00 for Community HealthNet, and $245,758.00 for Regional Mental Health Center. CEO of NorthShore Health Centers Jan Wilson stated that their grant will allow them to expand services and after hour care at their Hammond facility. They also will add a new physician at their Portage location. Wilson stated, “We are thankful to Congressman Visclosky and are very pleased to be able to expand our services in Lake and Porter Counties due to this grant.” CEO of HealthLinc Beth Wrobel indicated that this grant will allow them to expand services at several of their facilities, including a dentist in Valparaiso, a clinical pharmacist in Michigan City, and a community health worker in East Chicago. Wrobel stated, “We know that the management of individual health and access to proper medical and behavioral care is challenging for many families struggling to find quality and affordable care. We are excited about the opportunity we were given with this grant to expand our services and help reduce that barrier.” Executive Director of Community HealthNet Janet Seabrook stated that the funding will allow them to hire a clinical psychologist, a case manager, and a social worker. Seabrook stated, “We are very excited about this grant. Because of this funding we are able to offer a fully integrated behavioral health program for all that we serve.” President and CEO of Regional Mental Health Center Robert Krumwied stated that this funding will allow them to extend hours and services at their Hammond facility. Krumwied stated, “We appreciate the support of Congressman Visclosky. This is a wonderful opportunity for us to expand needed services in the Hammond community.” Congressman Pete Visclosky stated, “I deeply appreciate the invaluable health care services that community health centers provide in Northwest Indiana. I congratulate these centers for successfully securing federal funds, and I am grateful that this new funding will allow them to expand and improve upon the great work they already do for our communities.” ###
09.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded a $256,284.00 grant to the Michigan City Municipal Airport. This federal funding under the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP) will be used to remove tree obstructions and improve an existing runway. The funding also will be used to plan for a future runway extension and enable the airport to meet runway safety and protection zone standards. Mr. Greg Poulin, President of the Board of Aviation Commissioners at the Michigan City Municipal Airport, stated, “The federally funded AIP continues to support airport development here at the Michigan City Municipal Airport. Without these funds, the benefits this airport provides to our community would not be possible. I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for ensuring that funding for the FAA’s AIP remains steadfast in providing modernization and safety for general aviation airports.” “I am proud of the Michigan City Municipal Airport for successfully securing this federal funding that will improve their current and future aviation operations,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Investing in economic infrastructure is the key to attracting new families and businesses to our region, and I thank Mr. Poulin and the administration at the Michigan City Municipal Airport for their commitment to investing in the future of their facility and our economy.” ###
09.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) with $300,000 to implement transit-oriented development planning activities for the extension of the South Shore Railroad from Hammond to Dyer. The funding is from the Transit-Oriented Development Planning Awards Pilot Program under the Federal Transit Administration. The grant supports various planning activities, including those related to the development of station-area plans that incorporate transit-oriented development best practices of mixed uses, design guidelines and parking requirements, multi-modal connectivity plans, and the encouragement of private sector involvement. General Manager for NICTD, Mr. Mike Noland, stated, “This is great news. The timing on the grant award validates the commitment being made by all three communities - Munster, Dyer, and Hammond - to design stations that provide opportunities for neighborhoods to grow along the West Lake Corridor and the region to flourish. This grant will focus attention on effective planning strategies and tools that encourage livable communities. We look forward to working with the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority on this important initiative.” Mr. Bill Hanna, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority, said, “Well planed and implemented development around commuter rail is one of the most effective opportunities for growth and access to jobs in the Chicago economy. A strong plan that is done in partnership with and tailored to each of our communities will attract significant private investment to Northwest Indiana.” Congressman Visclosky stated, “This Department of Transportation funding is but one piece of the many pieces that have come together to bring the extension of the South Shore Railroad closer to reality. I am thankful for the leadership and resolve of Mr. Noland and Mr. Hanna to see through this investment in the future of Northwest Indiana. I am convinced that the extension of the South Shore Railroad will spread the economic vitality of the Chicagoland area into Northwest Indiana and allow our region to become the next great economic engine of the state of Indiana.” For additional information on the Department of Transportation grant, click here. ###
09.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that three Northwest Indiana organizations will receive $125,000 each from the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program. This program is directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The program provides grants to support the initiatives of community coalitions to create and sustain a reduction in youth substance use. The Northwest Indiana awardees include the Community Organizations for Families and Youth (COFFY), the Lake County Substance Abuse Council, and the LaPorte County Drug Free Partnership. According to Mr. Jerome Flagg with COFFY, the DFC grant will assist their mission to improve the quality of life for the residents in the City of Gary. Mr. Flagg stated, “COFFY has worked tirelessly over the past ten years to address issues such as violence, substance abuse, and crime among our youth. The DFC grant, in coordination with Gary Neighborhood Services, Inc., will be used to further our efforts to empower youth and reduce substance abuse and violence.” Ms. Amanda Morrison of the Lake County Substance Abuse Council stated that the DFC grant will assist their efforts to reduce underage drinking and marijuana use in Merrillville. “This grant will help our coalition break social norms and get the word out about the harmful effects of underage drinking and marijuana use,” said Ms. Morrison. The LaPorte County Drug Free Partnership Grant Coordinator, Ms. Michelle Webb, stated that this funding will assist with their efforts to make LaPorte County healthier. Ms. Webb stated, “The DFC grant will allow us to continue the momentum to reduce underage drinking, youth access to marijuana, and non-medical prescription drug misuse.” “I congratulate these organizations on their ability to obtain federal funding that will allow them to better provide invaluable drug-prevention resources to Northwest Indiana communities,” said Congressman Visclosky. “I am heartened by their commitment to investing in the youth of Northwest Indiana. Their important work has a direct positive impact on the quality of life for so many families, and I look forward to seeing the results of their continued success.” For additional information on the awards and the DFC Support Program, click here. ###
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Visclosky released the following statement in support of the Iran nuclear agreement, also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: As the Ranking Member on the Defense Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, I am acutely aware of the harmful influence the Islamic Republic of Iran and its proxies have on the security situation in the Greater Middle East. Simply put, Iran pursues policies that threaten U.S. strategic interests and goals throughout the Middle East, often by enflaming sectarian tensions that are exploited by violent extremist elements in the region. However, despite my clear and deep mistrust of Iran, I firmly support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). This hard-fought multilateral agreement will severely limit Iran’s nuclear ambitions, establish a verifiable and robust inspection regime, allow for the timely reinstatement of sanctions for violations of this agreement, and in no way limit U.S. military options. If fully implemented and rigorously enforced, the JCPOA will result in the removal of a source of risk and uncertainty within the region for the foreseeable future. I believe this will substantially increase the security for our nation and all of our regional allies. Under the JCPOA, Iran’s access to nuclear material will be significantly curtailed from what we know exists today. Specifically, Iran will not produce or acquire either highly enriched uranium or weapons-grade plutonium for at least 15 years, and they will reduce their stockpile of low enriched uranium by 98 percent, from 12,000 kilograms to 300 kilograms. Additionally, two-thirds of Iran’s centrifuges will be removed from nuclear facilities, to be secured and constantly monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Also important to note is the commitment Iran has made under the agreement to not pursue certain research and development programs directly linked to the development of a nuclear weapon. All told, these restrictions significantly increase the amount of time Iran would need to produce enough fissile material for a weapon and to build a nuclear device. The agreement provides for the establishment of a verifiable and robust inspection system, including constant monitoring of Iran’s known nuclear facilities throughout the entire chain of development, from the uranium mines to its centrifuges. Access to the supply chain makes it improbable that Iran could establish a covert nuclear program without detection. Further, the JCPOA ensures continuous monitoring of Iran’s declared nuclear facilities and IAEA inspectors can request access to any location they suspect is involved with nuclear activities, including military sites. In anticipation of difficulties with access, the JCPOA contains a dispute resolution mechanism should Iran deny the IAEA access to any site. While the time allowed for the dispute resolution process has been criticized as too lengthy, I am certain any suspicious site will receive the full attention of U.S. observation assets during that period. Additionally, nuclear inspection experts express the utmost confidence that IAEA environmental sampling would detect the presence of any nuclear material. In order to receive new sanctions relief, Iran must satisfy IAEA demands about the possible military dimensions of its nuclear program, dismantle the vast majority of its uranium capability, and remove the core from the Arak reactor. To receive full relief from the remaining sanctions, Iran must continue meeting commitments for the years agreed to in the JCPOA. If the terms of the agreement are not met at any time, the JCPOA provides for the ability to re-impose both unilateral and multilateral nuclear-related sanctions. And notably, the agreement allows the U.S. and its European allies to re-impose United Nations sanctions over the objections of any member of the Security Council, including China or Russia. Further, the JCPOA only applies to nuclear-related sanctions. The United States will maintain several strong sanctions authorities due to Iran’s designation as a state sponsor of terrorism and for its abysmal record on human rights. For example, U.S. sanctions will continue to apply to several top-level officials in Iran’s security apparatus, to the transfer of weapons of mass destruction technologies, missile technologies, and conventional weapons. Finally, the agreement in no way constrains the U.S. military options at our disposal, as has been repeatedly pointed out by General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in testimony before Congress. I cannot argue that the JCPOA is perfect, and I share the frustration expressed by its opponents with its limited scope. In particular, I would have preferred if the agreement kept the constraints on Iran’s nuclear program for longer periods of time, further reduced the number of operational centrifuges, did not allow for the future elimination of sanctions on conventional arms and ballistic missiles, contained restrictions on Iran’s use of the sanctions relief, and addressed the detention of American citizens in Iran. However, in any negotiation, especially one with many sovereign nations, each having their own economic and security considerations, some compromise is necessary. Critically, I believe the agreement reached accomplishes the goal of preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I fundamentally disagree with those supporters of the deal who have stated that “war” will be the immediate result if the agreement is rejected, and find that opponents of the deal have only presented alternatives that are best described as delusional. Rather, I concur with the sentiments of my esteemed friend, and former Senator, Richard Lugar, who recently wrote that Congressional rejection of the Iran deal would, “kill the last chance for Washington to reach a verifiable Iranian commitment not to build a nuclear weapon,” and, “destroy the effective coalition that brought Iran to the negotiating table.” We cannot reasonably expect foreign nations, even our closest allies, to continue making costly sacrifices at our demand if the U.S. unilaterally withdraws from its commitment to the JCPOA. And I can say with some confidence that China and Russia will have no hesitation to resume trade with Iran if the agreement were rejected. Iran negotiated because of crippling sanctions and a unified international community, neither of which will exist should Congress reject this agreement. The ultimate success or failure of the JCPOA will be determined by time and verification based on Iranian behavior. However, it is vital for the duration of the agreement that the U.S. leads the international community to maintain focus on Iran’s compliance and ensure that Iran does not undermine regional stability through other pathways, negating the security gains from this agreement. To accomplish this, we must remain steadfast in our commitments to all of our regional partners, including Israel, and help improve their capacity to counter Iran and mitigate the effects of their malign activity. Additionally, we must keep combining diplomacy, economic pressure, and the resolve to keep military options on the table. Assuming the agreement is affirmed, I ask all to constructively work to improve the security situation in the Middle East rather than using all their energy to undermine the agreement. We cannot rely on force of arms alone to bring lasting stability to any region of our world. And I hope that the exhaustive multilateral negotiations that led to the JCPOA will serve as a template for future U.S. and international engagement on other outstanding issues that have led to instability and violence in the region. ###
09.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded a grant to the Griffith-Merrillville Airport to perform an environmental assessment study. According to the FAA, the $140,106 award will allow the airport to evaluate any potential environmental impacts related to the future acquisition of land adjacent to the facility. Mr. Craig Anderson, General Manager and Vice President of the Griffith-Merrillville Airport, stated, “The future acquisition of this area will allow us to remove existing and potential obstructions and further protect the approach to one of our runways. We appreciate the continued assistance and support of Congressman Visclosky.” “I applaud the initiative of the Griffith-Merrillville Airport for seeking out this opportunity to secure federal funding and improve economic infrastructure in Northwest Indiana,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Mr. Anderson and the dedicated staff at the airport have a vision for the expansion of their facility, and I am pleased that they are making key investments that will benefit the Northwest Indiana economy.” ###
09.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Hebron Fire Department will receive $20,434 in award funding from the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The AFG program aims to directly assist fire departments and enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. Hebron Fire Department Chief Chad Franzman stated, “This grant provides us with the opportunity to replace our 22-year-old equipment that is used to extract individuals trapped in vehicles. Today’s vehicles are very different from what they were in the past. This funding will put the latest tools in the hands of our first responders and allow them to better help people when they need it the most.” “During these tight budget times, it is very helpful to receive funding for safety equipment that will provide great benefit to the Hebron Fire Department and the Hebron community,” said President of the Hebron Town Council Don Ensign. “We are very grateful for this grant and for the continued support of Congressman Visclosky.” “I commend the Hebron Fire Department for aggressively pursuing federal funding to improve public safety,” said Congressman Visclosky. “First responders and the Hebron community deserve the best and most effective equipment available. I am pleased that this funding will further enhance the ability of the Hebron Fire Department to perform their critical and life-saving services.” For additional information on this award and the AFG program, please click here. ###
09.04.2015	“I supported the Affordable Care Act (ACA) because I wanted to ensure that every American has access to quality and affordable health care. However, one provision of the ACA, often incorrectly referred to as a ‘Cadillac Tax,’ will be particularly burdensome on families, many of whom have collectively bargained for their long-term health care at the expense of other forms of compensation and benefits. “This is unacceptable to me. That is why, after careful review, I have decided to cosponsor Rep. Joe Courtney’s (D-CT) legislation that would repeal the 40 percent tax on health insurance expenditures over $10,200 per person and $27,500 per family, scheduled to go into effect in 2018. “I urge my colleagues to remove this provision and continue to work together to improve the ability of the ACA to achieve its goal of providing quality and affordable insurance to all Americans and their families.” ###
09.03.2015	Washington, D.C – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the National Science Foundation (NSF) will award Valparaiso University with a grant under their Major Research Instrumentation and Chemistry Research Instrumentation and Facilities programs. The award totals $223,753, and will support the acquisition of an ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) instrument. According to Valparaiso University, the UHPLC instrument separates components of liquid mixtures and offers multiple options for the detection and measurement of the components. One of the areas of research that this award will focus on is the study of the water in Lake Michigan and the Great Lakes water system. The data generated will have significant impacts toward addressing environmental challenges, improving wastewater treatment technologies, and progressing processes for water reuse. While the UHPLC instrument will be located on the Valparaiso University campus, students and faculty from neighboring and collaborating institutions, including Ivy Tech and Indiana University Northwest, will also be involved in the new research. “We are very excited about the acquisition,” said Dr. Julie Peller of Valparaiso University. “The instrument will allow for the expansion of current research and for the capability to venture into new research projects.” “I applaud Dr. Peller and the faculty of Valparaiso University for their pursuit of federal funding to support research into one of the world’s greatest natural resources - Lake Michigan and the Great Lakes water system,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Water is essential to our lives and livelihoods, and I am pleased that the people at Valparaiso University are using their great talents to further our ability to understand and preserve water for the betterment of all of us.” For additional information on the NSF award, please visit their website here. ###
09.02.2015	Washington, D.C – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today the Fiscal Year 2015 awards from the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program for Northwest Indiana communities. The awards total $29,662.46, and will provide matching federal funding to support the acquisition of 85 vests for 12 local law enforcement departments. Congressman Visclosky along with Congressman LoBiondo (NJ-2) co-authored the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program to ensure local law enforcement departments throughout the country have the support of the federal government to provide their officers with critical lifesaving protection. “I worked to create this program because of instances when criminals had bulletproof vests and our law enforcement officers did not,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Police officers on the front line need the tools necessary to do their jobs. Recent headlines remind us of continued needs in our communities, and I am encouraged that police departments in Northwest Indiana are continuing to take advantage of this program.” Additional information on the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program can be found at www.ojp.gov/bvpbasi/home.html. Below are the police departments from Indiana’s First Congressional District receiving funds in Fiscal Year 2015. Jurisdiction Award Amount Number of Vests Chesterton Town $ 1,318.16 3 Crown Point City $ 2,343.39 6 Griffith Town $ 4,752.23 15 Hobart City $ 4,613.55 14 Kouts Town $ 2,548.44 6 Lowell Town $ 1,904.00 6 Munster Town $ 2,965.85 11 Portage City $ 4,750.24 14 Schererville Town $ 839.71 2 Trail Creek Town $ 1,930.37 3 Valparaiso City $ 329.54 1 Westville Town $ 1,366.98 4 Total $ 29,662.46 85 ###
08.28.2015	Merrillville, IN-Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Portage Fire Department received $785,882 through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security-Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The federal funding will allow six regional fire departments to enhance their services by purchasing updated self-contained breathing apparatus equipment. These departments include Portage, Ogden Dunes, Chesterton, South Haven, Burns Harbor, and Porter. Upon receiving the grant, Assistant Chief Tim Sosby stated, “We are very grateful to receive this grant. To know that we will also be able to help five other departments brings us great joy. Our breathing machines in all of the departments are around ten to twelve years old and we desperately needed an upgrade. This grant will allow us to replace 135 machines and enhance the safety of our firefighters. Last, we cannot express enough gratitude to Congressman Visclosky and his support for grant programs such as these.” “Portage Fire Department was proud to lead in this effort. Portage believes in regionalism at every level. Residents know that in Portage the emergency medical care they receive is the finest, and this is another example of how we join with others to keep that care and safety the very best. We know we can count on the Congressman to receive the support we need in all of these endeavors,” said Mayor James Snyder. “I commend Chief Fieffer, Assistant Chief Sosby, the Portage Fire Department and all of the fire departments involved in securing this grant. I am proud to support grant programs that help ensure the safety of the dedicated men and women who keep Northwest Indiana safe,” said Congressman Visclosky. For more information about the Portage Fire Department please visit: https://www.ci.portage.in.us/department/?fDD=5-0 ###
08.24.2015	U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky is proud to announce that St. John resident Zac Maciejewski successfully completed a summer internship offered through his Merrillville District Office. Zac is entering his junior year of studies at Wabash College, where he is majoring in Political Science with minors in History and Spanish. After graduation, Zac plans to continue his education by attending law school. While attending Wabash College, Zac participates in several extracurricular activities. He serves as secretary of both the Spanish Club and the Wabash College Dance Marathon. Additionally, he is the logistics chairman of the Wabash Benefaction Committee, and a member of the Senior Council Activities Committee. He is also a proud member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. “I appreciate Zac’s hard work while serving as an intern in my congressional office. During his internship, Zac continuously addressed the constituents’ needs courteously, with a sense of professionalism, and demonstrated an attention to detail beyond his years. I wish him continued success throughout his academic and professional career,” said Congressman Visclosky. Zac stated, “During my internship, I realized the lengths to which the Congressman and his staff go to help the constituents of Indiana’s First Congressional District. Pete is not here for personal or political gain; he is here to better the lives of his constituents.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his District and Washington, D.C. Offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college and be eligible to receive school or service organization credit. For more information visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships. ###
08.21.2015	Merrillville, IN-Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Lake Hills Volunteer Fire Department received $145,334 through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security-Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The federal funding will allow the volunteer fire department to enhance its services by improving its operations and ensuring firefighters’ safety. Upon receiving the grant, Chief Shane Adams stated, “The Lake Hills Volunteer Fire Department is very grateful to receive this grant. Our current air packs are fifteen years old and will no longer be of use due to the National Fire Protection Association Standards. The grant will help us purchase the new equipment and improve our fire department.” “I commend Chief Adams and the Lake Hills Volunteer Fire Department for their dedicated service to their community. I am proud to support grant programs that provide necessary personal safety equipment to the men and women who selflessly keep Northwest Indiana safe,” said Congressman Visclosky. For more information about the Lake Hills Volunteer Fire Department please visit: https://www.indianafiretrucks.com/pages/lake/lake_hills.html. ###
08.19.2015	Merrillville, IN-U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky is proud to announce that Dyer resident Jonathan Van Hecke successfully completed a summer internship offered through his Merrillville District Office. Jonathan is entering his sophomore year of studies at Indiana University Bloomington. He is enrolled in the Kelley School of Business, studying Finance and International Studies with a minor in French. Upon graduation, Jonathan intends to pursue a career in international banking and corporate finance in the entertainment industry. At Indiana University, Jonathan works for the student radio station, WIUX 99.1 FM, as a disc jockey and music journalist. Additionally, he serves as the music coordinator for the Collins Art Council, where he manages the audio production studio and coordinates music events hosted on campus. “I appreciate Jonathan’s willingness to intern in my Congressional office. Jonathan demonstrated leadership, efficiency, and dedication while serving constituents in each responsibility he was entrusted. I know these attributes will serve him well in the future,” said Congressman Visclosky. Jonathan stated, “More than anything I have gained the incomparable experience of meeting and coming to understand unique individuals with distinctive perspectives as they have flowed in and out of the office. The internship has afforded me this humanity.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his District and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college and be eligible to receive school or service organization credit. For more information visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships. ###
08.11.2015	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services - Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) awarded a $541,667 grant to Porter-Starke Services, Inc. to establish a federally qualified health center in Gary, Indiana. “I congratulate CEO Rocco Schiralli, the entire Porter-Starke Services staff, and the Porter-Starke Services Board of Directors for securing this federal grant funding to support and improve access to quality health care in Northwest Indiana.” “We believe that quality of life begins with good health,” said Rocco Schiralli, President/CEO of Porter-Starke Services. “With that in mind, our health care center will implement excellent prevention and treatment services. Clinicians and patients will work together to achieve strong bodies and strong minds,” said Schiralli. For more information on Porter-Starke Services, Inc., please visit: https://www.porterstarke.org ###
07.29.2015	Merrillville, IN-Congressman Visclosky recently hosted the 2015 Congressional Art Competition in Indiana’s First Congressional District. Alison Goetz of Kouts was selected as the winner. Goetz designed a piece named “Captain America” that emulates the late President Abraham Lincoln. This past June, Alison graduated from Morgan Township High School and plans on attending Purdue University in the fall. “When I received the phone call that I had won I was in complete shock. It was extremely special to me since it was my senior year and I was attending such a small school. I recently visited the United States Capitol and remembered seeing the pictures hanging in the tunnel. I would never have thought my next visit to our nation’s capital would be to celebrate my artwork representing Indiana’s First Congressional District,” said Goetz. Goetz’ artwork will be on display in the United States Capitol for the next year. She recently was able to visit Washington, D.C., and met with other winners from throughout the United States. “I extend my congratulations to Alison and all of the talented participants for their dedication to the arts,” said Congressman Visclosky. For additional information on the Congressional Art Competition, please click here. ###
07.20.2015	Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the United States Department of Education has awarded a $289,901 grant to Purdue University North Central. “I congratulate Chancellor Dworkin and the entire Purdue University faculty and staff for ensuring that students have access to the resources they need in order to succeed,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. The grant was awarded under the Department of Education’s Student Support Services Program. The Student Support Services Program (SSS) provides academic and other support services to low-income students, first generation students, or students with disabilities. The purpose of the program is to increase student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster an institutional climate supportive of their success. “PNC has been a part of the TRIO program since the 1980s and has served thousands of students,” said Purdue University North Central Chancellor Dr. James B. Dworkin. “With TRIO, age, gender, race, income and capabilities are not an issue. Rather, the focus is on learning, sharing ideas, opening doors and broadening interests. Thanks to TRIO, PNC students have received vital services that have helped them flourish academically and socially and provided them with skills to ensure success beyond their days at PNC. TRIO has had an immeasurable impact on their lives. These talented, accomplished students have gone on to have successful careers in our communities.” For more information on Purdue University North Central, please visit: www.pnc.edu ###
07.17.2015	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky joined Lisa Daugherty, CEO and President of Lake Area United Way, and Dr. Chenn Zhou, Executive Director at the Center for Visualization through Simulation (CIVS), in the launch of the newly designed Canstruction 3D-Design Software. Canstruction Northwest Indiana “Superheroes Against Hunger” is a collaborative initiative led by Lake Area United Way and the United Way of Porter County in cooperation with Congressman Pete Visclosky. “I appreciate the ingenuity and cooperation displayed throughout this entire project. Canstruction has been an innovative way for youths to work directly in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. I commend the Lake Area United Way, United Way of Porter County, and all of the volunteers for their outstanding work on this initiative,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. Canstruction is an educational experience for middle-school students from Lake and Porter Counties. Throughout the process, students learn the basics of the academic disciplines of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) to design and build structures made entirely of canned food. The 2015 Canstruction participating teams include: Boys and Girls Club Northwest Indiana, Cedar Lake Branch Boys and Girls Club of Porter County, Duneland Branch Boys and Girls Club of Porter County, South Haven Branch Boys and Girls Club of Porter County, Valparaiso Branch Campagna Academy Duneland Family YWCA Griffith Family YWCA YWCA of Northwest Indiana More on Canstruction software developed by CIVS: CIVS has developed software that allows participants to design and make modifications to their structures using 3D simulation. The software uses 3DS Max and Unity to allow anyone to add, move, or delete one of several can models in a 3D environment to get a preview of their designs before the build day. The software is available online so students can be accessed from any computer. The software also keeps track of the number of each type of can used and their approximate prices in order to help the teams manage their budgets. For additional information on the Canstruction Project, please visit: https://www.canstructionnwi.org ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Pete Visclosky offered an amendment to Trade Promotion Authority legislation that would improve U.S. trade laws. These provisions are supported by the American Iron and Steel Institute, which includes ArcelorMittal and U.S. Steel, and the Alliance for American Manufacturing, which includes the United Steelworkers. The provisions would aim to ensure that the Department of Commerce has the appropriate information to make better decisions on trade cases, and would aim to modernize the definition of “material injury” so that trade case determinations can be made before the American jobs are outsourced. Specifically, these provisions would: Strengthen and improve anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws; Establish a means to petition Customs and Border Protection to take action in a timely manner to combat the evasion of anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders; Enhance the ability of the Department of Commerce to select appropriate facts when a foreign party fails to cooperate with an unfair trade investigation; Clarify that the International Trade Commission (ITC) should not deny relief merely because the domestic industry is profitable or because its performance has recently improved, and clarify the factors the ITC should consider in making its material injury determination; and Decrease the amount of time it takes to reach a final ITC trade case determination. These provisions are included in H.R. 2523, the American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act, as well as in a Senate approved customs measure and the House approved customs measure approved on June 12, 2015. Rep. Visclosky supported the House approved measure, H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. The House approved H.R. 644 by a vote of 240 to 190. However, because the overall House measure differs from that approved by the Senate, it is now subject to a House-Senate conference. “By the time American companies win a trade case, the American jobs have already been shipped overseas, never to return,” said Congressman Visclosky. “We must strengthen our trade laws so that American workers can compete on a level playing field.” During the Rules Committee hearing, a Democratic Member of the Committee, Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL), offered a motion to make in order Rep. Visclosky’s amendment to Trade Promotion Authority. Unfortunately, the motion was defeated by a vote of three to seven. Congressman Visclosky is committed to defending American workers and ensuring that they are able to compete on a level playing field. ###
06.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky advanced a Buy America amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior Appropriations Act. The amendment strikes harmful provisions that would have weakened Buy America requirements for projects receiving funding through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. Specifically, the amendment removed provisions that would have allowed products that were “substantially transformed” in the United State to meet the Buy America requirements. Under the revised provisions, EPA Drinking Water State Revolving Fund projects must use iron and steel products produced in the United States. The amendment had the support of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, which includes the United Steelworkers, and the American Iron and Steel Institute, which includes ArcelorMittal and U.S. Steel. “We have a responsibility to see that American taxpayer dollars support American jobs,” said Congressman Visclosky. “I am pleased that the Committee approved this Buy America amendment that ensures the use of American iron and steel.” The amendment was approved by voice vote today during the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior Appropriations Act. Congressman Visclosky is committed to creating good-paying jobs and investing in America’s infrastructure with American iron and steel. ###
06.12.2015	Mr. Speaker: I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 1314, which allows for fast track Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) for trade agreements entered into prior to July 1, 2021, including the prospective Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T-TIP). Past trade agreements have outsourced American jobs and caused irreparable harm to our domestic manufacturing base. I believe that TPP, T-TIP, and other potential future agreements will be no different. Throughout my career, I have voted against unfair trade agreements. I voted against the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which was sold on the promise of creating 200,000 American jobs. After enactment, the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) estimates that America lost 682,900 jobs, primarily in the manufacturing sector. I voted against the Korea Free Trade Agreement, which was sold on the promise of creating 70,000 American jobs. After enactment, again the EPI estimates that America lost 60,000 jobs. The future trade agreements we are discussing today are being sold on the promise of creating more American jobs. That argument may continue to work for some. But I am not buying it. There has been a bipartisan failure, administration after administration, to address the effects of unfair trade on domestic manufacturers. Democrat and Republican administrations have been wrong to support irresponsible trade agreements in the past that have exacerbated the problems faced by American workers. President Obama is wrong in this instance. Congress should instead support trade agreements that substantially improve our existing trade laws and enhance our ability to enforce them in a timely fashion. We should only support trade agreements that include strong enforcement procedures, address currency manipulation, provide environmental protections, and protect American manufacturers from competing unfairly with exploited foreign workers. It is wrong to expect American workers to compete against state-owned enterprises that have unlimited government resources and violate our free market trade laws. American manufacturing and the steel industry are struggling every day to keep their footing in the fight against unfair trade. Earlier this year, I co-chaired a Congressional Steel Caucus hearing where industry and labor representatives unanimously agreed that America’s steel sector is being systematically targeted by trading partners that use the U.S. market as their dumping ground. Just this month, six American steel producers, including two producers with facilities in my district, filed anti-dumping and countervailing duty petitions against foreign countries engaged in illegal trade practices. While I am pleased that American steel producers are taking action to hold these countries accountable, I am concerned that this case will not stop the ongoing trend of countries dumping their products into U.S. markets. I have frequently testified in front of the International Trade Commission (ITC), and was pleased that in 2009 the ITC ruled against China in an Oil Country Tubular Goods case. However, last year I testified again in a similar case involving these same products. After duties were imposed on China in 2009, other countries, such as Vietnam, Thailand, Turkey, and South Korea, started dumping the same products on our shores. This is a dangerous trend and Congress and the Administration must stop such practices from continuing. I am encouraged that the House has taken some action to address unfair trade practices by including provisions in the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 that would strengthen our antidumping and countervailing duty laws. But while these provisions are a step in the right direction, they are not enough. TPA does not include strong, enforceable currency reforms, and instead allows the Administration, without any clear guidelines, to determine how best to address currency manipulators. TPA does nothing to ensure that strong environmental protections will be included in future trade agreements. TPA does not crack down on worker exploitation or lay out a roadmap to ensure countries included in future trade agreements are in compliance with international labor and human rights standards. Such economic inhibitors should be rejected. Instead, we should focus on investing in and encouraging vigorous domestic manufacturing. Mr. Speaker, steel is the economic backbone of the First Congressional District of Indiana, the foundation of our manufacturing base, and an essential element of our national defense. I am proud to represent the workers who make this steel every single day. Today, I ask that my colleagues stand up for American workers and oppose H.R. 1314. ###
06.11.2015	Merrillville, IN-Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Portage-based NorthShore Health Centers will receive $1,498,801.00 in continuation funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This federal funding will allow NorthShore to continue providing affordable primary care to their patients, including medical, dental, behavioral health, and pharmacy services, regardless of patients’ level of health insurance coverage. “NorthShore Health Centers has dramatically improved the quality of life for families throughout Northwest Indiana. I offer my congratulations to Jan Wilson and the NorthShore staff for their due diligence in securing this funding so that those in our communities can continue to be served,” said Congressman Visclosky. “NorthShore is pleased to be receiving this $1.5 million grant to further assist in the health care needs of the patients it serves in both Lake and Porter counties. NorthShore would like to thank Congressman Peter Visclosky who continues to support federal funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers and the health care they provide to the under and uninsured,” said Jan Wilson, CEO, NorthShore Health Centers. For a complete listing of NorthShore Health Center locations, please visit: https://www.northshorehealth.org ###
06.10.2015	OPENING STATEMENT The Honorable Peter Visclosky Ranking Member, Defense Subcommittee House Committee on Appropriations H.R. 2685, the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Act, Floor Deliberation June 10, 2015 Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may consume and ask unanimous consent that my full remarks be entered into the record. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to Chairman Frelinghuysen and congratulate him on the collegial and transparent manner in which he crafted H.R. 2685, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Defense Appropriations Act. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for the efforts of Chairman Hal Rogers, Ranking Member Nita Lowey, and all the members of the Defense Subcommittee. Also, this bill could not have been written without the dedication, long hours, discerning and thoughtful input of our committee staff and personal staffs. The Chairman has fully and fairly described the bill we are considering today. I believe he has accurately described the very dangerous and unpredictable world in which we live. As such, I will enter my detailed comments on the bill for the record. Rather, I will use my time during general debate to discuss the albatross around Congress’s neck, the Budget Control Act (BCA) of 2011. Despite near universal disdain, and plenty of buyer’s remorse from the 187 current House Members that voted in favor of the BCA in 2011, it has proven to be an extremely resilient yet utterly ineffective piece of law. We have seen short postponements of sequestration (ATRA) and two-year alleviations of the caps (BBA), yet we find ourselves, nearly five years since the BCA’s enactment, far from the consensus needed to repeal the law. Further, the continued half-hearted attempts to fix the BCA are almost as detrimental as the law itself, as they add to the nation’s uncertainty. Additionally, it is becoming increasingly difficult to point to any positive changes in our fiscal situation as a result of the BCA. While intended to reduce the budget deficit through spending limits and reductions, our nation’s debt has increased by 24.5 percent since the BCA was signed into law, mainly because Committees that are not truly constrained by discretionary spending caps continue to push politically popular legislation with little regard for its impact on the federal budget. For example, in April of this year, Congress passed legislation that permanently fixed the long-standing issues with Medicare’s payment rates for physicians’ services. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this “fix” will result in a $141 billion increase in federal budget deficits over the next ten years and yet the measure sailed through both Houses with very little opposition and was greeted by a cheerful signing statement at the White House. After 17 temporary measures since 2003, it is clear that the permanent “Doc fix” was long overdue. However, I believe it illustrates my larger point that we are nowhere close to having a sincere conversation about our deficits while non-discretionary spending and the lack of revenue continue to largely get a free pass. Until the President and Congress stop whistling past the graveyard and confront the continued growth in mandatory spending while simultaneously increasing revenues, this Committee has no choice but to carry out the implausible mandate contained in the BCA and try to control deficits with jurisdiction over only 34 percent of one-half of the federal ledger. It does not help that I fear a majority of our colleagues have no idea when the fiscal year starts, except that is when it is time to shut down the government. I despair that most think Continuing Resolutions (CR) are the norm, and sequestration is not that bad; that some delight every time a civilian federal employee is furloughed. All are symptoms of failure to me. The time we have caused people to waste by not finishing Congress’s work on time, enacting innumerable CRs, and vacillating from one topline to another is deplorable. Whether it is a federal agency, a state, other political subdivisions, a non-profit organization, contractors, or an allied nation all have been less efficient in recent years because of the constant uncertainty surrounding the federal government’s finances. To illustrate, in nearly every fiscal year since the BCA’s enactment there have been attempts to alter the caps on defense and non-defense spending. For example, just two years ago, the House and Senate had top-line allocations that were $91 billion apart, yet the sub-allocations for Defense were less than $4 billion apart and both in excess of the BCA caps. Needless to say, we ended up at a point somewhere between the two, but only after a lot of wasted time and a federal government shutdown. While not a mirror image of two years ago, the FY 2016 process is careening towards a similar fate. This fiscal year, the President got the process started by submitting a budget request that did not comply with the limitations mandated by the BCA across all budgeted fiscal years. The Majority party’s response to the President was to pass a Budget Resolution that purports to abide by the BCA caps in FY 2016 for defense and non-defense discretionary spending, yet evades the defense cap by proposing $38 billion above the President’s budget request for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) or for the purposes of H.R. 2685, the Global War on Terror (GWOT). Despite objections from the Secretary of Defense, this additional funding was further entrenched by the recently passed FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. There is no question that the Bush and Obama Administrations, DoD, and Congress have been complicit since 2001 in using emergency war funding to resource enduring requirements for the military. Over the past few years, despite the constraints of the BCA, the Defense Subcommittee, led by Chairman Frelinghuysen, has begun to make strides in limiting what is an eligible expense in OCO and shift activities to the base budget. This was done because it is increasingly difficult after fourteen years into the fight to argue that this operational tempo for our military is a contingency and not the new normal in defending our nation and our interests. Needless to say, I find the increased reliance on contingency funding very troubling and not because I object to providing additional funding for the Department of Defense. I agree with the Department and the Chairman that sticking to the BCA caps on defense spending would necessitate our forces assume unacceptable risk in carrying out our National Defense Strategy. But at the same time, we need a strong nation as well as a strong defense. We cannot continue to let our country deteriorate with interstate bridges that collapse and kill our citizens, meaningful scientific research that atrophies, and a population whose educational attainment falls further and further behind. Increasing OCO funding is merely a fleeting salve to the sequester caps for one agency that does not even allow the Department of Defense to properly plan and budget for the long-term. Only the most Pollyannaish among us fail to see that we will be in the throes of another crisis in December. Our time, our staff’s time, Congress’s time, the country’s time should not be wasted any longer. The President and the leaders of both Houses and both parties ought to start meaningful negotiations now, so that they can be concluded before October 1st, to allow the Appropriations committee to again do the business of the country in an orderly, thoughtful, and timely fashion. Moreover this is not an issue of process. Congress should not be searching for ways to alter the process in order to avoid making hard decisions on an annual basis. This is a matter of will and we need to use the “power of the purse” to its fullest. And I tell people often, the greatest gift each of us had been given is our time. We can give someone an hour of our time to help them, and we can never get that time back. That is the greatest gift you can give someone. Congress has spent too much time, year after year, stealing time from people. It is time to stop. Highlights of the Bill The Subcommittee has again included further resources for sexual assault prevention and response. This year, there is a new and welcome focus on retaliation. Specifically, the bill fully funds the budget request for the activities and offices tackling this act of mistrust with an additional $20 million to be divided among all services and components. The bill continues to robustly fund research for traumatic brain injury and psychological health, suicide prevention outreach programs, and medical research. The report, again this year, carries language to ensure our concerns about interoperable electronic health records becoming a reality for our veterans and service members. I would again like to point out the funding increase for the Humanitarian Mine Action program. While it may be a small program, I still believe its mission is of immense value. It may take years to reclaim lands around the world from the explosive remnants of war, but we can share our military’s expertise with host nations on detection, clearance, disposal, and demilitarization of explosive ordnance to protect innocent civilians. I appreciate the Chairman’s focus on resourcing the Combatant Commands beyond Central Command. Let me be clear – while the support for our almost ten thousand U.S. service members still serving in Afghanistan and threat of ISIL is paramount, there are other Areas of Responsibility that need attention. The $200 million in the bill to provide assistance to the Ukrainian national security forces to help Ukraine secure its sovereign territory and protect its citizens against foreign aggressors is an example of how the committee can, and will, help those who ask for help. The additional money added to support Drug Interdiction and Counterdrug-Activities, especially the additional $15 million for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance activities in Southern Command is another example of support included in this bill. The bill provides funding to continue Operation Observant Compass, which has successfully degraded the capability of the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), a military organization in central Africa that preyed on civilians, especially children, for conscription and concubines. The mission has accomplished many of its strategic objectives; however the commander of the LRA, Joseph Kony remains at-large. It is important that we keep working with our partners in this region towards Kony’s apprehension. Also, this bill addresses the Service Chiefs’ concerns about readiness. The billions allocated to readiness activities with reporting requirements should allow the services to mitigate the effects of constant deployments and financial unpredictability. The concern for readiness is also addressed in the $1.4 billion added across the services for Facility Sustainment, Restoration and Modernization although this figure could be much lower if Congress allowed the Department of Defense to divest itself of unusable infrastructure through a Base Realignment and Closure round. Traditionally, the Subcommittee emphasizes the positive side of the ledger; however, I believe the Subcommittee should highlight the other side of the ledger, as reductions in funding are also a result of good oversight. In this bill, there is a reduction of $100 million to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s total request. This bill also made a reduction of $82 million, denying the purchase of radars because the programs were delayed. The elimination of funding for the Joint Urgent Operational Needs Fund drives requests from the Combatant Commanders back into the normal acquisitions process for more oversight and scrutiny. The restriction on funding 8 Joint Strike Fighters until the Autonomic Logistics Information System is delivered is another example of oversight. Despite the concerns I have just expressed, I close by observing that Chairman Frelinghuysen and the Subcommittee did an exceptional job in putting together this bill. In particular, the Chairman has been very meticulous with the $37.5 billion added to Title IX of the bill by the FY 2016 Budget Resolution. He has avoided the easy path and did not dump large portions of the Operations and Maintenance accounts into Global War on Terror. Rather, he has painstakingly worked to provide the needed resources for the preparation of our forces in the field. Further, the Chairman was very thoughtful in his construction of the base portion of the bill and I believe it and the report provides the stability needed for our military personnel, emphasizes readiness, and preserves the industrial base. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.02.2015	Merrillville, IN- U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Crown Point resident YiQi “Angela” Duan has successfully completed an internship at his Merrillville district office. YiQi will complete her senior year at Merrillville High School on Wednesday, June 3, 2015. Angela is the president of the National Honor Society, council member for the Freshman Mentor Program, member of Youth Enrichment by Service Club, and a varsity player for the Academic Quiz Bowl. In previous years at Merrillville High School, Duan was the captain for the Science Olympiad, co-captain for the Mock Trial Academic Team, a member of S.T.A.N.D (Socially Together and Naturally Diverse) and other academic/community driven organizations. Upon high school graduation, Angela plans on attending the Indiana University Bloomington, Kelley School of Business as a direct admit, Hutton Honors student, and Indiana University Cox Engagement Scholar. “This invaluable opportunity has truly been a wonderful learning experience. It has reiterated the importance of always helping others and the necessity of a strong network to complete various projects. This experience has reinforced my perspective of, Congressman Visclosky as a role model for my future endeavors,” said Duan. “During Ms. Duan’s internship, she worked to address constituents needs with professionalism, respect, and promptness. Her eagerness and dedication to learning will serve her well in achieving her goals. I wish her continued success throughout her academic and professional career,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships. ###
06.02.2015	OPENING STATEMENT The Honorable Peter Visclosky Ranking Member, Defense Subcommittee House Committee on Appropriations Fiscal Year 2016, Full Committee Markup June 2, 2015 Chairman Frelinghuysen, I want to thank you on the collegial and transparent manner in which you crafted the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Defense bill. You have been placed in a very untenable position and have produced a sterling work product. I also would like to express my appreciation to Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, and the other Members of the Subcommittee for their efforts. I would particularly like to express my gratitude to the four new Members of the Subcommittee – Representatives Israel, Ruppersberger, Diaz-Balart, and Graves – for the contributions they have made in their inaugural year. Finally, I would like to thank the Subcommittee staff and the associate staff for their hard work. The Chairman has fully and fairly described our bill and my full remarks have been printed and are before you. I wish to use my time this morning to discuss the albatross around the Committee’s neck, the Budget Control Act (BCA) of 2011. Despite near universal disdain, and plenty of buyer’s remorse, the BCA has proven to be an extremely resilient yet utterly ineffective piece of law. We have seen short postponements of sequestration (ATRA) and two-year alleviations of the caps (BBA), yet we find ourselves, nearly five years since the BCA’s enactment, far away from the consensus needed to repeal the law. Further, the continued half-hearted attempts to fix the BCA are almost as detrimental as the law itself, as they add to the uncertainty and waste everyone’s time. Additionally, it is becoming increasingly difficult to point to any positive changes in our fiscal situation as a result of the BCA. While intended to reduce the budget deficit through spending limits and reductions, our nation’s debt has increased by 24.5 percent since the BCA was signed into law, mainly because Committees that are not truly constrained by the BCA’s discretionary spending caps continue to push politically popular legislation with little regard for its impact on the federal budget. For example, in April of this year, Congress passed legislation that permanently fixed the long-standing issues with Medicare’s payment rates for physicians’ services. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) this “fix” will result in a $141 billion increase in federal budget deficits over the next ten years and yet the measure sailed through both Houses with very little opposition and was greeted by a cheerful signing statement at the White House. After 17 temporary overrides since 2003, I cannot argue that the permanent “Doc fix” was not long overdue. However, I believe it illustrates my larger point that we are nowhere close to having a sincere conversation about our deficits while non-discretionary spending and lack of revenue continue to largely get a free pass. Until the President and Congress stop whistling past the graveyard and confront the continued growth in mandatory spending while simultaneously increasing revenues, this Committee has no choice but to carry out the implausible mandate contained in the BCA and try to control deficits with jurisdiction over only 34 percent of one-half of the federal ledger. It does not help that I fear a majority of our colleagues have no idea when the fiscal year starts, except that is when it is time to shut down the government. I despair that most think Continuing Resolutions are the norm, and sequestration is not that bad; that some delight every time a civilian federal employee is furloughed. All are symptoms of failure to me. The time we have caused people to waste by not finishing our work on time, enacting innumerable CRs, and vacillating from one topline to another is deplorable. Whether it is a federal agency, a state, other political subdivisions, non-profit organization, contractors, or an allied nation, all have been less efficient in recent years because of the constant uncertainty surrounding the federal government’s finances. To illustrate, in nearly every fiscal year since the BCA’s enactment there have been attempts to alter the caps on defense and non-defense spending. For example, just two years ago, the House and Senate had top-line allocations that were $91 billion apart, yet the sub-allocations for Defense were less than $4 billion apart. Needless to say, we ended up at a point somewhere between the two, but only after a lot of wasted time and a federal government shutdown. While not a mirror image of two years ago, the FY 2016 process is careening towards a similar fate. This fiscal year, the President got the process started by submitting a budget request that did not comply with the limitations mandated by the BCA across all budgeted fiscal years. Paired with the President’s budget request was a threat to veto any appropriations bills that adhered to the BCA caps. The Majority party’s response to the President was to pass a Budget Resolution that purports to abide by the BCA caps in FY 2016 for defense and non-defense discretionary spending, yet evades the defense cap by proposing $38 billion above the President’s budget request for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) or for the purposes of today’s markup, the Global War on Terror (GWOT). Despite objections from the Secretary of Defense, this additional GWOT funding was further entrenched by the recently passed FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. Needless to say, I find this solution very troubling and not because I object to providing additional funding for the Department of Defense. I agree with the Commander in Chief that sticking to the BCA caps on defense spending would necessitate our forces assume unacceptable risk in carrying out our National Defense Strategy. At this moment, the United States military and Intelligence Community are actively engaged in responding to current and emerging crises and conflicts around the globe. And we need to have them ready to respond at a moment’s notice to future challenges, both foreseen and unforeseen. But at the same time, we need a strong nation as well as a strong defense. We cannot continue to let our country deteriorate with interstate bridges that collapse and kill our citizens, meaningful scientific research that atrophies, and a population whose educational attainment falls further and further behind. Increasing OCO funding is merely a fleeting salve to the sequester caps for one agency and does not allow the Department of Defense to properly plan and budget for the future. Further, if the President is true to his veto threat, then we are playing a serious game of brinksmanship with DoD and the rest of the federal government. Each member of the committee knows we will be in the throes of another crisis in December – our time should no longer be wasted and the President and the leaders of both Houses and both parties ought to start meaningful negotiations now, so that they can be concluded before October 1st, to allow this preeminent committee to again do the business of the country in an orderly, thoughtful, and timely fashion. Additionally, the Administration, DoD, and Congress have been complicit since 2001 in using emergency war funding to fund enduring requirements for the military. Over the past few years, despite the constraints of the BCA, the Subcommittee, led by Chairman Frelinghuysen, had begun to make strides in limiting what is an eligible expense in OCO and shift activities to the base budget. This was done because it is increasingly difficult after fourteen years into the fight to argue that this operational tempo for our military is a contingency and not the new normal in defending our nation and our interests. If the higher GWOT funding were to be enacted, much of the progress we made in reining in Title IX will be undone. Despite the concerns I have just expressed, I close by observing that Chairman Frelinghuysen and the Subcommittee did an exceptional job in putting together this bill. In particular, the Chairman has been very meticulous with the $37.5 billion added to Title IX of the bill by the FY 2016 Budget Resolution. He has avoided the easy path and did not dump large portions of the Operations and Maintenance accounts into GWOT. Rather, he has painstakingly worked to provide the needed resources for the preparation of our forces in the field. Further, the Chairman was very thoughtful in his construction of the base portion of the bill and I believe it and the report provide the stability needed for our military personnel, emphasizes readiness, and preserves the industrial base. Highlights of the Bill The Subcommittee has again included further resources for sexual assault prevention and response. This year, there is a new and welcome focus on retaliation. Specifically, the bill fully funds the budget request for the activities and offices tackling this act of mistrust with an additional $20 million to be divided among all services and components. The bill continues to robustly fund research for traumatic brain injury and psychological health, suicide prevention outreach programs, and medical research. The report, again this year, carries language to ensure our concerns about interoperable electronic health records becoming a reality for our veterans and service members. I would again like to point out the funding increase for the Humanitarian Mine Action program. While it may be a small program, I still believe its mission is of immense value. It may take years to reclaim lands around the world from the explosive remnants of war, but we can share our military’s expertise with host nations on detection, clearance, disposal, and demilitarization of explosive ordnance to protect innocent civilians. I appreciate the Chairman’s focus on resourcing the Combatant Commands beyond Central Command. Let me be clear – while the support for our almost ten thousand U.S. service members still serving in Afghanistan and threat of ISIL is paramount, there are other Areas of Responsibility that need attention. The $200 million in the bill to provide assistance to the Ukrainian national security forces to help Ukraine secure its sovereign territory and protect its citizens against foreign aggressors is an example of how the committee can, and will, help those who ask for help. The additional money added to support Drug Interdiction and Counterdrug-Activities, especially the additional $15 million for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance activities in Southern Command is another example of support included in this bill. The additional funding to allow Africa Command to maintain a persistent presence on a continent that rules with “the tyranny of distance” is ensuring US efforts in that part of the world are successful. Also, this bill addresses the Service Chiefs’ concerns about readiness. The billions allocated to readiness activities with reporting requirements should allow the services to mitigate the effects of constant deployments and financial unpredictability. The concern for readiness is also addressed in the $1.4 billion added across the services for Facility Sustainment, Restoration and Modernization although this figure could be much lower if Congress allowed the Department of Defense to divest itself of unusable infrastructure through a Base Realignment and Closure round. Traditionally, the Subcommittee emphasizes the positive side of the ledger; however, I believe the Subcommittee should highlight the other side of the ledger, as reductions in funding are also a result of good oversight. In this bill, there is a reduction of $100 million to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s total request. This bill also made a reduction of $82 million, denying the purchase of radars because the programs were delayed. The elimination of funding for the Joint Urgent Operational Needs Fund drives requests from the Combatant Commanders back into the normal acquisitions process for more oversight and scrutiny. In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to reiterate my appreciation for your work with us on many issues. You have ensured the Defense Subcommittee continues its tradition of bipartisanship—the Subcommittee has operated collaboratively and effectively for many years and, within the constraints you were faced with, you have largely addressed the interests we have expressed. Despite my concerns with this bill’s reliance on the additional OCO funding, I look forward to working with you and the members of the Committee to advance the process and complete the task before us. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman for the time. ###
05.22.2015	Washington D.C.– As a result of efforts by the House Congressional Steel Caucus, led by Chairman Tim Murphy and Vice Chairman Peter J. Visclosky, House Ways & Means Chairman Paul Ryan committed to include legislation sought by the Steel Caucus in the customs and trade enforcement bill scheduled for debate in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bi-partisan House Steel Caucus, which is comprised of more than 100 members of Congress, sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi seeking trade remedies advanced in the Senate by Sen. Robert Portman (R-OH). The secured trade remedies, reflected in the letter below, would ensure the steel industry’s survival in the global economy. By weeks end, House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, through his spokesman, stated: “This provision is a top priority of the House Steel Caucus and Sen. Portman, and Chairman Ryan has made a commitment to them to include it in the House customs and trade enforcement bill.” “The Congressional Steel Caucus applauds Chairman Ryan’s leadership and is grateful for his commitment to allow consideration of these critical provisions that will strengthen our trade laws," said Congressman Tim Murphy. “Strong and effective trade enforcement provisions will play a critical role in growing domestic steel’s impact in our national and international economy.” “I appreciate Chairman Ryan’s commitment to consider these essential provisions as highlighted by members of the Congressional Steel Caucus. I believe this is a step in the right direction towards protecting hardworking Americans and our manufacturing base from unfair trade practices.” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. Click here to visit a PDF of the letter. Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: We write today as the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus to express our support for trade legislation that will strengthen the American steel industry and allow American steel workers to compete on a level playing field in our global economy. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bi-partisan group of over 100 Members of Congress that represent companies and employees involved in the steel industry. On March 26, 2015, the Steel Caucus convened a hearing on the State of the Steel. During this hearing, chief executive officers from leading steel companies, including U.S. Steel, ArcelorMittal, and Nucor, as well as a representative from the United Steelworkers, expressed concern about the shortcomings of U.S. trade remedy laws, which are the means by which the American steel industry can mitigate the harm from unfairly traded foreign imports. However, by the time this mitigation process is complete, the American jobs are already lost and the American companies have already lost their market share. We ask that the House consider trade remedies reflecting the provisions advanced by the Senate Committee on Finance as well as those adopted on the Senate floor, which will allow the American steel industry to accomplish the following: Strengthen and improve our anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws; Establish a means to petition Customs and Border Protection to take action in a timely manner to combat the evasion of anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders; Enhance the ability of the Department of Commerce to select appropriate facts when a foreign party fails to cooperate with an unfair trade investigation; Clarifies that the International Trade Commission (ITC) should not deny relief merely because the domestic industry is profitable or because its performance has recently improved, and clarify the factors the ITC should consider in making its material injury determination; Provide the Department of Commerce with the flexibility to use prices or costs that are not distorted when calculating dumping and clarifies its authority regarding the selection of voluntary respondents. We thank you for your consideration. Steel is an essential component of our national security and domestic manufacturing base, and we must do all that we can to ensure its survival in our global economy. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Murphy, Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Congressman Peter J. Visclosky, Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus ### The Congressional Steel Caucus consists of 134 bipartisan Members of Congress who represent various steel-producing districts. The Caucus works to ensure that the domestic steel industry remains strong by advancing legislative initiatives and convening the annual State of Steel hearing. The caucus also petitions the Department of Commerce regarding illegal dumping by foreign competitors and members often provide testimony before the United States International Trade Commission.
05.22.2015	MERRILLVILLE – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded $4,370,075 to Porter County Regional Airport. This grant will support a multistep process to enhance the runway at the airport, including the reconstruction of the existing runway. Specifically, the funding will support the second phase of an effort to rehabilitate 3,200 feet of the eastern portion of the runway. “Projects that strengthen our transportation network generate economic activity and put people to work,” said Visclosky. “I congratulate Kyle Kuebler and the Porter County Regional Authority for their continued commitment to this important infrastructure project.” “This funding represents the second round of programming, which enables the Porter County Regional Airport to continue the reconstruction of its most critical infrastructure asset, its primary east-west runway, allowing the Airport to safely and effectively continue to provide its air transportation accessibility and convenience to our community and region,” Kyle J. Kuebler, Airport Director Porter County Regional Airport said. The 2012 Indiana Airports’ Economic Impact Study indicates that the Porter County Regional Airport has an estimated economic impact of over $17.2 million annually. ###
05.19.2015	Merrillville, IN-Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Gary/Chicago International Airport (GCA) will receive two grants totaling $5,744,597 from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA funding will support the completion of the runway extension project and for other structural upgrades at the airport. “Economic infrastructure investments create jobs and, as a result, will strengthen our local economy,” said Visclosky. “The Gary/Chicago International Airport is an integral part of Northwest Indiana’s transportation network. I share in Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson’s commitment to ensuring that this valuable economic asset truly benefits all of Northwest Indiana now and in the future.” "The city and citizens of Gary are grateful for the vote of confidence exemplified by this grant. The support comes at a critical time as we complete our rail relocation and runway expansion which will allow us to capture the full promise of development at the Gary/Chicago International Airport. The potential for the airport to serve as an economic driver in our city and region has never been greater," Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson said. ###
05.18.2015	Merrillville, IN- U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Crown Point resident Jacqueline Van Der Wey has completed an internship at his Merrillville district office. Jacqueline is in her senior year at Crown Point High School. Van Der Wey is the founder and president of the Political Action Committee at Crown Point High School, as well as the sports editor of the Inklings School Newspaper. She plans on earning a degree in economics and public policy at Indiana University. Upon completing her undergraduate degree, Jacqueline intends on pursing a law degree. “Throughout my time at Congressman Visclosky's office I have learned more than just the normal proceedings of a Congressional District Office, I have learned that Pete goes above and beyond in order to serve and represent the people of Northwest Indiana,” said Van Der Wey. “I am proud to be a temporary part of the staff, and serve the constituency with the guidance of Congressman Visclosky. This experience has provided me with more than knowledge of a government office; it has inspired me to enter into public service.” “Jacqueline has proved to be a great asset to the daily operations of my district office,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Her commitment to serving others above self at such a young age is commendable. I am confident that she will continue to do well in her academic pursuits and I wish her continued success.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships. ###
05.13.2015	Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky’s office will host prospective applicants for the five U.S. military academies from 6:00-7:30 p.m., Thursday, May 28, 2015. The academy night will be held at: Lake County Public Library Meeting Room A (Downstairs) 1919 West 81st Avenue Merrillville, Indiana 46410 Applicants who are from the First Congressional District and interested in attending a military academy are encouraged to attend this event. Students will learn about the educational opportunities and the application process of the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Members of the Congressman’s Military Academy Nomination Board will also be on hand to meet prospective applicants. “Our nation’s military academies provide opportunities for young people to gain a valuable education at a prestigious service academy, all while building on the great traditions of our country,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. “It is an honor to facilitate this event and bring together Academy representatives as well as members of my military academy board. Anyone considering applying and who would like to learn more about the process should consider attending.” For further information, please contact Congressman Pete Visclosky’s district office at 219-795-1844. To access the application, please visit: https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations ###
05.05.2015	Merrillville, IN- U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky will host an open house showcasing the artwork submitted for consideration to be displayed in the United States Capitol. During the event, constituent services staff will also be on hand to provide assistance in matters pertaining to the federal government. The open house will be held on: Monday, May 11, 2015, from 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the Portage Lakefront and Riverwalk, 1000 Riverwalk Drive, Portage, Indiana 46368. During the open house, Mr. John Cain, Executive Director, South Shore Arts, will announce the winner whose artwork will represent the First Congressional District. “The success of the Congressional Art Competition is due largely in part to the dedication our region’s art teachers. I am inspired by the entries representing various high schools throughout the First Congressional District and am looking forward to sharing these pieces with the community,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. For more information about the 2015 Congressional Art Competition and Pete’s constituent services, please visit: www.visclosky.house.gov ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House Appropriations Committee passed a bill that includes a provision authored by Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Pete Visclosky (D-IN) to increase flexibility for veterans seeking healthcare. The initiative was contained in the Fiscal year (FY) 2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill that cleared the committee yesterday. The report language would make it easier for veterans with long travel times to VA clinics to get care at medical facilities closer to home. In response to news reports last year about patient delays at the Phoenix VA hospital and other clinics Congress passed legislation to address the problem. One area the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 sought to fix was helping rural veterans’ better access needed care. The law created the Veterans Choice Program at the VA to allow veterans to visit non-VA facilities if they live more than 40 miles from a VA facility or face scheduling delays. Under the current system, the VA will pay for veterans who live at least 40 miles from the nearest VA clinic to go to a closer private facility. But the rule does not take into account the actual time veterans spend traveling to appointments, it only uses the 40 mile measurement for eligibility. Kilmer and Visclosky obtained a provision to expand it by asking the VA to consider the time it takes to actually drive to the nearest VA clinic. “Veterans on the Peninsula and in rural areas across the country are still struggling to access quality care,” said Kilmer. “It’s hard to take time out of your day when you live in a place like Sequim and drive to Seattle or Tacoma to see a doctor. We are directing the VA to not just count miles but also factor in the time it takes. Instead of sitting in traffic jams or waiting to cross a backed up bridge our veterans should be able to go to an appointment where they actually live.” “I am pleased with the language in the Military and Veterans Appropriations bill that re-emphasizes the need for our veterans to have access to additional healthcare options. As a nation, we are indebted to these brave men and women and serving them is not only our patriotic duty but it is also our moral obligation,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. In March, Visclosky led a letter signed by Kilmer asking the VA to improve the program by factoring in travel times, not just measuring the 40 mile distance. ###
04.23.2015	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a $35,461 grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to the Gary Housing Authority under the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) Program. “I commend the efforts initiated by Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson and the Gary Housing Authority for their leadership in addressing the important issue of veterans’ homelessness in Northwest Indiana by securing this funding. Our veterans volunteered to defend our country, and we as a nation must ensure they and their families receive the appropriate housing and supportive services they need,” said Congressman Visclosky. “I thank the Department of Housing and Urban Development for their continue commitment and partnership with the City of Gary. This grant funding will have a direct and positive impact on our area’s veterans. I remain committed, on behalf of the citizens of Gary, to aggressively secure federal, state, nonprofit, and private grants to help improve our community,” said Mayor Karen Freeman Wilson. According to HUD, the VASH tenant-based vouchers will enable homeless veterans and their families to access affordable existing housing of their choice. Each veteran that receives a voucher also will receive an array of supportive services provided by the Veterans Administration. For more information visit: HUD-VASH ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Pete Visclosky (IN-01) and U.S. Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN) welcomed the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) announcement today that will ease veterans’ access to non-VA care under the Veterans Choice Program, but at the same time called on the VA to take additional steps to relieve the travel burden on northwest Indiana veterans. The VA said on Tuesday it would expand access to non-VA care for veterans by changing the calculation used to determine the required 40-mile distance between where a veteran lives and the nearest VA medical facility from the straight-line distance to the driving distance. Visclosky and Donnelly are again calling on the VA to consider factors like traffic congestion and transportation to and from shuttle stops in determining a veteran’s total travel burden. Visclosky said, “The announced change to the Veterans Choice Program will help ensure that our nation’s veterans have convenient access to the health care they earned and deserve. I urge the VA to take a more comprehensive approach to expand the Veterans Choice Program and, moreover, continue to look for ways to increase efficiencies that will better serve our country’s bravest.” Donnelly said, “This announcement from the VA is welcome news and a good first step; however, the VA needs to do more to expand access to non-VA care for our veterans. The travel burden can be excessive for some of our northwest Indiana veterans who may face a lengthy journey, being forced to sit in heavy traffic to Chicago or travel to Crown Point for the shuttle to Chicago in order to receive care. That is why we believe the VA should consider factors including drive time and distance to a health care clinic that provides needed treatment. Our veterans should not endure excessive travel burdens simply to access the benefits they have earned. I will continue to work with my friend, Congressman Visclosky, on this issue and am hopeful that the VA will do the right thing and ease the travel burden on northwest Indiana veterans.” Visclosky and Donnelly have sent two letters to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald, requesting that in allowing access to non-VA community health care, the VA consider travel times and the distance from appropriate care, rather than simply the straight-line distance from a veteran’s home to the nearest VA facility. Visclosky and Donnelly cited the travel burdens faced by some northwest Indiana veterans served by the Adam Benjamin, Jr. Crown Point Outpatient Clinic, but who must travel to the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center in Chicago for specialty or inpatient care. Donnelly and Visclosky have encouraged the VA to consider factors like traffic congestion and transportation to and from shuttle stops in determining a veteran’s total travel burden. On March 4, Visclosky and Donnelly wrote about their continued concern about the issue, noting the travel burdens faced by some northwest Indiana veterans. The March letter followed their initial letter to the VA Secretary on this issue that they sent October 31, 2014 with Senator Dan Coats. The bipartisan Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, which was signed into law in August, includes a provision that allows veterans to access non-VA providers if they live more than 40 miles from a VA health facility or face “an unusual or excessive burden” in accessing VA care. The Department of Veterans Affairs is in the process of translating the new law’s provisions into detailed guidance that will determine which veterans are eligible to see non-VA community providers using their VA benefits. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) and Congressman Pete Visclosky (IN-01), together with 48 members of the U.S. House of Representatives urged Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to improve veterans’ access to medical care under the Veterans Choice program. Last August, Congress passed and the President signed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-46). Among other provisions, the law established a Veterans Choice Program to expand access to non-VA healthcare for veterans residing more than 40 miles from a VA facility, for those who face long wait times for a VA medical appointment, and for those who face a significant barrier in accessing VA care. In November 2014, the VA issued an Interim Final Rule for the implementation of the Veterans Choice Program. Brownley, Visclosky, and several House and Senate members have expressed concern that the VA’s strict interpretation of the 40 mile rule is limiting eligibility for the program. Under the Interim Final Rule, the 40 mile distance is measured from a veteran’s residence to the nearest VA medical facility, even if that facility cannot provide the care that the veteran needs. Furthermore, it ignores travel times, which vary widely across the country, and it measures the distance as a direct line, rather than the actual route a veteran would travel to access the VA facility. “When Congress passed the Veterans Choice program, we intended the program to be widely available to ensure that all veterans receive timely access to medical appointments. I am hopeful that the Secretary will work with us to ensure that veterans who want to seek healthcare outside the VA through the Choice Program, or VA’s other non-VA care authorities, can do so,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “Honoring our nation's veterans by improving their access to medical care – whether it is reducing waiting times, increasing the options available, or decreasing the time and distance to medical facilities all without compromising quality – is quite simply the right thing to do,” stated Congressman Visclosky. “We strongly encourage the VA to take a more reasonable approach to geographic-based eligibility criteria for the Veterans Choice Program.” Currently, many veterans have to travel distances that significantly exceed 40 miles in order to access certain specialty care or inpatient services, because the smaller Community-Based Outpatient Clinic or VA facility near their home offers only limited medical services. The Brownley/Visclosky letter urges VA Secretary Robert McDonald to use the authority provided under the Choice Act to take into account travel time and to ensure that the VA considers whether the facility being measured actually offers the health care service that the veteran needs. To access the letter please click here. ###
02.24.2015	MERRILLVILLE, INDIANA - Congressman Pete Visclosky invites all high school students from Indiana’s First Congressional District to participate in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery”. Each year, Members of the United States House of Representatives sponsor the annual Artistic Discovery Competition to give students the opportunity for expression through artistic talents. “I encourage our local high school students to participate in the Congressional Art Competition so that we can highlight the local artistic talent of Northwest Indiana,” Congressman Visclosky said. The winning piece from each congressional district will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The winner and one guest also will receive complimentary roundtrip tickets to Washington, D.C. to attend a ceremony unveiling the artwork. Additional travel arrangements will need to be made at the expense of the winner. All interested artists must first complete the necessary release forms. All artwork submissions must be brought to Congressman Visclosky’s District Office, located at 7895 Broadway, Suite A, Merrillville, Indiana no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 17, 2015. All pieces will be accepted during the District Office’s normal hours of operation, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. To access additional information about the competition, or to access concerning guidelines and student release forms, please visit the following web address: https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/congressional-art-competition. If applicants have any additional questions regarding the Congressional Arts Competition, please do not hesitate to contact Congressman Visclosky’s District Office at (219) 795-1844. ###
02.12.2015	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Visclosky announced grant awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to the Gary, East Chicago, Hammond, and Michigan City Housing Authorities under the Capital Fund Program. “I commend the efforts made by the leadership in the Cities of East Chicago, Gary, Hammond, and Michigan City to secure these HUD grants. The ability to provide affordable housing to the residents of Northwest Indiana is essential to improving the quality of life of our residents,” Congressman Pete Visclosky said. The awards breakdown are the following: East Chicago Housing Authority $ 1,270,037.00 Gary Housing Authority $ 3,466,627.00 Hammond Housing Authority $ 704,978.00 Michigan City Housing Authority $ 200,025.00 For Fiscal Year 2015, the Department will make available $11.8 billion to approximately 3,100 grantees. The Capital Fund provides grants annually to Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) for capital and management activities, including modernization and development of public housing. For more information on Capital Funds please visit: Office of Capital Improvements - Office of Public Housing Investments. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Pete Visclosky (IN-01) have introduced a three year reauthorization of the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) program. Created in 1999 by the two lawmakers, the bipartisan BVP program provides state, local and tribal law enforcement officers with needed protection by aiding the purchase of protective equipment. The last reauthorization was in 2008. “Recent events underscore the threats our men and women in uniform face each day as they safeguard our communities and protect the freedoms all of us enjoy. Bulletproof vests and body armor have saved thousands of law enforcement officers. However, they cannot protect the lives of those who do not have access to them,” said LoBiondo. “Now more than ever it is imperative that we give law enforcement the tools they need so they may do their jobs and carry out their duties safely and effectively. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership program is one of those critical tools.” “Law enforcement professionals serve a critical role in our daily lives and throughout our society. The protection of these courageous men and women is essential to the job they perform and we must continue to ensure that they have the tools necessary to perform their duty in the safest manner possible,” U.S. Congressman Pete Visclosky said. Since 1999, over 13,000 jurisdictions across the country have participated in the BVP program with $375 million in federal funds committed to support the purchase of more than 1.1 million vests. Additional information on the BVP program can be found at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bvpbasi. The lawmakers’ bipartisan bill, “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2015” (H.R. 228), was introduced on the House floor late last week. # # #
12.29.2014	Visclosky Announces 2015 Town Forums Local students to lead the Pledge of Allegiance Merrillville, IN- Congressman Visclosky announced today that he will hold 12 Town Forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District during the month of January. Visclosky hosts the Town Forums each year as an avenue to hear directly from constituents and to provide an update on issues facing the region and the country. “I host these annual Town Forums so that I may share updates on the previous and forthcoming legislative sessions and, moreover, to hear from the public on the important issues of today,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. As in previous years, local students will lead the Pledge of Allegiance and introduce Visclosky to their communities. Each student will give a brief introduction speech that will include information on the history and economy of the First Congressional District. “Some of Northwest Indiana’s best and brightest will join us during the 2015 Town Forums. I am excited to have their participation throughout the week, and I appreciate their willingness to take an active role in our democratic process.” Congressman Visclosky’s 2015 Town Forum Schedule: Thursday January 15, 2015: 10:00 a.m. CST-Michigan City: Michigan City-City Hall, 100 East Michigan Boulevard, Michigan City, Indiana 46360 12:00 p.m. CST-Chesterton: Westchester Public Library, Library Service Center, 100 West Indiana Avenue, Chesterton, Indiana 46304 2:00 p.m. CST-Valparaiso: Porter County Government Center, County Commissioners’ Chambers, 155 Indiana Avenue, Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 4:00 p.m. CST-Portage: Portage City Hall, 6070 Central Avenue, Portage, Indiana 46368 6:00 p.m. CST-Hobart: Hobart Community Center, 111 East Old Ridge Road, Hobart, Indiana 46342 Friday January 16, 2015: 10:00 a.m. CST-Crown Point: Crown Point Library, 122 North Main Street, Crown Point, Indiana 46307 12:00 p.m. CST-Highland: Wicker Park Social Center, 2215 Ridge Road, Highland, Indiana 46322 2:00 p.m. CST-Hammond: Purdue University Calumet, Student Union Library Building, Room With a View, 2200 169th Street, Hammond, Indiana 46323 4:00 p.m. CST-East Chicago: East Chicago City Hall, Council Chambers, 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard, East Chicago, Indiana 46312 6:00 p.m. CST-Gary: Gary YWCA, 150 West 15th Avenue, Gary, Indiana 46407 Saturday January 17, 2015: 12:00 p.m. CST-St. John: St. John Town Hall, 10955 West 93rd Avenue, St. John, Indiana 46373 2:00 p.m. CST-Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway, Merrillville, Indiana 46410
11.05.2014	Crown Point, Ind.— U.S. Representative Pete Visclosky (IN-01) and U.S. Senators Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and Dan Coats (R-IN) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald urging that VA take into account more than just total travel distance in allowing veterans to access non-VA community health care, citing as an example the travel burdens faced by some northwest Indiana veterans. Visclosky, Donnelly, and Coats wrote, “We urge you to use your authority to consider travel time as well as total distance to a VA facility.” The bipartisan Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, which was signed into law in August after passing the House and Senate, includes a provision that allows veterans to access non-VA providers if they live more than 40 miles from a VA health facility or face “an unusual or excessive burden” in accessing VA care. The Department of Veterans Affairs is in the process of translating the new law’s provisions into detailed guidance that will determine which veterans are eligible to see non-VA community providers using their VA benefits. Visclosky, Donnelly, and Coats wrote to weigh in on this rulemaking process, highlighting as an example the challenges faced by northwest Indiana veterans usually served by the Adam Benjamin, Jr. Crown Point outpatient clinic, but who must travel to the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center in Chicago for specialty or inpatient care. Their letter encouraged the VA to consider factors like traffic congestion and transportation to and from shuttle stops into determining a veteran’s total travel burden. Visclosky, Donnelly, and Coats noted that “this is an incredibly frustrating experience for older infirmed veterans, as local non-VA hospital care and medical services are readily available.” “We encourage you to keep the veterans of Northwest Indiana in mind and ensure that they are afforded the opportunities established under this law,” Visclosky, Donnelly, and Coats wrote. To see a copy of the signed letter, click here. Full text of the letter is below. October 31, 2014 The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We write to express our views regarding the ongoing rulemaking for Section 101 of P.L. 113-146, the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014. As you know, Section 101 of P.L. 113-146 expands the availability of hospital care and medical services for veterans at non-Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) entities, and establishes criteria for determining a veteran’s eligibility for non-VA care. Many of the criteria described in Section 101 are dependent on geographic challenges faced by the veteran, most notably a 40 mile distance from a VA medical facility. Additionally, Section 101 grants you the flexibility to determine the eligibility of a veteran for non-VA care if the veteran “faces an unusual or excessive burden” in accessing a VA medical facility. We urge you to use your authority to consider travel time as well as total distance to a VA facility in determining an eligible veteran under Section 101. In Northwest Indiana, veterans utilize the Adam Benjamin, Jr., Outpatient Clinic in Crown Point, Indiana, for outpatient services. Should the veteran require certain specialty outpatient or inpatient services, they are required to take shuttle transportation of approximately 40 miles from the Adam Benjamin, Jr., Outpatient Clinic to the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center in Chicago. This travel poses numerous logistical and physical challenges for elderly veterans, and has been a consistent concern expressed by Northwest Indiana veterans for many years. While some of our constituents may live within 40 miles of the VA facilities in Crown Point and Chicago, if they are required to travel to Crown Point in order to take the shuttle transportation into Chicago, their total travel distance will almost certainly exceed 40 miles. This is an incredibly frustrating experience for older infirmed veterans, as local non-VA hospital care and medical services are readily available. Furthermore, the total travel time expended by these veterans to travel to Chicago can be extreme, especially if they have to first travel to Crown Point for the shuttle. According to travel planning software, the driving time from the Adam Benjamin Jr. Outpatient Clinic to the Jesse Brown Medical Center is expected to take a little over an hour. However, due to traffic congestion in Indiana and Chicago, a trip of that duration is rarely the case. Based on data from the Northwest Indiana Regional Planning Commission, 30 percent of the roads on this trip travelled in Indiana alone have a Level-of-Service rating of E or F. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, these Levels-of-Service are classified as unstable flow, operating at capacity, or forced or breakdown flow. At the F level, travel time cannot be predicted. Approaching downtown Chicago on the Illinois side of the state line is also fraught with traffic, further contributing to an already long journey for our veterans. As you establish the regulations for the implementation of P.L. 113-146, we encourage you to keep the veterans of Northwest Indiana in mind and ensure that they are afforded the opportunities established under this law. We look forward to your response and thank you in advance for your attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, U.S. Senators Dan Coats and Joe Donnelly Congressman Pete Visclosky ###
10.21.2014	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Visclosky announced a grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to the City of Michigan City under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. “The CDBG program is critical to enhancing economic opportunities and improving municipal infrastructure throughout Northwest Indiana. I commend Mayor Ron Meer for his leadership and steadfast commitment to the many residents throughout Michigan City,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. The CDBG program is a federally funded grant program that provides annual grants to develop urban communities and expand economic opportunities. “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky and his office for their assistance in helping Michigan City secure this grant funding in the amount of $616,472. This money will help the City of Michigan City in our continued commitment to assist with public social services including services for victims of domestic abuse, rental assistance, services to prevent child abuse, job training for low income residents and outreach mental health services to the severely mentally ill. This money will also allow us the ability to provide safe decent affordable housing opportunities,” Mayor Ron Meer said. ###
10.21.2014	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Portage-based NorthShore Health Centers will receive $1,498,801 in continuation funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This federal funding will allow NorthShore to continue providing affordable primary care to their patients, including medical, dental, behavioral health, and pharmacy services, regardless of patients’ level of health insurance coverage. “This funding will further advance the important work taking place at NorthShore Health Centers throughout our region. On behalf of the thousands of citizens throughout Northwest Indiana that utilize NorthShore facilities, I offer my congratulations to Jan Wilson and the NorthShore staff for their due diligence in securing this funding so that those in our communities can continue to be served,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. For a complete listing of NorthShore Health Center locations, please visit: https://www.northshorehealth.org “NorthShore is pleased to be receiving this grant to further assist in the health care needs of the patients it serves in both Lake and Porter counties. NorthShore would like to thank Congressman Peter Visclosky who continues to lobby for funds that allow entities such as NorthShore Health Centers to provide high quality health care to the non-insured and under-insured patients who would otherwise go with no health care,” said Jan Wilson, CEO, NorthShore Health Centers. ###
10.08.2014	Merrillville, IN- Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded a construction contract of $3,204,972.94 for the ecosystem restoration work of 80 acres in the City of Portage lakefront area. “This award is a significant milestone in our continued efforts to recapture our Lake Michigan shoreline for public use and to enhance economic opportunities throughout our region. Today’s announcement is possible due to the public / private partnership between the City of Portage, led by Mayor James Snyder, the Portage Park Foundation, the federal government represented by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, and U.S. Steel to expand and improve the footprint of the Portage Lakefront Park ,” Congressman Pete Visclosky said. "Working with our partner, the City of Portage, we have designed a project to help restore a significant portion of the Lake Michigan waterfront in northwest Indiana," U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Commander Col. Christopher Drew said. "With the award of this contract, we look forward to beginning construction." “The City of Portage continues to reap from Congressman Visclosky's Marquette Plan and his tenacity to see that vision come to reality. Portage and Northwest Indiana residents are going to have more access and be able to enjoy the beautiful lakefront and landscape The Lord has blessed us with,” said Mayor James Snyder, City of Portage. “Reclaiming the Lakeshore is a long-term commitment. But this is another example of how we are doing it, inch by inch, acre by acre. This will be a great enhancement for the City of Portage,” said State Senator Karen Tallian. ABOUT THE PROJECT: Ecosystem Restoration of 80 acres in Portage, IN. Habitats include Wet Mesic Oak Woodland, Mesic Oak Woodland, Oak Savanna, Wet Mesic Prairie, Mesic Prairie, High Dune, Dune and Wet Woodland. Techniques utilized will be girdling in place, under-story clearing, planting, controlled burns and invasive plant eradication. Dune rebuilding will occur for 9.5 acres through on-site cut and fill with the excess material being placed for a separate dune restoration. Additional wet woodland acreage in the southern area will be terraced upland from the river. ###
09.22.2014	MERRILLVILLE – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded $541,250 to Michigan City Municipal Airport and $2,152,842 to Porter County Regional Airport. These grants are part of a multistep process to maintain and enhance both the Michigan City Municipal Airport and Porter County Regional Airport. “I would like to thank the FAA and INDOT Office of Aviation for this grant award which will allow the airport to take another step forward in keeping our airfield safe for general aviation traffic,” said Jessica Ward, Manager, Michigan City Municipal Airport. Porter County Regional Airport Director Kyle Kuebler said of the project, “This funding enables the Porter County Regional Airport to begin to reconstruct its most important infrastructure asset, its primary east-west runway, which allows the Airport to safely and effectively continue to provide its air transportation accessibility to our community and region.” “Investing in Northwest Indiana’s airport infrastructure is essential to the vitality of our regional economy,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Projects that grow our transportation network attract new economic activity and generate good paying jobs.” The 2012 Indiana Airports’ Economic Impact Study indicates that Michigan City Municipal Airport has an estimated economic impact of over $52.1 million annually and Porter County Regional Airport has an estimated economic impact of over $17.2 million annually. ###
09.19.2014	MERRILLVILLE- The Porter County Substance Abuse Council has secured a $125,000 continuation grant through the Drug-Free Communities Support Program, as administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. “I congratulate the Porter County Substance Abuse Council for securing this grant and for their steadfast commitment to reducing youth drug use in our communities,” said Visclosky. “This renewed endorsement confirms our mission and our work addressing the will of the community in the fight against substance abuse. Our coalition members work tirelessly helping our youth. Only working together, in a collaborative fashion, are we able to fully realize positive change in our community,” said Beatrice Owen, Director, Porter County Substance Abuse Council. About DFC: The Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. Directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), the DFC Program provides grants to community coalitions to strengthen. ###
09.18.2014	MERRILLVILLE- The U.S. Department Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced awards to community health centers across the First Congressional District. “I congratulate our local community health centers for receiving this important funding. It will be used to expand high-quality health care services throughout our communities,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. The breakdown for these awards is outlined below: Awardee Name City Award Amount Community HealthNet Gary $219,020 HealthLinc, Inc. Valparaiso $260,822 NorthShore Health Centers, Inc. Portage $319,348 Regional Community Mental Health Center Merrillville $187,000 According to HHS, this funding will allow health centers to increase access to comprehensive primary health care services by hiring new staff, including new health care providers, increasing operating hours, and expanding the care they provide to include new services, such as oral health, behavioral health, pharmacy, and vision services. “With funding from the Health Resources Services Administration for Expanded Services, Community HealthNet will hire doctors and additional medical staff. This funding will enable Community HealthNet to provide much needed primary care services to more people in Northwest Indiana,” said Dr. Janet Seabrook, Executive Director, of Community HealthNet. “We are pleased to be a recipient of this HRSA grant. HealthLinc will use the grant to increase the capacity of our OB program in East Chicago and start a program in Valparaiso. Indiana’s infant mortality rates, specifically among low-income women in Lake and Porter counties, are some of the worse in the nation. This funding will be used to help improve those statistics, resulting in healthy babies,” said Beth Wrobel, CEO, HealthLinc. “We are very pleased with this award announcement. This funding will allow us to some provide transportation services to our patients and allow us to increase our physician and dental services. We appreciate Congressman Pete Visclosky and HRSA’s support in securing this funding,” said Bob Krumwied, CEO, Regional Mental Health Center. “We are thankful for the recent grant funding received. NorthShore will use the grant funds to expand our comprehensive primary care and vision services to our patients. We are grateful for Congressman Visclosky’s continued support,” said Jan Wilson, CEO, NorthShore Health Centers. ###
09.12.2014	MERRILLVILLE- The U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) announced awards through the Susan Harwood Training Grant Program to 78 nonprofit organizations, such as community- and faith-based groups, employer associations, labor unions, joint labor-management associations, and colleges and universities. The Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana headquartered in Portage was a recipient of one of these awards and has received $154,124. “Northwest Indiana’s talented workforce is one of our strongest assets. I am pleased that the Construction Advancement Foundation has been selected as a recipient of this OSHA training grant program. Worksite safety is a top priority for construction and manufacturing workers, and this award will further enhance the safety training programs already being offered at the Construction Advancement Foundation,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. “We have been fortunate to receive approval of this grant for the past four consecutive years. During that time we provided over 31,498 man hours of safety training for over 4,127 contractors and skilled craft workers across Northwest Indiana. The Construction Advancement Foundation has been the leading provider of safety training under the Susan Harwood Grant Program and our success is a reflection of the commitment contractors, unions and users have towards the safety of workers. We very much appreciate the support of Congressman Visclosky in helping keep our workers safe in the workplace,” said Dewey Pearman, Executive Director, Construction Advancement Foundation. ###
08.22.2014	Merrillville, IN- Today, the International Trade Commission (ITC) made affirmative final injury determinations in the antidumping duty investigations of Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) against India, South Korea, Turkey, Ukraine, Vietnam, and Taiwan. The ITC also made affirmative final injury determinations in the countervailing duty investigations against India and Turkey. Additionally, the ITC made negative determinations in the antidumping duty investigations against the Philippines and Thailand. “I am pleased that the International Trade Commission sent the message to these six countries that we will not tolerate their illegal imports. American jobs are at stake and these illegal trading practices jeopardize our nation’s industrial base. I commend the American steel companies and all steelworkers for their tireless advocacy on this issue. I stand with you and I will continue to fight to protect American jobs against unfair trade from countries anywhere in the world,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. Congressman Visclosky testified before the ITC in support of implementing these duties on July 15, 2014. ###
08.20.2014	Michael A. Peterson of Highland completes Visclosky internship U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Highland resident Michael A. Peterson completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Michael is entering his senior year at Valparaiso University. Peterson is President of the Valparaiso University College Democrats, Vice-President of the Valparaiso University Model UN Club, and Vice-President of the Valparaiso University Red Cross Club. Peterson is also a member of the Alpha Lambda Delta National Honor Society and the Pi Sigma Alpha National Political Science Honor Society. “Interning with Congressman Visclosky in both Washington, D.C., and the district office has been a truly enjoyable experience. I have learned about the legislative process and have gained a better understanding of the First Congressional District. It was a pleasure serving the citizens of the Northwest Indiana,” said Peterson. “I appreciate Michael’s willingness to take on the responsibility of serving as an intern in my Congressional office.” Congressman Visclosky said. “Throughout his internship, Michael’s attitude and high standards were a strong asset to my office, and I know these attributes will serve him well in the future.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships for more information. ### Melissa A. Borom of Merrillville completes Visclosky internship U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Merrillville resident Melissa A. Borom completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Melissa is entering her second year at Valparaiso University Law School. Borom will graduate from Valparaiso Law School with the Class of 2016. Borom’s favorite quote during her internship was: “If you intend on being a part of anything, you must first commit.” “Working in Congressman Visclosky’s office has been an exuberant experience, and seeing the level of commitment that this office has shown is astonishing. It is great to know that Congressman Visclosky’s core purpose is serving the residents of the First Congressional District,” said Borom. “I appreciate Melissa’s work in my Merrillville office this summer,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Melissa proved to be a valuable asset while working as a press intern, and I’m thankful that she had the willingness to serve in this capacity. Her dedication to helping others is commendable, and I hope that her experience in our office will serve her well in graduate school and beyond.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships for more information. ### Alexander Wisniewski of Munster completes Visclosky internship U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Munster resident Alexander (Alex) Wisniewski completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Alex is entering his senior year at Munster High School. Wisniewski is an active member of the Munster High School DECA, We the People, as well as the Speech and Debate Team. He plans on pursuing a degree in business in college and eventually a law degree. “This internship has been more than a 9-5 job. This internship has taught me numerous life lessons. I am grateful for the opportunity to work in Congressman Visclosky’s office,” said Wisniewski. “I appreciate Alex’s commitment to public service through his participation in my office’s internship program,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Alex proved to be a valuable asset in our day-to-day operations, and I wish him continued success in all of his future endeavors.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C., offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships for more information. ###
07.31.2014	$200,000 to be for used for the development of Teibel Nature Park Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Indiana Department of Natural Resources has been awarded a $200,000 grant through the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) State and Local Assistance Program. This grant will be allocated to the Schererville Park Board for the development of Teibel Nature Park. “The awarding of the LWCF grant will enhance the quality of life for all residents by providing the Schererville Park Board funding to begin the initial development of the Teibel Nature Preserve into a public park that promotes passive recreation through natural resource preservation and management,” said Superintendent of Parks John Novacich. The grant will provide funding for the Schererville Park Board to help secure 40 acres of additional land, which will be used to develop a picnic area, playground, trail, and additional parking. Visclosky highlighted the importance of the grant to the region, saying, “Public parks are some of our most precious resources. They are tremendously important to the quality of life of the residents of Northwest Indiana and promote community development. I congratulate the Schererville Park Board and Schererville Town Council for successfully securing this grant to aid in the development of Teibel Nature Preserve.” ###
07.17.2014	$ 58,247 to be used for Protective Equipment and Training Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Cedar Lake Volunteer Fire Department has been award a $58,247 grant under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. “This much needed grant funding comes to us at a perfect time. Our department desperately needs updated equipment including new turnout gear. We are grateful to Congressman Visclosky for his efforts in helping our department secure this funding,” said Fire Chief Todd Wilkening. “We depend on our first responders and public safety personnel to keep us safe, and in return we must provide these public servants with the best possible protective equipment available. I thank the Cedar Lake Volunteer Fire Department for their hard work and due diligence in securing this grant,” Congressman Visclosky said. ###
07.15.2014	Testimony Congressman Peter J. Visclosky International Trade Commission Hearing on Certain Oil Country Tubular Goods from India, Korea, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Vietnam July 15, 2014 I would like to thank Chairman Broadbent, Vice Chairman Pinkert, and all of the members of the Commission for the opportunity to present testimony as part of today’s critical hearing on oil country tubular goods. I think that there is no higher priority for our domestic steel industry today than the enforcement of our trade laws, so I thank you and your staff for your diligence and commitment to that end. It does not get more serious for our steel industry than today’s case. U.S. Steel has recently closed plants in Pennsylvania and Texas, and steelworker jobs across the country are threatened by the influx of cheap imports. We must take a stand today and tell countries around the world that we do not allow steel to be dumped here. As you may be aware, this past month, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Murphy and I coordinated a letter to the Department of Commerce, and this letter expressed our concerns regarding their preliminary determination specific to Korea. I would point out that 155 Members of Congress, over a third of the House of Representatives, signed this letter. The letter reminded the Department of Commerce that imports of oil country tubular goods have doubled since 2008, and have increased by 61 percent thus far in 2014 compared to the previous year. The letter also noted that 8,000 workers across the country make OCTG products, and that each of these jobs supports seven additional jobs in the supply chain. The Senate has also been vocal on this issue, with 57 Senators sending a similar letter to the Department of Commerce. Additionally, I have received over 500 e-mails from constituents with the subject line reading “Save Our Steel Jobs.” I think that the message is clear from steel companies, steelworkers, and members of the House and Senate: this case is critical to the future of the American steel industry, and we must take action to defend these workers from illegal trade. During my testimony before you this past May in the case regarding welded stainless pressure pipe from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam, I noted that I had been vocal before this Commission regarding the same product, and that was during a 2009 case involving China. Unfortunately, the circumstances today are identical. On December 1, 2009, I testified before this Commission regarding anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on oil country tubular goods from China. I am pleased that we were successful in that case and that it resulted in a significant decrease in Chinese imports. Unfortunately, the countries involved in today’s case seized on that opportunity and began dumping their OCTG products in our country. Our trade remedies are effective, but we are creating a dangerous trend where protections against one country are leading to an invitation for other countries to exploit our market. We cannot allow this trend to continue. All countries must know that all illegal trade will result in swift and just enforcement of our trade laws, and we must make that statement in today’s case. This past week, the Department of Commerce ruled in their final determination of this case that the there were positive anti-dumping margins for all of the countries involved, including up to 15.75 percent for Korea, 35.86 percent for Turkey, 111.47 percent for Vietnam, and 118.32 percent for Thailand. The Department of Commerce also ruled in their final determination that countervailing duty margins were up to 19.11 percent for India and 15.89 percent for Turkey. Members of the Commission, I thank you again for the opportunity to be a part of today’s hearing. I appreciate your thorough consideration of this case, and urge you to fully enforce our trade laws and issue an affirmative final determination. ###
07.09.2014	Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the East Chicago Fire Department has been award a $126,317 grant under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. “When it comes to public safety, the most frequently asked question is “Do we have back-up?” Time and time again when it comes to FEMA and Congressman Pete Visclosky, I can once again say, “Yes, we have back-up,” said East Chicago Mayor Anthony Copeland. “Firefighters are public servants who put their lives at risk for others and serve as first responders in times of need. I thank the East Chicago Fire Department and the public officials in East Chicago for their work in securing this grant and ensuring that our firefighters have the necessary equipment to safely respond to emergencies,” Congressman Visclosky said. ###
06.24.2014	Merrillville, IN- Today, the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) made affirmative determinations in its final phase antidumping duty investigations concerning welded stainless pressure pipe from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Congressman Visclosky testified before the ITC in defense of the American steel industry during the ITC’s hearing on this case on May 22, 2014. As a result of these determinations, the U.S. Department of Commerce will issue antidumping duty orders on these imports. “I am pleased that the ITC sent the message today that we will not tolerate illegal trade. My commitment to our steelworkers and the Northwest Indiana economy is unwavering, and I will not stop working to prevent illegal steel from being dumped on our shores,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. ###
05.22.2014	Testimony Congressman Peter J. Visclosky International Trade Commission Hearing on Welded Stainless Steel Pressure Pipe from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam May 22, 2014 I would like to thank Chairman Williamson, members of the Commission, and all of the staff, for your work to enforce our trade laws, and for the service that you provide to American workers and the American steel industry. I also thank you for the opportunity to testify as part of today's hearing regarding anti-dumping duties on welded stainless pressure pipe from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. While the steel producers involved in this case are not directly located in the First Congressional District of Indiana, as the Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I would like to convey to you my concerns regarding the current circumstances of steelworkers and steel producers from throughout the country. This past March, Chairman Murphy and I held a Steel Caucus hearing on the state of the steel industry. During this hearing, we heard testimony from representatives of steel companies and from the United Steelworkers. Eight different witnesses provided testimony at the hearing, and the consistent theme of the testimonies was that our country is currently a dumping ground for cheap steel from foreign countries. They all also stressed that we must take action now to protect American jobs and ensure the survival of the American steel industry. One of the individuals to provide testimony was United Steelworkers President Leo Gerard, and he reminded us of the actions that we took around the year 2000. At that time, we worked to pass legislation to establish the steel import notification and monitoring program, and we worked to secure relief for American steelworkers through a Section 201 Safeguard investigation. President Gerard reminded us that as we were working to curb these actions in 2000, foreign competitors continued to target American jobs and flood our market with illegal steel. He said that bold and decisive action is needed again today, and I agree with him. President Gerard’s testimony also reminded me of the action that we in this room have taken before on welded stainless pressure pipe. In 2009, Mr. Murphy and I submitted written testimony on a case involving anti-dumping duties on pressure pipe from China. The ITC and the Department of Commerce ultimately found that the U.S. industry was materially injured or threatened with material injury by illegal subsidies from China. The words of Mr. Gerard ring true in this instance as well, in that as we took action then to stop China, the countries of Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam saw their opportunity to target American jobs and dump their steel products in our country. On December 13, 2013, the Department of Commerce ruled in their preliminary determination of this case that the margins for the anti-dumping duties range in Malaysia from 22.7 percent to 167.11 percent, in Thailand from 7.16 percent to 10.92 percent, and in Vietnam from 17.72 percent to 53.91 percent. These numbers should compel us to take action in this case and send the message to Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam, and all the other steel producing countries of the world, that America will not tolerate one ton of illegal steel. Members of the Commission, American steel jobs are under attack from foreign competitors, and not just from illegal subsidies and dumping activities. This past week you may have seen the headlines indicating that the Chinese military was hacking into the computers of steel company employees and members of the United Steelworkers. I know that the response to that type of action is not under your jurisdiction, but I am deeply alarmed by these allegations. Foreign competitors are stopping at nothing to steal our information, flood our markets, and take our jobs. We have a duty to protect American workers, and this case before today is an essential component of that protection. For these reasons, I respectfully request an affirmative final vote after your thorough consideration of this case. I again thank you for your diligent and thoughtful work, and I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony today. ###
05.01.2014	Merrillville – Congressman Pete Visclosky’s office will host prospective applicants for the five U.S. military academies from 6:00-7:30 p.m., Wednesday, May 14, 2014. Academy night will be held at: Purdue University Calumet Student Union Library Building, Room with a View 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323 Applicants who are from the First Congressional District and interested in attending a military academy are encouraged to attend this event. Students will learn about the educational opportunities and the application process of the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London Members of the Congressman’s Academy Nomination Board will also be on hand to meet prospective applicants. “This is a great opportunity for students to learn about our nation’s military academies,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. “I am pleased to host this meeting, along with representatives from my Military Academy Board, for students interested in receiving a world class education and serving their nation.” For further information, please contact Visclosky’s district office at 219-795-1844. ###
01.06.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 6, 2014Merrillville, IN- Due to the inclement weather, Congressman Pete Visclosky's Town Forum scheduled for Tuesday, January 7, 2014, has been cancelled. The Town Forum was scheduled at the following location: Tuesday, January 7, 2014: 10:00 a.m. CST – Whiting/North Hammond: Calumet College of St. Joseph, 2400 New York Avenue, Whiting, Indiana - cancelled
01.05.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 5, 2014 Merrillville, IN- Due to the inclement weather, Congressman Pete Visclosky's Town Forums scheduled for Monday, January 6, 2014, have been cancelled. The Town Forums were scheduled at the following locations: Monday, January 6, 2014: 10:00 a.m. CST – Hobart: Hobart City Hall, 414 Main Street, Hobart, Indiana 46342- cancelled 12:00 p.m. CST – Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall, 1969 Central Avenue, Lake Station, Indiana 46405-cancelled 2:00 p.m. CST – Gary: Gary YWCA, 150 West 15th Avenue, Gary, Indiana 46407-cancelled 4:00 p.m. CST – East Chicago: East Chicago Main Library, 2401 East Columbus Drive, East Chicago, Indiana 46312-cancelled 6:00 p.m. CST – Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway, Merrillville, Indiana 46410-cancelled "The safety and well-being of the residents of the First Congressional District take precedence and everyone should take the necessary steps to remain safe," Congressman Pete Visclosky said.
12.16.2013	Due to the inclement weather, Congressman Pete Visclosky's Town Forums scheduled for Monday, January 6, 2014 and Tuesday, January 7, 2014 have been cancelled. Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that he will be holding 19 Town Forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District in January. Visclosky hosts the forums each year to give constituents an opportunity to ask questions and to provide an update on the issues facing the region and the country. “Northwest Indiana and the country are faced with many opportunities, including the opportunity to create good-paying jobs through infrastructure investments. These forums allow me to hear the views of my constituents so that I can best represent them in our nation’s capital.” Local students will lead the Pledge of Allegiance and introduce Visclosky to their communities at the start of each forum. “Our bright young people of today are the leaders of tomorrow,” Visclosky said. “I am thankful that each of them have taken the time to participate in these events.” Congressman Visclosky’s 2014 Town Forum Schedule: Friday, January 3, 2014 10:00 a.m. CST – Tri-town: Dyer Town Hall, 1 Town Square, Dyer, Indiana 46311 12:00 p.m. CST – Munster: Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road, Munster, Indiana 46321 2:00 p.m. CST – Hammond: Purdue University Calumet, Room with a View, 2200 169th Street, Hammond, Indiana 46323 4:00 p.m. CST – Highland: Lincoln Center, 2450 Lincoln Street, Room 108 and 109, Highland, Indiana 46322 6:00 p.m. CST – Griffith: Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street, Griffith, Indiana 46319 Saturday, January 4, 2014: 10:00 a.m. CST – Valparaiso: Valparaiso City Hall, 166 Lincolnway, Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 Note: an interpreter for the deaf will be present. 12:00 p.m. CST – Portage: Portage City Hall, 6070 Central Avenue, Portage, Indiana 46368 2:00 p.m. CST – Michigan City: Michigan City-City Hall, 100 East Michigan Boulevard, Michigan City Indiana 46360 4:00 p.m. CST – Chesterton: Westchester Public Library Service Center, 100 West Indiana Avenue, Chesterton, Indiana 46304 6:00 p.m. CST – Gary: American Legion, Miller Dunes Post 27, 6601 Hobart Road, Gary, Indiana 46403 Sunday, January 5, 2014: 2:00 p.m. CST – Hebron: Hebron Community Center, 611 North Main Street, Hebron, Indiana 46341 4:00 p.m. CST – Crown Point: Crown Point Civic Center, 101 South East Street, Crown Point, Indiana 46307 6:00 p.m. CST – Cedar Lake: Fraternal Order of Eagles, 13140 Lake Shore Drive, Cedar Lake, Indiana 46303 Monday, January 6, 2014: **Cancelled due to inclement weather** 10:00 a.m. CST – Hobart: Hobart City Hall, 414 Main Street, Hobart, Indiana 46342 12:00 p.m. CST – Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall, 1969 Central Avenue, Lake Station, Indiana 46405 2:00 p.m. CST – Gary: Gary YWCA, 150 West 15th Avenue, Gary, Indiana 46407 4:00 p.m. CST – East Chicago: East Chicago Main Library, 2401 East Columbus Drive, East Chicago, Indiana 46312 6:00 p.m. CST – Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway, Merrillville, Indiana 46410 Note: an interpreter for the deaf will be present. Tuesday, January 7, 2014: **Cancelled due to inclement weather** 10:00 a.m. CST – Hammond/Whiting: Calumet College of St. Joseph, 2400 New York Avenue, Room 200, Whiting, Indiana 46394
11.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Steel Caucus Vice-Chairman Pete Visclosky and Chairman Tim Murphy sent the attached letter with 48 signatures from additional members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). The letter was formally submitted as part of an ITC investigation into the unfair trade of hot-rolled steel from China, India, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine. The letter stated that it is absolutely vital that the ITC strictly and strongly enforce our trade laws, and urged the ITC to maintain these existing countervailing and antidumping duties. The full text of the letter is as follows: Chairman Irving A. Williamson U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20436 RE: Hot-Rolled Steel Products from China, India, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-405, 406, and 408 and 731-TA-899-901 and 906-908 (Second Review) Dear Chairman Williamson: We are writing to urge the Commission to maintain countervailing duties ("CVD") on imports of hot-rolled steel from India, Indonesia, and Thailand; and to maintain antidumping ("AD") duties on imports of hot-rolled steel from China, India, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine. The Department of Commerce has already determined that if the AD/CVD orders at issue are revoked, imports from the subject countries will again be dumped and subsidized. The only question left for the Commission is whether those unfairly-traded imports will likely cause material injury to domestic producers. We believe this is certainly the case. Domestic producers of hot-rolled steel are recovering from one of the worst economic crises in U.S. history. According to one estimate, U.S. consumption of hot-rolled steel fell by over 43 percent from 2007 to 2009. As a result, domestic producers suffered massive losses. Data in a recent Commission proceeding showed that in 2009, operating losses of U.S. mills totaled $2.3 billion, while almost 18 percent of the U.S. workforce making hot-rolled steel lost their jobs. Furthermore, by last year U.S. consumption had still not returned to 2007 levels. These facts strongly indicate that U.S. mills are in no position to face a new surge of unfair trade. Unfortunately, there are compelling reasons to believe that subject imports will return to this market in significant volumes. By one estimate the subject countries have almost 84 million tons of excess hot-rolling capacity – the inevitable result of the very market-distorting practices that led to the orders at issue. History shows that China, India, and the other subject countries represent some of the world's worst actors in terms of unfair trade and other market-distorting practices. Accordingly, there can be little doubt that the subject producers will have compelling incentives to make sales wherever possible – especially in a market as large and open as this one. If even a relatively minor portion of their unused capacity is used to ship dumped and subsidized hot-rolled steel to this market, the results would be devastating. In addition, we understand that many of the subject producers have refused to participate in the Commission's proceeding, or to provide any information in response to Commission requests. It would be outrageous for companies that have failed to cooperate to be rewarded by having the orders at issue revoked – an outcome that would seriously harm U.S. workers and businesses. For years, Congress has relied upon this Commission to aggressively enforce our nation's trade laws. We believe that by doing so, you give American workers confidence that they are competing on a level playing field, and that our trade policy rewards hard work and innovation – not unfair trade. At a time of enormous challenges for the U.S. economy – and for U.S. manufacturers in particular – it is absolutely vital that the Commission strictly and strongly enforce our trade laws. We urge you to do so here, and to keep this critical relief in place. Respectfully submitted, Tim Murphy Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus Peter J. Visclosky Vice Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus Signatories: 1. Murphy, Tim (R-PA) 2. Visclosky, Peter J.(D-IN) 3. McKinley, David (R-WV) 4. Jones, Walter (R-NC) 5. Rahall, Nick (D-WV) 6. Michaud, Michael (D-ME) 7. Kaptur, Marcy (D-OH) 8. Loebsack, David (D-IA) 9. Doyle, Mike (D-PA) 10. Green, Gene (D-TX) 11. Bachus, Spencer (R-AL) 12. Johnson, Bill (R-OH) 13. Enyart, Bill (D-IN) 14. Bishop, Rob (R-UT) 15. Sewell, Terri (D-AL) 16. Stivers, Steve (R-OH) 17. Lipinski, Dan (D-IN) 18. Dingell, John (D-MI) 19. Crawford, Rick (R-AR) 20. Fortenberry, Jeff (R-NE) 21. Butterfield, GK (D-NC) 22. Brooks, Mo (R-AL) 23. Gibbs, Bob (R-OH) 24. Hudson, Richard (R-NC) 25. Walberg, Tim (R-MI) 26. Smith, Jason (R-MO) 27. Schwartz, Allyson (D-PA) 28. Wilson, Joe (R-SC) 29. Graves, Sam (R-MO) 30. Sanchez, Linda (D-CA) 31. Ryan, Tim (D-OH) 32. Harper, Gregg (R-MS) 33. Shuster, Bill (R-PA) 34. Capito, Shelley Moore (R-WV) 35. Rothfus, Keith (R-PA) 36. Turner, Michael (R-OH) 37. Clyburn, James (D-SC) 38. Peters, Gary (D-MI) 39. Stutzman, Marlin (R-IN) 40. Pittenger, Robert (R-NC) 41. Rokita, Todd (R-IN) 42. McCollum, Betty (D-MN) 43. Aderholt, Robert (R-AL) 44. Hall, Ralph (R-TX) 45. Rice, Tom (R-SC) 46. Shimkus, John (R-IL) 47. Fudge, Marcia (D-OH) 48. Cohen, Steve (D-TN) 49. Kinzinger, Adam (R-IL) 50. Long, Billy (R-MO) Click here to view the letter.
10.31.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, testified today before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), urging the Commission to maintain the current countervailing and anti-dumping measures on hot-rolled steel products from China, India, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine. Congressman Visclosky stated that the proper enforcement of trade laws is vital to American steelworkers, and that the steel industry must recover in this fragile economy without the fear of injury from unfair trade. The full testimony is as follows: I would like to first thank Chairman Williamson, the members of the Commission, and the staff, for the work that you do to uphold our trade laws, for your commitment to public service, and for the opportunity to be a part of today’s hearing. The recent government shutdown provided countless examples of negative impacts from Congress’s inability to come to a budget agreement, but I want you to know that the shutdown took on a new reality for me when I realized that I would not be able to participate in this hearing originally scheduled for October 3, 2013. I implored on the House floor numerous times during the shutdown that we have a country to run, and an integral part of running this country is the work that you and your staff do here at the International Trade Commission. Therefore, I thank you for your work and for your timeliness in rescheduling today’s very important hearing. As the Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I believe that the proper enforcement of our trade laws is vital to American steelworkers. What is at stake today are American steel jobs. Steel jobs take skill, know-how, innovation, and teamwork. They are jobs that provide a living-wage, and allow workers to invest in their families and their communities. This is essential in the communities in the First Congressional District of Indiana, and in communities throughout America. To illustrate, along with Chairman Murphy of the Eighteenth Congressional District of Pennsylvania, the Congressional Steel Caucus gathered the signatures of 48 other Members of Congress from around the country in a letter to you in support of maintaining the current countervailing and anti-dumping duties at issue in this case. The orders before you cover dumped and subsidized hot-rolled steel from six countries, including China, India, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine. As the Department of Commerce has already stated, the revocation of the anti-dumping duty orders would likely lead to the continuation or recurrence of dumping at margins as great as 90.83 percent, and the revocation of countervailing duty orders would likely lead to the continuation or recurrence of a countervailable subsidy at rates as great as 563.5 percent. There also are massive capacity increases throughout these countries, and persistent patterns of unfair trading practices in other steel product lines. Specifically, it is estimated that hot-rolled steel capacity in China has grown from approximately 175 million metric tons in 2006 to approximately 385 million metric tons in 2012, and in India, hot-rolled steel capacity has grown from approximately 16 million metric tons in 2006 to approximately 37 million metric tons in 2012. I would add that because of the depressed conditions of their own economies, removing our protections would release a flood of dumped and subsidized imports, leading again to material injury for American steel manufacturers and the loss of American jobs. Additionally, as noted in the Steel Caucus letter, American steel is still recovering in this fragile economy. From 2007 to 2009, U.S. consumption of hot-rolled steel fell by over 43 percent and data from a previous Commission proceeding showed that in 2009, U.S. mills had an operating loss of $2.3 billion and 18 percent of the U.S. workforce making hot-rolled steel lost their jobs. As of last year, U.S. consumption had still not returned to 2007 levels, and as of last week, the Northwest Indiana Times, a local newspaper in my district, noted that U.S. Steel is predicted to lose money for the fourth consecutive quarter and ArcelorMittal is predicted to lose money for the fifth consecutive quarter. Members of the Commission, American steel jobs are at stake, and we must do all that we can to allow American workers to recover in this fragile economy without the fear of further injury from unfair trade. Therefore, I respectfully request that you keep these orders in place, and again, I thank you for your tireless work and for your fair and thorough consideration of this case.
10.23.2013	Portage, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Portage-based NorthShore Health Centers will receive $1,280,224 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as a continuing grant under the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Fiscal Year 2014 Service Area Competition. This federal funding will allow NorthShore to continue providing affordable primary care to their patients, including medical, dental, behavioral health, and pharmacy services, regardless of patients’ level of health insurance coverage. “NorthShore was happy to receive word from Congressman Visclosky that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded us $1.28 million,” said NorthShore C.E.O. Jan Wilson. “We are very fortunate to have Congressman Visclosky’s support as we continue to move forward and offer services to residents of Northwest Indiana.” “Since 1997, NorthShore Health Centers has dramatically improved the quality of life for families throughout Northwest Indiana,” said Congressman Visclosky. “I thank NorthShore’s dedicated staff for their commitment to improve the scope and the quality of care available to all.” Last year, NorthShore served more than 34,000 patients in over 100,000 visits, an increase of almost seven times the number of patients recorded when NorthShore first became a HRSA grantee in 2003. In the upcoming fiscal year, NorthShore anticipates serving more than 45,000 patients with over 140,000 visits.
10.16.2013	“I supported the budget agreement reached in the United State Senate in order to reopen the federal government and ensure that our financial obligations are met. For some years, Congress has failed in its responsibility to provide for the predictable and efficient delivery of services and protections important to all Americans. This failure has reduced the effectiveness of our government and distracted attention from strengthening our economy and creating good-paying jobs. Despite past disappointments, I am committed to working hard with all of my colleagues to use this temporary respite as a real opportunity to comprehensively address our national budget in a balanced fashion, and to achieve the reasoned and timely completion of all Fiscal Year 2014 funding measures with an emphasis on investing in our economy.” Congressman Visclosky said.
10.05.2013	Merrillville, IN- Congressman Pete Visclosky took to the House Floor yesterday to voice his strong opposition to piecemeal measures that would only provide short-term funding for small pieces of the federal government, while leaving the vast majority of federal programs and agencies unfunded. “What have we come to here? We have the best country in the world. It’s time we start running it again. I’m opposed to this piecemeal approach,” Congressman Visclosky said. For full video, please click on: Congressman Visclosky Floor Statement 10/3/13 ###
10.04.2013	Merrillville, IN- Congressman Visclosky announced that the Jobs and Opportunity Fair, originally scheduled for Monday, October 21, 2013, from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM at the A.K. Smith Career Center in Michigan City, has been postponed due to the ongoing government shutdown. “I am committed to working with area employers and civic leaders to provide constituents with opportunities to search, apply, and learn about quality, good-paying jobs located right here in Indiana’s First Congressional District. We need to reopen our government immediately and return to doing the people’s business,” said Congressman Visclosky. Updated information will be sent once a new date is confirmed.
10.03.2013	Merrillville, IN-The hearing scheduled today before the U.S. International Trade Commission has been cancelled due the government shutdown. Congressman Visclosky was set to testify on behalf the domestic steel industry, including U.S. Steel and ArcelorMittal, before the U.S. International Trade Commission. He serves as Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or have a strong interest in the vitality of the American steel industry. “The cancellation of today’s hearing is just one example of how this government shutdown adversely impacts our economy and costs American jobs. It is unfortunate that the U.S. International Trade Commission has ceased their investigative activities as a result of this shutdown. This has given foreign nations and companies free reign to continue to violate our trade laws and jeopardize the livelihood of American workers.” Congressman Visclosky said. “We need to restore our government operations and lead with courage. I urge the House of Representatives leadership to reopen our government.” The steel industry has been central to Northwest Indiana's way of life since the first mills arrived on the Lake Michigan shoreline over 100 years ago. Today, the American manufacturing industry faces threats on several fronts. The loopholes in Buy America protections have prevented the use of American steel on infrastructure projects. Abroad, illegally-subsidized imports from foreign nations that devalue their currencies continue to flood the market. To read the shutdown notice issued by the U.S. International Trade Commission, please visit: https://www.usitc.gov/documents/shutdown2013plan.pdf
09.30.2013	Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement on the looming Government Shutdown: “I am committed to working hard on behalf of my constituents and the institution in which I am privileged to serve, in order to continue the effective operation of the federal government and fulfill my obligations under the U.S. Constitution. I regret that some of my colleagues seem to have forgotten that we are elected to govern, and this can only be accomplished by deliberative discussions and reasonable compromise.”
09.27.2013	Merrillville, IN – Today Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the East Chicago and Gary Police Departments have been awarded grants through the U.S. Department of Justice Office – Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring program. Award Recipient Name Total Officers Awarded Estimated Award Amount The City of East Chicago 5 $625,000 The City of Gary 10 $1,230,383 “These awards represent an investment in Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement and will allow for the hiring of at least 15 officers,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I commend the East Chicago and Gary Police Departments for their commitment to promote innovative ways to increase public safety.” According to the U.S. Department of Justice, grantees for the 2013 hiring program were selected based on their fiscal needs, local crime rates, and their community policing plans. There was an additional focus this year on agencies requesting assistance in developing school safety programs that would include the hiring of a school resource officer. School resource officer positions funded by the COPS Office are sworn law enforcement positions that work within a school district or facility, interacting directly with school administrators and students. “This award is verification that the City of East Chicago is making progress with our proactive and innovative concepts,” said East Chicago Police Chief Mark Becker. “We recognize that working together with the residents of our city is extremely important to our success. We are proud of what we’ve been able to achieve and look forward to leading additional community oriented programs.” The COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has awarded over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 125,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, and technical assistance. “With all of the measures we have been implementing to combat and prevent crime in our city, receiving this grant is a welcomed addition,” said Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. “Community policing is extremely important when it comes to building strong neighborhoods and healthy relationships with those who serve and protect us every day.” To learn more information about the 2013 COPS Hiring Program, visit the COPS website at www.cops.usdoj.gov.
09.27.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services – Administration for Children and Families through the Basic Center Program awarded $186,798.00 to the Crisis Center Inc. located in Gary, Indiana. “The continued efforts by the Crisis Center to make a positive difference and improve the quality of life for the youth of Northwest Indiana is truly inspirational and should be recognized,” said Congressman Pete Visclosky. “This funding will support their approach in taking the necessary proactive steps to continue making a positive impact in the lives of many young people.” About the Crisis Center: The Crisis Center has been providing emergency shelter and other services to runaway and homeless youth since 1976. Its Alternative House is the only program in Lake County, and its adjoining counties, that provides emergency shelter for youth who are not in the child welfare system and who may believe their circumstances may be as such that remaining in existing living conditions does not appear to be a healthy alternative. Crisis Center has become a valuable resource to those in need of safe, immediate shelter and other services. Currently, Crisis Center provides outreach through 395 Safe Place sites in Lake and Porter Counties. Additionally, it serves more than 300 homeless children a year, for up to 20 days, and offers 20 beds for boys and girls ages 10 to 18. While Crisis Center addresses the immediate need for shelter, it also provides group and family counseling aimed at resolving problems and ultimately returning its charges to their homes. For more information the website to the Crisis Center is https://www.crisiscenterysb.org/
09.20.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded $472,819 to Michigan City Municipal/Phillips Field Airport and $410,700 to the Griffith-Merrillville Airport. “Investment in Northwest Indiana’s regional transportation network creates jobs and enhances our position as an attractive place to work and live.” Congressman Visclosky said. “I appreciate the efforts at Michigan City/Phillips Field and Griffith-Merrillville Airports to secure this important funding.” Funds allotted to the Michigan City Municipal/Phillips Field Airport will be used to replace approximately 1.5 miles of perimeter fencing, supplanting shorter fences with a ten-foot wildlife fence. This sort of barrier is recommended for airports in heavily forested areas, as it is designed to keep wildlife off of runways. “I would like to thank our federal and state officials for assisting us in taking this next progressive step in creating a safer environment for aircraft traffic here on our airfield,” said Michigan City Airport Manager Jessica Ward. Griffith-Merrillville Airport’s grant will be used to continue the ongoing effort to extend its parallel taxiway. This safety feature, once completed, will eliminate the need for aircraft to backtrack on the active runway. “This FAA Airport Improvement Program grant will help to greatly enhance the safety of operations at the Griffith-Merrillville Airport by allowing us to finalize the engineering and acquire the property we need to complete the west taxiway connection to our terminal area,” said Griffith-Merrillville Airport Manager Craig Anderson. The 2012 Indiana Airport’s Economic Impact Study indicates that Griffith-Merrillville Airport and Michigan City Municipal/Phillips Field each have an estimated economic impact of over $50 million annually.
09.20.2013	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that Valparaiso University was awarded a $2,301,379 grant through the Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E) at the U.S. Department of Energy. The award will enable energy efficient, lightweight metals manufacturing by incorporating solar technologies in a metals production process. More specifically, this technology will provide the College of Engineering faculty and students the opportunity to develop a unique electrochemical cell that produces magnesium using solar-thermal energy in their metals separation process, which could potentially reduce carbon dioxide emissions and electricity consumption associated with current metals manufacturing. “I am proud of Valparaiso University for being at the forefront of innovation in energy research,” Congressman Visclosky said. “It is my hope that their advancements in cutting-edge solar technologies will promote the use of American renewable energy for generations to come.” “With this funding from the Department of Energy, Valpo faculty and students will push forward the energy science frontier by exploring new methods for using solar energy,” Valparaiso University President Mark A. Heckler, Ph.D., said. “The research conducted at the James S. Markiewicz Solar Energy Research Facility will provide new, more efficient energy sources for creating commodities, positively impacting both the local and the national economies.” Congressman Visclosky has long advocated that in order to transition from a carbon-based economy, we must have a comprehensive approach to our energy policy that emphasizes conservation first and encourages the most efficient use of a broad range of fuels, including solar. For more information on ARPA-E and its innovative project portfolio, please visit https://www.arpa-e.energy.gov/.
09.19.2013	Hammond, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that Purdue University Calumet was awarded a $2,741,491 grant through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program at the U.S. Department of Labor. The grant will provide training to Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) eligible workers, veterans, and other qualified persons seeking opportunities in Northwest Indiana’s regional manufacturing industry. It is expected that the project will impact at least 300 individuals by allowing for the opportunity to attain one or more industry certifications. Individuals receiving this training will be eligible to join the workforce as mechatronics technicians and industrial machinery mechanics. “Putting our citizens to work is my foremost priority. It is incumbent upon us to invest in a well-trained workforce to protect the jobs of today and create the jobs of tomorrow. I am pleased to know that this grant will address the needs of area industry and build upon the existing successes of our region’s advanced manufacturing sector,” Congressman Visclosky said. The U.S. Department of Labor is implementing and administering the program in coordination with the U.S. Department of Education. Chancellor Tom Keon, Purdue University Calumet, explained that the College of Technology has been working on workforce development in Northwest Indiana for several years. “It is important to note that our manufacturing partners need an educated workforce with proper training at many different levels. The College of Technology at Purdue University Calumet is dedicated to providing qualified graduates and to training the NWI workforce in areas of sophistication that are needed in our ever evolving manufacturing technologies,” Chancellor Keon said.
09.13.2013	Congressman Pete Visclosky testified yesterday before the Indiana General Assembly’s Joint Study Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Assessment and Solutions. In his remarks, Congressman Visclosky emphasized the need to establish a permanent non-federal source of matching revenue to expand the South Shore Line to Lowell and Valparaiso. He believes that this type of investment in opportunity will generate a new future and lure the next generation of Hoosiers to stay and move to Northwest Indiana. TESTIMONY OF CONGRESSMAN VISCLOSKY: Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you, Vice-Chairman Wyss, and all of the members of the Joint Study Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Assessment and Solutions, for your initiative in holding this critical hearing. As you assess the transportation and infrastructure needs of Indiana, and in this instance Northwest Indiana, I appear before you to ask for your assistance. We are in the midst of a troubling trend in Northwest Indiana, a trend where our population is decreasing, our wealth is decreasing, and our age is increasing. Therefore, I ask for your assistance in fashioning a permanent non-federal source of matching revenue to expand the South Shore Line to Lowell and Valparaiso. I am certain that creating such an investment tool would inure to the benefit of not only the people in our region, but to the profit of the entire state. A century ago, our ancestors transformed Northwest Indiana into one of the world’s premier industrial and manufacturing centers. My grandfather and grandmother came to this region to make a better life for themselves and their children. They worked hard to invest in opportunities that led to a dynamic regional economy. As I look at Northwest Indiana today, Lake County in particular, we are fewer, poorer, and older. Now, more than ever, we need to again invest in opportunity. Between 1970 and 2010, the entire population of the United States of America saw a growth of 51.7 percent, from 203 million people to 308 million people. Over that same time period, the population of Lake County, Indiana, decreased by 9.2 percent, from 546,000 individuals to 496,000 individuals. Also between 1970 and 2010, Lake County saw a decrease of 12.9 percent of its median income per year, from $56,776 in 1970 to $49,443 in 2010. Lake County also saw a 42.3 percent increase in its median age, from 26 years old in 1970 to 37 years old in 2010. Porter County and LaPorte County have better stories, as their incomes and populations have increased, but their median ages are increasing as well. Why is this so? Why is there waning growth and vibrancy from our predecessors’ investment in opportunities? Has it been because of a lack of resources? No. We are on the shore of the largest body of fresh water in the world. We are intersected by four interstate highways and two U.S. highways that travel across our country. Freight rail from the East Coast passes through Northwest Indiana on its way west, and we are in the environs of Chicago and its $500 billion economy and 4 million jobs. We also have started to reinvest in our region. It is only though the diligent efforts of many public officials, labor, business leaders, and local government entities that we have made significant progress on the Grand Calumet River cleanup and the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal dredging. The Little Calumet River Flood Control Project is nearly complete. Today we can see portions of our lakeshore being transformed to encourage economic growth, and construction is taking place at the Gary Chicago Airport. Cutting-edge research and investments are also occurring at our institutions of higher learning, such as the Center for Innovation through Visualization and Simulation at Purdue University Calumet. But today, Lake County is fewer, poorer, and older. What is lacking? I believe the answer is connection. We need to invest in the thread that will weave through Northwest Indiana and connect all our efforts and natural abilities. We need connection through a meaningful mass transportation system in Northwest Indiana. We need connection through the expansion of the South Shore Line. It is clear that transit oriented development works and that it is a means to diversify our economy. For example, Washington, D.C., experienced a large amount of commercial development when Metrorail was constructed. In the years of its completion, 97 percent of the regional economic development took place in close proximity to a Metrorail station. And consider Chicago’s economy, which is larger than the economy of Sweden. One reason for its economic dominance is because there are 410 miles of commuter rail lines in Illinois emanating from the Chicago Loop. Attached to this testimony is a Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District map that shows these Illinois rail lines. It also shows the one line to the Chicago Loop from Indiana, with its 35 miles of commuter rail from the Illinois border to Michigan City. Chicago knows the value of commuter rail, as its planning documents call for 75 percent of their resident homes to be within walking distance of public transit by 2040. Chicago’s average job pays 38 percent more than a job in Northwest Indiana, and we need to facilitate the movement of people to those jobs. We need to have expanded South Shore service so that young, talented people realize that Northwest Indiana, with our affordable housing and low tax rates, and with access to the economy, culture, sports, and entertainment of Chicago, is the place to live, raise a family, and yes – invest in new jobs. But as I sit before you today, I am frustrated by our inability to secure the success of this expansion. Over the years, we’ve been able to provide $43.4 million to recapitalize and improve the existing South Shore Line. In 2004, twelve communities and two counties came together to pool their resources and study the expansion of the South Shore Line. In 2005, the Regional Development Authority was established with one of its explicit charges being the expansion of the South Shore Line. In 2006 and 2007, ultimately futile attempts were made to expand the South Shore Line, and in 2008 we experienced the greatest recession in nearly three-quarters of a century. As with many initiatives at that time, thoughts on the expansion of the South Shore Line slowly faded away. In the meantime, we are fewer, poorer, and older. The cost of expanding the South Shore Line to Dyer, as a first leg, in 2011 was estimated to be $464.4 million, and 50 percent of which is to be provided through a return of your federal tax dollars. Since Fiscal Year 2010, the federal government has spent nearly $11 billion each year on transit oriented development projects across the country. That is your money, and it is currently going to Illinois Chicagoland stations, like the stations at Prairie Crossing and Arlington Heights, and commercial development and residential properties are following that money. We need to bring these federal dollars to our own transit system, and that starts with a permanent non-federal match. I alluded earlier to the investment in opportunities that an earlier generation made. Their investments drew spirited, young people to this region, and we must do the same today. Young people today simply are not driving as much, and we must recognize that preference. According to a report released by U.S. PIRG this past May, young people today are more likely to want to live in urban areas and are more open to non-driving forms of transportation than older Americans. Those between the age of 16 and 34 years of age drove 23 percent fewer miles in 2009 than they did in 2001. Because of this trend demonstrated by our youth, while our total national population is expected to increase 29 percent by 2030, over that same time period the annual vehicle miles traveled is not expected to increase above 2004 levels. Mr. Chairman, the youth of Northwest Indiana, in many instances, leave our region to receive training in a particular craft or skill. Some nobly choose to serve our nation in the military. Others leave for higher education. Then most never return. We desperately need your assistance, and I respectfully request that you, Vice-Chairman Wyss, and all of the members of this panel, work with our political and community leaders, using your inimitable creativity, to finally fashion a solution for this expansion. We need to find a way to fund the creation of the thread – the South Shore Line – that will weave together and connect all of our efforts, generate a new future, and lure the next generation to stay and move to Northwest Indiana, so that someday people will remark on the Shining City on the Lake. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify, and I would be happy to take any questions that you may have at this time.
09.01.2013	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded $156,656 to Porter County Regional Airport for rehabilitation and maintenance. The grant is the first in a multistep process to maintain and enhance Porter County Regional Airport. It will fund immediate repairs to taxiway pavement and an environmental review for rehabilitation on a runway that the FAA has deemed to be nearing the end of its usable life. Airport Director Kyle Kuebler said of the project, “This grant award represents efforts to maintain critical infrastructure at the airport.” “Investment in Northwest Indiana’s infrastructure is essential to the vitality of our regional economy,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Projects that maintain and upgrade our transportation network create good paying jobs as well as attract new economic activity.” The Porter County Regional Airport accommodates over 50,000 flights each year. The 2012 Indiana Airport’s Economic Impact Study indicates that Porter County Regional Airport has an estimated economic impact of over $17.2 million annually.
08.28.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Merrillville native Matthew Kochevar completed a summer internship at his Washington, D.C. office. Matthew is a law student at Valparaiso University Law School and is a graduate of Merrillville High School. Kochevar is currently studying for his Juris Doctor at Valparaiso University Law School. He is the Young Democrats’ First District Chair, as well as the Order of American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association District 12 governor. He also sits on the Saints Constantine & Helen Greek Orthodox Cathedral Parish Council. After graduation, Matthew plans to take the Indiana bar exam and pursue a career in public policy. Kochevar said of his summer, “I had a great experience interning for Congressman Visclosky. While there, I was able to meet many of Pete’s constituents who were visiting Washington, help ensure that their concerns and opinions were heard, and get a personal view the Congressman advocating for Northwest Indiana in the House of Representatives.” “I appreciate Matthew’s efforts in our Washington, D.C. office this summer,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am confident that his talents will serve him well in his professional career in public policy.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.28.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Portage native Craig Kaminski completed a summer internship at his Washington, D.C. office. Kaminski is a senior at Indiana University with a double major in Political Science and History, and a minor in Philosophy. Besides his double major and minor coursework, Kaminski is a member of the Sigma Alpha Lambda Academic Honor Society and the Catholic Society. After graduation, Kaminski plans to attend law school, and pursue a career in public service. Kamiski said of his time in Washington, “Interning at the office of Congressman Visclosky is an enlightening experience where our future leaders can have the opportunity to gain an immediate insightful understanding of today’s politics in order to be better prepared for our responsibilities of tomorrow.” “I appreciate Craig’s work in my Washington, D.C. office this summer,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Throughout his internship, he asked many questions and was very inquisitive. I am sure that the experience he gained in our office will serve him well in law school and in his future.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.28.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Munster native Deepa Devanathan completed a summer internship at his Washington, D.C. office. Devanathan is entering her sophomore year at Washington University in Saint Louis. Along with her dual major in Political Science and Anthropology, Devanathan participates in Washington University Mock Trial and contributes to the Washington University Political Review. She plans to attend law school after graduation. “It was an honor to intern for Congressman Visclosky. My experience was exciting and thought-provoking. I learned so much from the Congressman about the meaning of public service and the importance of hard work. Coming out of this wonderful opportunity I feel much better-rounded in my knowledge of government and service,” said Devanathan. “I appreciated being able to count on Deepa’s ability to conduct detailed research on a variety of topics throughout the course of her internship in my Washington D.C. office,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am certain that her talent and professionalism will serve her well throughout her college career and in her professional life.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.28.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Schererville native Morgan Gozdecki completed a summer internship at his Washington, D.C. office. Gozdecki is entering her junior year at Indiana University. Gozdecki majors in Political Science at Indiana University with a minor in Policy Analysis. She volunteers annually at Camp Kesem and is a member of Delta Zeta Sorority. After graduation, Gozdecki intends to pursue a career in public service. “I truly could not have asked for a more successful summer in Washington D.C.,” Gozdecki said. “Not only did Congressman Visclosky and his staff welcome us interns with open arms, but they made an effort to answer any questions we needed and provide advice on our future careers, all while running an extremely organized and productive office. It was a pleasure working with both the D.C. and the District staff.” “I appreciate Morgan’s commitment to helping others through public service,” said Congressman Visclosky. “She brought a positive, can-do attitude to the Washington, D.C. office and I am confident that she will do well in her professional pursuits.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.16.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Lowell resident Ashley Mason completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Ashley is entering her senior year at Purdue University Calumet. Mason majors in journalism with a minor in political science. She is a graduate of Lowell Senior High School, class of 2010. She intends to seek a graduate degree in political science following graduation at Purdue University Calumet. “I appreciate Ashley’s work in my Merrillville office this summer,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Her dedication to public service is commendable and I hope that her experience in our office will serve her well in graduate school.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.16.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Munster resident Cassidy Schwartz completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Cassidy is entering her senior year at Munster High School. Schwartz is co-president of the Munster branch of Child Rights and You (CRY) nonprofit organization. She is also an active member of the National Honor Society and Speech and Debate Team at Munster High. She plans on pursuing a degree in cognitive neuroscience with a minor in Spanish when she attends college next year. “Through my participation in an AP Government class and the We the People Team, I developed a profound interest in politics and the mechanisms of government. Working for Congressman Visclosky in his district office gave me an insider’s perspective on the ways in which politicians serve the people. My duties in the office put my writing, interpersonal, and research skills to the test.” said Schwartz. “I appreciate Cassidy’s willingness to take on the responsibility of serving as an intern in my Congressional office.” Congressman Visclosky said. “Throughout her internship, Cassidy’s attitude and high standards proved to be assets to my office. As someone who has dedicated their life to public service, I know these attributes will serve her well in the future.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
08.16.2013	U.S. Congressman Peter J. Visclosky announced today that Valparaiso resident Sofia Grimsgard completed a summer internship at his Merrillville district office. Sofia is entering her junior year at Valparaiso High School. Grimsgard is an active member of the Valparaiso High School Student Council, French and Spanish Clubs, as well as the Speech and Debate Team. She plans on pursuing a degree in political science and/or communications in college. “Congressman Visclosky defines the term hardworking, so interning for him during this summer has been an absolute pleasure,” said Grimsgard. “Also, working with the casework staff to serve the constituents of the First Congressional District has been an amazing experience.” “I appreciate Sofia’s commitment to public service through her participation in my office’s internship program,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Sofia proved to be a valuable asset in our day to day operation and I’m thankful that at her young age she had the willingness to serve in this capacity. I wish her continued success in all of her future endeavors and I am confident that she will be successful in her academic and professional pursuits.” Congressman Visclosky offers internships in his district and Washington, D.C. offices throughout the year. Intern applicants must be enrolled in high school or college, be eligible to receive school or service organization credit, and are encouraged to have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher. Visit https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/internships.
07.31.2013	This week as the House considered the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, Congressman Pete Visclosky took to the House floor to stand up for essential investments in America's future. Full text of his remarks are below. Click here for a video of his remarks. “Mr. Chairman, I, first of all, want to thank the chairman of the subcommittee, the ranking member, and all of the members of the subcommittee for their very good work. Given the allocation they have, they have done their very best. “I would follow up on a number of remarks by my colleagues, including the chairman, and that is we need a deal. And my plea to the membership is we cannot continue to go on like this. “This process no longer is on time. Our year starts October 1. In 2007, we finished in February. In 2008, we finished in December. In 2009, we finished in March. In 2010, we finished in December. In fiscal year 2011, we finished in April. In 2012, we finished in December. This year, we finished on March 26. “Since 2007, we should have enacted 84 individual appropriation bills. We have enacted nine individually--about 10 percent of our work. Unfortunately, the body has made the work of this subcommittee, the full committee, and the other 11 subcommittees very difficult. “For fiscal year 2013, our committee was given a target in the summer of 2011, under the Budget Control Act. The target was changed under a resolution passed by the House for the budget in the spring of 2012. The target was changed again on January 1, 2013. Subsequently, we have sequestration. My plea to the general membership is, please, just give this exceptional committee one target and let us do our work. “I also am fearful because we are operating most agencies, including the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, under a continuing resolution that, for the vast majority of my colleagues, makes no difference. You wouldn't run your house or your business exactly the way you did last year. “We made these agencies wait 7 months to tell them they can keep doing the same thing for another 5 months, and on October 1 of this year we're going to do it again. “Some people say we're spending too much money. I agree, which is why I have actually brought a chart to the floor. We balanced a budget under President Nixon in 1969 for 1 year. We balanced a budget for 4 years under President Clinton. During those years, Federal spending was about 18.9 percent of GDP. For fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013, it was about 22.7. The response of this body is: we will do the Budget Control Act, and we will have mindless sequestration and treat all discretionary accounts the same. “Some people say we don't have enough revenue. They're absolutely right. When President Nixon and President Clinton balanced a budget for those 5 years, revenue was 20.1 percent of GDP. Today, it is 16.2. “We had a bill passed on January 1 that effectively now has limited us as far as any future revenue. I would point out 204 Members of this body voted for that bill in a bipartisan fashion, and 219 Members of this body today, in a bipartisan fashion, voted for the Budget Control Act, even though most of them complain about sequestration. “Today, we have the allocations this great subcommittee is faced with, and we are pounding our discretionary accounts. The fact is, in 1963 over 67 percent of what we spent as a national government was an investment in the future, in our children's future. In fiscal year 2012, that was down to 26 percent. “For those who want to continue this madness of going after discretionary spending, and particularly domestic discretionary spending--Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development--I would point out that year, if we had eliminated the Government of the United States, eliminated the Congress and the Presidency and every agency except the Department of Defense and the entitlement programs, and did nothing on taxes, our deficit last year was $472 billion. It is estimated this year, if we got rid of the Department of Transportation--which I think some people are trying to do with this allocation--if we got rid of HUD, if we got rid of the government, except for defense, except for entitlements, and did nothing on taxes, this year's deficit would be $153 billion. “The American Society of Civil Engineers this year gave our country--the United States of America, the greatest country on Earth--a D-plus for our infrastructure. I have a bridge that was blown up in my district next to ArcelorMittal and BP. That's not helping create jobs. “They claim we are about $1.6 trillion short between now and 2020 investing in infrastructure. That's what this bill is about, investing in the future. “We do need a deal; and the chairman mentioned it, the ranking member mentioned it. We do have to talk about entitlements for the sake of our children. What about our children when Social Security is insolvent in 2033? What about our children when Medicare is insolvent in 2024? We need to address those issues; and we need to address the issue of revenue to make sure we have enough to invest in those highways, in those classrooms, in those research institutes so that we can have a full and vibrant economy going forward. “For those who want to balance the budget and are about this madness of sequestration and crushing domestic discretionary spending, hurting defense discretionary spending, I would also point out that the Congressional Budget Office indicated in October of 2011 that for fiscal year 2012, one-third of the deficit would have gone away if we simply were at full employment. “So it is time to talk to each other. It is time to put everything on the table. It is time to invest in this country. And I would hope we do that sooner rather than later. “I appreciate very much the gentleman yielding me time.”
07.01.2013	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Center for Mental Health Services has awarded $399,918 to Porter-Starke Services to fund the collaborative Strong Mind, Strong Body Wellness Program. The program will be based on a framework devised by Porter-Starke Services and HealthLinc, whereby patients with serious mental illnesses have access to medical care at their community mental health center (CMHC). Through this program, HealthLinc will offer on-site medical services for patients at Porter-Starke Services, the Swanson Center, and Oaklawn Psychiatric Center, giving patients with serious mental illness the attention and added care they need. Aileen Wehren, Vice President of Systems Administration at Porter-Starke Services, said of the grant, “For the past three years we have operated a clinic out of our facility in conjunction with HealthLinc. We have had tremendous success improving overall health by providing on-site medical services and focusing on wellness, not illness. In joining with our partner CMHCs we expand our knowledge base to other organizations that can improve patient wellness throughout the region. The purpose of this program is to help the people that we serve feel better and live longer, and this grant will allow us to do just that.” Congressman Visclosky said, “Each of the organizations involved in this program has a proven track-record of improving the quality of life for their patients, and is dedicated to making a difference in the lives of those they serve. I thank them for working together to secure this vital funding, and for their good work on behalf of their clients.” The award, a Mental Health & Substance Abuse Service grant, is distributed by the Center for Mental Health Services. The Center for Mental Health Services leads Federal efforts to treat mental illnesses by promoting mental health and by preventing the development or worsening of mental illness when possible. ###
06.26.2013	Crown Point, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that Purdue Technology Center-based Euclid Diagnostics, Inc., will receive a $287,000 grant through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. The grant will fund research into new methods to identify individuals who require biopsies for prostate cancer. Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana Director Kathy DeGuilio-Fox said of the award, “The work being done at Euclid Diagnostics, LLC to develop a screening test for prostate cancer will benefit people around the world. The company is one of several based at the Purdue Technology Center in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana whose focus is on the life sciences and health care technology. All companies located in the park are improving people’s lives by developing processes and products in multiple sectors, including life sciences, energy, engineering, information technology and media.” “Euclid Diagnostics receiving this highly competitive award represents a great moment for the company, Purdue Technology Center, and the community,” Congressman Visclosky said. “It proves that private-public partnerships can create jobs and increase opportunity in Northwest Indiana. This sort of groundbreaking, innovative research speaks to the vision and capability of Euclid Diagnostics, and the quality of support offered by the Purdue Technology Center.” SBIR is a competitive grant program designed to assist small businesses with research and development on projects with prospects for commercialization. From SBIR’s creation in 1982 through 2009, the program funded over 112,500 awards totaling more than $26.9 billion.
05.22.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that he would participate in several events to honor the sacrifices of America’s fallen heroes and veterans on Memorial Day Weekend, 2013. “I am proud to return home to Northwest Indiana on Memorial Day each year to honor the heroism, courage, and selflessness of the men and women who have done so much keep our country safe. We owe them a debt of gratitude for the sacrifices they have made for us,” Congressman Visclosky said. Congressman Visclosky’s Memorial Day Weekend Media Availabilities Congressman Pete Visclosky will attend the following events that are open to the media: Sunday, May 26, 2013: 1:00-1:45 PM: Calumet Cemetery Memorial Day Program Congressman Visclosky will deliver brief remarks at a Memorial Day program featuring music played by the Merrillville High School Band. Calumet Park Cemetery 2305 West 73rd Street Merrillville, IN Monday, May 27, 2013: 10:00 AM-10:45 AM: Town of Griffith War Memorial Event Congressman Visclosky will be a guest speaker at an event honoring America’s fallen heroes and veterans in Griffith. Griffith War Memorial Broad and Oak Streets Griffith, IN 11:30 AM-12:30 PM: Hammond Mohawks Memorial Day Program Congressman Visclosky will speak before an event to commemorate American war heroes in Hammond. St. Casimir 4340 Johnson Avenue Hammond, IN 2:30 PM-3:15 AM: Lake County Memorial Day Program Congressman Visclosky will speak before a gathering sponsored by Lake County Parks at the Vietnam Veterans War Memorial in Leroy. Stoney Run County Park 142nd Avenue & Union Street Leroy, IN
05.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – The Science Coalition, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization of more than 50 U.S. research universities that advocate for federal investment in scientific research today honored Congressman Visclosky as a “Champion of Science.” Visclosky was one of 28 Members of Congress to be chosen for the award. “Americans have long recognized the vital role that scientific research and innovation play in fostering economic growth and job creation,” Congressman Visclosky said. “We must not forget that local investments in science and technology development like Purdue University Calumet’s Center on Innovation through Visualization and Simulation have the potential to create not only new jobs, but new businesses and new industries that benefit all of us.” The First Congressional District is also home to the Transportation and Distribution Logistics Center at Ivy Tech, the Purdue Technology Center, and several key regional institutions of higher learning, including Purdue University North Central, Purdue University Calumet, Valparaiso University, and Indiana University Northwest. Visclosky is also a 2011 recipient of the Gerald I. Lamkin Fellow Award for Outstanding Achievement for Innovation & Service, the top individual award of the Society of Innovators.
04.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky has re-introduced the American Steel First Act of 2013, a bill to require the Department of Transportation, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Homeland Security to exclusively use American-made iron and steel in infrastructure projects. “We must reject unfairly-subsidized foreign steel and use American-made materials in taxpayer-financed projects,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am re-introducing the American Steel First Act to send a clear message to American workers: I stand with you and will never stop fighting to give you the tools you need to strengthen our economy.” Visclosky, Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, was joined by Steel Caucus Chairman Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) in support of the measure. Murphy is an original cosponsor of the bill. “Building projects financed with taxpayer dollars must use American-made materials, not foreign,” said Chairman Murphy. “With the nation facing trillions in needed infrastructure development, using domestic top-of-the-line iron and steel produced right here in the United States will not only ensure the highest quality materials are used in the next great American building boom but also will keep all the jobs here at home.” Visclosky has long been a staunch supporter of American steel. He authored a successful Buy America provision that passed as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in 2009 and joined with leaders in both parties in a successful effort to require the Department of Defense to use American-made steel in armor plating. The legislation will be referred to a relevant committee in the House.
04.26.2013	Crown Point, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that he would hold his annual Military Academy Night on Thursday, May 2, 2013, from 6 PM-8 PM at the Purdue Academic Learning Center in Crown Point. Visclosky hosts the event each year for high school students interested in attending a military academy. “Our nation’s military academies give the best and brightest young minds the opportunity to receive a world-class education at no cost to them,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am pleased to host this event each year, as it opens new doors and new possibilities for young Northwest Indiana residents to serve their country.” The event will feature information from all of the nation’s military academies, as well as brief remarks from Visclosky. Students and parents who attend will hear details on academy life, opportunities for academy graduates, and the academy nomination process. The Merrillville JROTC will open the program by bringing in the colors. Attendees can expect to receive information from: United States Military Academy at West Point, New York United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, Connecticut Northwest Indiana families interested in attending this event or seeking more information are encouraged to contact Congressman Visclosky’s Merrillville district office at (219) 795-1844 or visit his website at: https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations.
04.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky congratulated Nathan Kondamuri on his selection to present at the 2013 White House Science Fair on April 22, 2013. Kondamuri, a senior at Munster High School, was inspired by the potential of natural phenomena to affect human health and well-being after floods hit Northwest Indiana several years ago. According to a White House overview of Kondamuri’s research, he sought to find ways to harness the power of nature to provide energy in a more efficient manner to various parts of the world. For three years, he has conducted research on a unique solar cell that creates electricity by mimicking photosynthesis. “As the son of a first generation immigrant, this opportunity was especially exciting for my family and I. My father and grandfather both attended President Obama’s first inaugural, and I know that my grandfather, who passed two years ago, would have been proud,” Kondamuri said. Kondamuri was the only Hoosier selected to participate in the 2013 White House Science Fair. “I am particularly happy to represent Indiana because we don’t always get this kind of recognition like they do in some states like New York or California. We also have great teachers and schools here, and a lot can be accomplished right here in Indiana if you’re willing to put in the work,” Kondamuri added. “I commend Nathan on his outstanding work to improve solar cell technology,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Our country’s future is made brighter by young people like Nathan, who never stop questioning, never stop innovating, and never stop inventing. Northwest Indiana is fortunate to be represented by this young man at the White House Science Fair.” Kondamuri will attend Stanford University next fall, where he says he plans to study chemical engineering and potentially computer science.
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky delivered an opening statement before a hearing of the House Appropriations Committee on Defense this morning. The panel heard testimony from Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin E. Dempsey, and Undersecretary of Defense Robert Hale. Secretary Hagel spoke to the reality that failing to replace sequestration would result in further steep cuts to critical defense priorities in 2014. The Department faces the responsibility of reducing its budget by $41 billion to cope with sequestration. Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for testimony, can be read below: OPENING STATEMENT--PETER J. VISCLOSKY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE HEARING APRIL 16, 2013 Thank you Chairman Young. Secretary Hagel and General Dempsey welcome to today’s hearing. Your testimony is vitally important to the Committee’s deliberations. This is a difficult period for the Department of Defense and for all Federal Departments and agencies. Secretary Hagel, as you take on the responsibilities of Defense Secretary one of your first tasks is coping with sequestration. We note that a significant portion of your prepared testimony is devoted to this problem, and we understand DoD will have to find $41 billion in reductions for this purpose. The Committee recognizes you are about to take a number of painful actions in this regard including: Furloughing most civilian employees for up to 14 days; Curtailing readiness-related training for a large percentage of domestically-based aircraft, and reducing training such as rotations to the National Training Center; and Canceling deployments for a number of Navy ships including the USS Harry S. Truman that was scheduled to deploy in February. Aside of sequestration, we recognize this budget comes at a time of enduring fiscal challenges. The budget protects personnel by including a modest pay raise, increasing housing and subsistence allowances, and requesting $8.5 billion in family related programs. The budget also proposes increased enrollment fees and co-payments in the Defense Health Program. We look forward to working in partnership with you on how to strike a balance between supporting personnel while, at the same time, controlling costs in this segment of the budget. We also note that the procurement and research and development accounts are reduced, and bear much of the burden of meeting fiscal constrains in this request. These reductions are necessary, but we wonder what affect they will have on long-term DoD requirements. As investments in equipment and research decline we are also concerned about the affect this will have on the defense industrial base. We continue to face threats overseas as well. After 12 years of conflict in Afghanistan, we are about to transfer control of security operations to the Afghans and assume a supporting role as US military presence declines. We are interested in your views on whether the Afghans are rising to this challenge, and what military objectives US troops can achieve in the coming years. We are also interested in your assessment of the post-2014 force and the objectives for our troops in that setting. We also face significant challenges in the Asia Pacific region including the threat posed by North Korea. We recognize the budget places a high priority on programs to address this threat and that you are now positioning forces for this purpose. We look forward to your views on how to best respond to the challenges in the Asia-Pacific region. Gentlemen, we thank you for your many years of service, and we look forward to your testimony.
04.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Visclosky voted against H.R. 1120, a legislative attempt to strip the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) of its ability to resolve differences between American business and labor. The bill narrowly passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 219-209. “The National Labor Relations Board plays a vital role by ensuring financial security and economic opportunity for America’s workers and businesses,” Visclosky said. “We must allow it to perform its function in order to create an open, fair, and prosperous economy built on better wages and working conditions for each and every American.” H.R. 1120 would prevent the NLRB from issuing any new decisions, enforcing existing decisions, or advance any rulemaking in preventing and remedying unfair labor practices or defending the right of employees to join a union and bargain collectively with their employers. It would accomplish this aim by denying President Obama’s duly-appointed nominees to the NLRB from taking any action. Visclosky explained that a judicial case regarding the constitutionality of the appointments to the NLRB is already being appealed to the Supreme Court. Passing legislation to deny the NLRB its authority, he argued, is both wrong and unnecessary with judicial action pending. “We should allow the judicial process to proceed before approving legislation that would affect this issue,” Visclosky said. President Obama’s recess appointments to the NLRB are consistent with the more than 300 recess appointments made dating back to the Reagan presidency. Visclosky said that workers and businesses alike rely on the NLRB for the fair enforcement of labor laws, and that denying NLRB officials their authority mandated by federal law would needlessly place American workers at risk.
04.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky issued the following statement on Equal Pay Day 2013, a national day to highlight the wage gap that still exists between women and men in the United States. Visclosky said that Equal Pay Day is a reminder that legislators must work together to secure equal pay for American women. “We must ensure that an honest day’s work results in an honest day’s pay by passing the Paycheck Fairness Act,” Congressman Visclosky said. “This legislation would provide new protections for women who suspect that they are the victims of wage discrimination and hold those employers who violate the law accountable for their actions. It is a commonsense piece of legislation, and it deserves a vote,” Visclosky said. The Paycheck Fairness Act is supported by the National Partnership for Women and Families, National Organization for Women, Coalition of Labor Union Women, AFL-CIO, SEIU, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and YWCA USA, among a number of nationwide organizations. Overview of Key Provisions of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 377; S. 84) For employees, the Paycheck Fairness Act would: Protect employees who voluntarily share their own salary information at work from retaliation by an employer. Remove an inequality in wage discrimination law so remedies available to plaintiffs in Equal Pay Act claims would be the same as damages available to plaintiffs who file wage discrimination claims under other laws, such as for race-based wage discrimination. Remove obstacles in the Equal Pay Act to facilitate plaintiffs’ participation in class action lawsuits that challenge systemic pay discrimination, by making the requirements for class action lawsuits under the Equal Pay Act match those of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Better align key Equal Pay Act defenses with those in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, requiring employers to prove that pay disparities exist for legitimate, job-related reasons. Create a negotiations skills training program for women and girls. For employers, the Paycheck Fairness Act would: Recognize excellence in pay practices. Provide assistance to all businesses to help them with their equal pay practices. For enforcement agencies, the Paycheck Fairness Act would: Instruct the Department of Labor to conduct studies and review available research and data to provide information on how to identify, correct and eliminate illegal wage disparities. Direct the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to reinstate a survey, discontinued under the Bush Administration in 2006, of available wage information to assist federal agencies in enforcing wage discrimination laws and creating a system to collect wage data.
04.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky applauded a decision of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) that restores a rule that stood for 35 years requiring certain types of steel purchased by the U.S. military to be 100% American-made. The rule required certain types of armor plate products to be both melted and finished in the United States. “The Department’s decision represents a major victory for American steel workers and steel producers,” Congressman Visclosky said. “We have a responsibility to keep our fighting men and women safe on the field of battle and ensure that American-made steel is used to protect our troops.” The decision revises the 2009 definition of “produced” steel to include the quenching and tempering of steel armor plate. DoD regulations specify that materials procured for defense, like those used in the construction of tanks, armored vehicles, and other military equipment, must be produced in the United States. As Vice-Chair of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Visclosky has been significantly involved with Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) in urging the DoD to use American-made steel. The two lawmakers joined Members from both parties over multiple years to urge DoD to use American-made steel in its procurements.
03.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky announced his support for the Invest in American Jobs Act of 2013, a bill to close loopholes in existing Buy America provisions and ensure that all federal transportation and infrastructure investments support American jobs and domestic manufacturing. The bill, which was introduced by Congressman Nick Rahall (D-WV), heads to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for consideration. “We have the best workers in the world, the smartest manufacturers in the world, and an economic infrastructure in dire need of repair,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Today, I am urging my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation, which will close Buy America loopholes, strengthen existing Buy America requirements, and ensure that all federal infrastructure projects receive the “Made-in-America” seal of approval.” According to a report of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the legislation would: Strengthen existing Buy America requirements for investments in highway, bridge, public transit, rail, and aviation infrastructure and equipment to ensure that all of the steel, iron, and manufactured goods used in these projects is produced in the United States; Increase domestic content requirements for public transit rolling stock and Federally-procured aviation facilities and equipment, from 60 percent under current law to 100 percent by FY 2017; Apply Buy America requirements to other transportation and infrastructure investment where such requirements do not exist in current law, including rail infrastructure grants, loans, and loan guarantees, Clean Water State Revolving Fund grants, and Economic Development Administration (EDA) grants; and Require Federal agencies to justify any proposed waiver of the Buy America requirements and ensure that the American public has notice of and an opportunity to comment on any proposed waiver prior to it taking effect.
03.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has joined a bipartisan group of legislators in supporting the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2013, a measure designed to crack down on foreign currency manipulators. Visclosky explained that the bill would help to level the playing field for American workers by providing the administration with the ability to combat the artificial devaluation of currency. Visclosky co-sponsored similar legislation with 233 of his colleagues in the 112th Congress. “For Northwest Indiana workers, each and every single day is a fight against foreign nations like China that illegally prop up their industries with artificial currency controls,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I will not stand aside while we welcome illegally-subsidized imports into the country at the expense of American workers. I urge my colleagues to pass this commonsense, bipartisan legislation and send it to the President’s desk without delay.” Currency manipulation policies significantly hamper domestic job creation, allowing foreign countries to export their products at below-market prices. The Peterson Institute for International Economics noted that "half or more of excess U.S. unemployment – the extent to which current joblessness exceeds the full employment level – is attributable to currency manipulation by foreign governments.” The nonpartisan Economic Policy Institute estimates that the U.S. trade deficit with China alone cost over 2.7 million jobs from 2001-2011. The full text of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act is available here.
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – At a hearing of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, Congressman Pete Visclosky submitted testimony on the importance of protecting American steel jobs. In his statement, Visclosky said that he was “determined to see that [steel] remains the backbone of our nation.” He urged his colleagues to stand up for American steel workers, whom he called “the best steel workers in the world.” Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, can be found below: Testimony Congressman Peter J. Visclosky House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Hearing on “Our Nation of Builders: The Strength of Steel” March 21, 2013 I would like to thank Chairman Terry, Ranking Member Schakowsky, and all of the Members of this Subcommittee for showing your commitment to the American steel industry and its workers by holding this hearing today. This is an incredible opportunity to hear directly from representatives from the steel industry, and I deeply appreciate the opportunity to be a part of this process. Steel is the economic backbone of the First Congressional District of Indiana, and I am proud to represent the workers who make this steel every single day. We have the best steel industry and the best steel workers in the world, and it is our responsibility to ensure that we allow them to fully reach their potential, every single day. Just this week, the American Society of Civil Engineers related their updated report card for 2013, and American’s cumulative infrastructure G.P.A is a D+. That is failing in my book. While there are some signs of progress, in the First Congressional District of Indiana we are blowing up bridges instead of building them. The steel industry and all industries demand and deserve the infrastructure necessary to move their products, by road, and rail, and river, and we must do more to make this investment in our country. I appreciate that the current transportation authorization is 27 months, but the last time Congress approved a 5 year transportation authorization bill was in 2005. We must do better. Our steel workers deserve the ability to compete on a fair trading level, which is why I take every opportunity I can to testify before the International Trade Commission in support of our trade laws. While I recognize that trade is not explicitly under the jurisdiction of this subcommittee, I would note my support for legislation through the Ways and Means Committee that is of great importance to American steel. That legislation includes the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which would address the prevalent Chinese currency manipulation, and the Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion Act, sponsored last Congress by Rep. Long. I remain very concerned about duty evasion through our borders, and the actions of the Chinese and other countries that do not adhere to the labor, environmental, and fair trade standards that we exhibit here in our country. We must do more to ensure a level field of competition. On a final note, I would want to express my broader concerns here in support of our domestic manufacturing base. I firmly believe that manufacturing drives innovation. If you stop manufacturing a product in the United States, it is only a matter of time before the engineering and research and development responsible for the product moves overseas. What incentive will there be for our children to become engineers and scientists and researchers in American manufacturing when all of the manufacturing is performed overseas? Some say that green jobs are the way of the future. I say that since 1990 the American steel industry has reduced its use of electricity by 30 percent, and we should ensure that our manufacturing base and the green jobs of the steel industry have our support to lead our economic recovery. Steel has been a part of Northwest Indiana for over a century, and I am determined to see that it remains the backbone of the nation and of the First Congressional District of Indiana for years to come. Again, I thank you for the opportunity to present testimony today, and applaud your initiative and interest in the American steel industry and its workers.
03.07.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that a full slate of Northwest Indiana employers would attend his Jobs and Opportunity Fair to be held on Saturday, March 9, 2013 in the Indiana Hall of the Genesis Center in Gary from 1 PM to 4 PM. The Valparaiso-based Center of Workforce Innovations will attend the event and host a booth to help Northwest Indiana job seekers fine-tune their resumes. The Center announced that it would also host a table with resources for small businesses. In addition to businesses from across Northwest Indiana, the Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair will host various apprenticeship programs in the trades that will help local residents build lasting careers. “Apprenticeship programs give workers the skills they need to have a career earning a livable wage,” Northwest Indiana Building and Construction Trades Business Manager Randy Palmateer said. Mary Lynn Gargas-South, Director of Human Resources for ArcelorMittal USA, explained that the fair would be useful for employers and job applicants alike: “We are pleased to be part of Congressman Visclosky’s Jobs and Opportunity Fair,” Gargas-South said. “We look forward to meeting individuals that are interested in our hourly craft and operations positions as well as salaried supervisors, providing excellent wages, benefits, and career opportunities. Our ideal candidates should not only have the skills required to qualify, but also possess a strong work ethic and important skills including teamwork, independent thinking, problem solving, and the desire to succeed.” “The Jobs and Opportunity Fair will give Northwest Indiana residents the opportunity to connect with a variety of employers throughout the region, as well as polish their job-seeking skills. I encourage all Northwest Indiana residents seeking job opportunities or stronger job-searching skills to attend,” Congressman Visclosky said. Employers Attending the Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair U.S. Steel Lake County Electrical Training Center DeVry University and Keller Graduate School of Management Staff Source Operating Engineers Local 150 Apprenticeship Korellis Roofing, Inc. Peoples Bank ArcelorMittal Indiana Beverage, Inc. Porter-Starke Services, Inc. Heat and Frost Insulators Local 17 J.A.T.C. Horseshoe Casino Hammond Carpenters JATC IU Health – La Porte Hospital Edgewater Systems for Balanced Living Davis Staffing Purdue University North Central Calumet College of St. Joseph Valparaiso University Graduate School Iron Workers Local 395 J.A.T.C. Gary/Chicago International Airport Horizon Bank Indiana Wesleyan University Finishing Trades Institute of District Council 91/IUPAT BP Whiting Refinery Great Lakes Electrical Maintenance, Inc. Pipefitters Local 597 Apprenticeship Roofers Local 26 J.A.T.C. B.A.C. Local 4 IN/KY Apprenticeship Purdue University Calumet Actin Primerica Financial Services Canadian National Railway Company Center of Workforce Innovations (Small Business and Resume Resources)
03.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Peter Visclosky (IN-01) have introduced a four year reauthorization of the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) program. Created in 1999 by the two lawmakers, the bipartisan BVP program provides state, local and tribal law enforcement officers with needed protection by aiding the purchase of protective equipment. The last reauthorization in 2008 expired in October 2012. “The men and women in our local law enforcement play an essential role in safeguarding our communities and protecting the freedoms all of us enjoy. Bulletproof vests and body armor have saved thousands of law enforcement officers. However, they cannot protect the lives of those who do not have access to them,” said LoBiondo. “As protectors of our lives and our property, it is imperative that we give law enforcement the critical tools they need so they may do their jobs and carry out their duties safely and effectively. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership program is one of those critical tools.” "Our families have entrusted the men and women of state and local law enforcement with the responsibility of protecting their lives, their homes, and their property. We must ensure that each and every officer has access to the equipment, training, and support they need as they place their lives on the line for us. Bulletproof vests are crucial, lifesaving tools, and the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program helps local law enforcement agencies acquire them. I am proud to support the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program," said Visclosky. Since 1999, over 13,000 jurisdictions across the country have participated in the BVP program with nearly $300 million in federal funds committed to support the purchase of more than 1 million vests. Additional information on the BVP program can be found at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bvpbasi. The lawmakers’ bipartisan bill, “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2013” (H.R. 988), was introduced on the House floor yesterday. # # #
02.19.2013	Hebron, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that the Hebron Volunteer Fire Department received a grant under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) program. Captain Ross Steffel of the Department explained that the funds would be used to replace old helmets, keeping the Department’s protective equipment up to National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. According to Captain Steffel, the Department expects to replace between 32 and 35 helmets with funds from the grant. Though the Department’s helmets were compliant with NFPA standards, many were up to 10 years old and in need of replacement. “I have witnessed an overall downward trend in firefighter deaths over the past several years, and I believe that the trend can be directly attributed to grants like these, which enable local fire departments to obtain equipment that often protects firefighters’ lives,” said Gregory Cade, former United States Fire Administrator and Director of Government Affairs for NFPA. “We would like to thank Congressman Visclosky and his office for helping to secure this much needed grant for new helmets to protect our men and women of the Hebron Volunteer Fire Department. We congratulate the Department on receiving this, as revenue is tighter and tighter but protecting the people that protect us is an absolute necessity,” Hebron Town Council President Don Ensign said. “When our first responders place their lives on the line, we need to be absolutely certain that they have the finest equipment, training, and support available. Our region’s communities have shown a clear commitment to protecting our firefighters, and I am grateful for their consistent support. I thank the Hebron Volunteer Fire Department and the Town of Hebron for their work to secure this grant,” Congressman Visclosky said.
02.14.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that the City of Gary and the City of Hammond received awards under the FY 2012 Housing Choice Voucher – Family Self-Sufficiency (HCV-FSS) program of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Housing Choice Voucher system helps communities develop strategies to help families obtain employment opportunities. Under the program, public housing agencies work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive program that gives participating FSS family members the skills and expertise needed to find employment. “The City of Hammond is pleased with word that it has received a grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to assist families in need during these difficult economic times,” Mayor McDermott said. “Putting our citizens to work is one of this administration’s top priorities,” said Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. “Thanks to the dollars from this HUD grant, more Gary residents will have the support they need to secure employment and in turn support their families.” “We must connect talented job-seekers with job opportunities here in Northwest Indiana,” said Congressman Visclosky. “HUD grants like these will help to link our workers to the employers that need their services. I commend the City of Gary, Mayor Freeman-Wilson, the City of Hammond, and Mayor McDermott for their efforts to secure these funds.” The award to Gary totals $50,900. The award to Hammond totals $59,418.
02.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – With less than two weeks left until automatic, across-the-board spending cuts of $85 billion take effect, Congressman Visclosky released the following statement urging his colleagues to seize the opportunity to enact a long-term, comprehensive budget solution: “Since August of 2011 – 18 months ago – Congressional leaders knew that sequestration would take place under the Budget Control Act. Time and time again, we had the opportunity to pass a long-term deficit reduction plan that preserved vital investments in national security, infrastructure, technology, research, and workforce development. Instead of passing such a plan, we chose to kick the can at every opportunity. While we must find ways to responsibly reduce federal spending, sequestration is not the answer. I am ready and willing to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to cut spending in a thoughtful and discrete manner,” Congressman Visclosky said. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that sequestration would cut economic growth in 2013 by half, with far-ranging consequences for job growth and small business development. CBO further projected that more than 1.4 million jobs are at stake under sequestration, creating the potential for enough job loss to wipe out half of the gains of 2012. America’s military and border security forces would be deeply impacted by the effects of sequestration. The U.S. Army would reduce training for 78% of its combat formations, while over 55% of U.S. Marine Corps units would have unsatisfactory readiness ratings if sequestration took effect. On border security, the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol would be forced to lay off 5,000 border security agents beginning on April 1, 2013. Congressman Visclosky expressed outrage at the haphazard, dangerous cuts proposed: “The safety and security of the American people should not be bargaining chips in high-stakes budget negotiations,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Instead of mindlessly cutting defense and border security programs that keep Americans safe from harm, we must make thoughtful, deliberate decisions about the country’s fiscal future.” Under sequestration, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers would face cuts totaling $255 million, likely leading to defunding of 65 ongoing construction projects and 43 dredging projects. Congressman Visclosky noted the vital importance of Corps projects in strengthening the economy of Northwest Indiana in his response. “The Corps’ flood control, water management, and transportation infrastructure projects have played a vital role in Northwest Indiana’s economic development, and to throw the Corps’ work on the chopping block without careful consideration is unacceptable,” Congressman Visclosky said. “These cuts will harm our ability to protect ourselves from natural disasters and grow our economy.” Title I Grants to schools, which serve disadvantaged students in predominantly low-income communities, would be cut by more than $750 million, which could lead to a loss of 10,500 teachers and teaching aides. In Indiana alone, nearly $15 million will be cut from Title I. “Sudden, deep cuts to our schools will hurt our economic recovery in the short term and our economic health in the long term,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Our schools should be centers of opportunity for young people throughout Northwest Indiana and across the country.” Visclosky will co-host a “How Would You Balance the Budget?” forum with the nonpartisan Concord Coalition on Monday, March 11, 2013, from 6-8 PM in the Grand Ballroom of the Radisson Star-Plaza. During this free event, participants will work in teams of six, evaluating 40 CBO-scored proposals to balance the federal budget and grow America’s economy. Space is limited for this event; interested participants are encouraged to call (219) 795-1844 or (202) 225-2461 to request a space as soon as possible. “Now, more than ever, we must have an open, honest dialogue about the fiscal challenges our country faces,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am holding this event because I take my constituents’ concerns about the federal debt and deficit very seriously.” For a full report on the impacts of sequestration from the House Appropriations Democrats, click here.
02.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky voted yesterday in support of the Schrader-Cooper-Wolf-Gibson Amendment to the Republican-backed “Require a Plan D Act.” The Amendment recommends that the findings of the Simpson-Bowles Commission, a balanced package of revenue and spending reforms, should form the basis for future budget talks in Washington. The Amendment offered by Rep. Schrader (D-OR) received the support of 53 Democrats and 22 Republicans in the House of Representatives. The Amendment failed, 348-75. “As we enter yet another round of high-stakes budget negotiations, I remind my colleagues of the choice before us: we can either govern by sound bite or govern by making thoughtful, deliberate decisions about the country’s fiscal future,” Congressman Visclosky said following his vote. “It’s tempting to offer plans that do nothing to resolve our debt and deficit challenges and appeal to narrow constituencies, but political grandstanding won’t solve these problems.” Congressman Visclosky plans to host an interactive “How Would You Balance the Federal Budget” event with the Concord Coalition on Monday, March, 11, 2013, from 6-8 PM at the Grand Metropolitan Ballroom of the Radisson in Merrillville. During the event, participants will become mock Members of Congress and work in teams of six, evaluating real federal budget proposals and finding ways to reduce the deficit. “Yesterday’s vote further highlights the importance of this event,” Congressman Visclosky said. “Our current ‘crisis-mode’ fiscal policies neither provide the American people with certainty nor allow for the investments in education, infrastructure, and workforce development that will provide for a prosperous economic future.” Space is limited for this event, so interested participants are encouraged to contact (202) 225-2461 or (219) 795-1844 to request space as soon as possible.
02.07.2013	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that Valparaiso University received a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) programs. The grant from NSF will support the Valparaiso Experience in Research by Undergraduate Mathematicians (VERUM). VERUM selects undergraduates each year to work for nine weeks on open problems in applied and theoretical mathematics. In each project, the participants will investigate questions of interest to the broader mathematical community. Dr. Lara Pudwell, Associate Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Valparaiso, explained that the VERUM program is often the first research opportunity for students to engage in mathematical research. “Over the course of the summer, they will hone research and communication skills that help them prepare for graduate school in the mathematical sciences and future careers in STEM disciplines,” Dr. Pudwell said. “We must invest in a well-trained workforce to protect the jobs of today and create the jobs of tomorrow,” Congressman Visclosky said. “STEM workers will attract new businesses to our region and help make our local industries more efficient.” Valparaiso University will join nine other local colleges and universities for the Visclosky Financial Aid and Opportunity Night on Thursday, February 21, 2013, from 6-8 PM at the Gary Area Career Center. At the event, Congressman Visclosky, Mayor Freeman-Wilson, Dr. Pruitt of the Gary Community Schools Corporation, and Richard Blasen of the U.S. Department of Education will deliver presentations on financial aid resources to attendees, and local college booths will offer resources to students and parents in attendance. The event is free and open to the public.
02.06.2013	East Chicago, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that the East Chicago Fire Department (ECFD) received a grant under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Since 2001, the AFG program has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first-responder organizations throughout the country. The grants assist police, fire, and emergency medical services seeking to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, training, and firefighting or emergency vehicles. In Fiscal Year 2012 alone, the AFG program will award approximately $337.5 million directly to fire departments and non-affiliated EMS organizations to enhance their response capabilities and more effectively protect the health and safety of the public. The grant awarded to ECFD will be used to replace a number of the Department’s radios. East Chicago Fire Chief Emiliano Perez noted that the funds came at a critical time for ECFD. “This award was a godsend,” Chief Perez said. “Like so many first response organizations, we are facing financial constraints that impact the manner in which we operate. At a time when we need to protect our firefighters, we could not be more thankful for a Congressman who looks out for our interests in Washington.” East Chicago Mayor Anthony Copeland stated, “This grant will allow us to replace aging radios, which are a firefighter’s lifeline. With this much-needed assistance from the Department of Homeland Security to the firefighters’ program, the lifeline of a radio will continue to go unbroken and save lives.” “Our firefighters must have every available resource to keep Northwest Indiana families safe,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I am proud to help them, and thankful for their brave service. I thank Chief Perez, the East Chicago Fire Department, the City of East Chicago, and Mayor Copeland for their efforts to secure this grant.”
02.05.2013	Gary, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that he would join Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson, Dr. Cheryl Pruitt of the Gary Schools Corporation, and the U.S. Department of Education as well as ten local colleges and universities for an event to highlight financial aid resources offered by the federal government. The event will be held in Gary on Thursday, February 21, 2013 from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM. The evening’s program will feature a presentation from Richard Blasen of the U.S. Department of Education. Mr. Blasen explained that he will discuss the availability of federal financial aid programs, including federal grants, federal work study, and federal student loans. Currently, over $150 billion in federal funds is available to help American students pay for a college education. “It’s very important that families understand that FAFSA.gov is the official website to apply for Federal Student Aid” said Mr. Blasen. “In addition, we encourage families to visit StudentAid.gov to learn more about the federal financial aid process, scholarships, as well as how to apply for aid.” “I want to thank Congressman Visclosky for hosting the Student Loan and Opportunity Night,” said Gary Community Schools Corporation Superintendent Dr. Cheryl Pruitt. “These are the types of events that will help college-bound students go on to do great things in higher education and beyond. We’re encouraging them to attend and ask questions about the financial aid process, deadlines, and scholarship opportunities.” “Events like these create more opportunities for our youth to extend their education and expand their horizons,” said Mayor Freeman Wilson. “We thank Congressman Visclosky for his effort, and it is my hope that our Gary youth will benefit from these resources, go to college and then come home to work where we have positions waiting for them.” “For Indiana to succeed economically, education has to be more than just K through 12 learning, it needs to be about lifelong learning,” said Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction Glenda Ritz. “I urge any current high school student, parent of a student, or high school graduate that wants to go to college to attend the Financial Aid and Opportunity Night.” “I am pleased to welcome local students to the Financial Aid and Opportunity Night,” Congressman Visclosky said. “A college education is a vital step on the road to a secure, prosperous, and lasting career for many of Northwest Indiana’s young people. I thank Mayor Freeman-Wilson, Dr. Pruitt, the U.S. Department of Education, and Superintendent Ritz for their contributions to this important and informative event.” Colleges and Universities Attending the Financial Aid and Opportunity Night Calumet College of St. Joseph DeVry University – School of Management Ivy Tech Indiana University Northwest Kaplan College Purdue University Calumet Purdue University North Central Saint Joseph’s College South Suburban College Valparaiso University Visclosky College Financial Aid and Opportunity Night With Mayor Freeman Wilson, Dr. Pruitt, and the U.S. Department of Education Thursday, February 21 6:00 PM – 8:00 PM (all times CST) Gary Area Career Center 1800 East 35th Avenue Gary, IN
01.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky announced two events that will be held in Indiana’s First Congressional District in March, 2013: Visclosky Job Fair The Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair will be held on Saturday, March 9, 2013 at the Indiana Hall of the Genesis Convention Center in Gary. Featured participants will include the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA) and contractors who serve the RDA. Job-seekers visiting the Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair will have the opportunity to meet one-on-one with local businesses and other organizations seeking qualified individuals. “I am very excited to host the Jobs and Opportunity Fair,” Congressman Visclosky said. “This is an excellent opportunity to help the people of Northwest Indiana find new job opportunities and strengthen their resumes. I encourage all those seeking new employment, better employment, or a stronger resume to attend the Jobs and Opportunity Fair.” The Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity fair will be held on Saturday, March 9th in the Indiana Hall of the Genesis Convention Center. A full list of participating organizations will be available in February. Space is limited, so employers interested in participating in the Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair are encouraged to contact Director of Projects and Planning Elizabeth Johnson at (219) 795-1844 to reserve their space as soon as possible. Visclosky Jobs and Opportunity Fair Saturday, March 9 1:00 PM – 4:00 PM (all times CST) Indiana Hall, Genesis Convention Center Gary, IN Visclosky “How Would YOU Balance the Budget?” Event Two days later, on Monday, March 11, 2013, Congressman Visclosky will join representatives of the Concord Coalition, a nonprofit advocacy organization dedicated to bipartisan fiscal solutions for a unique, interactive event challenging constituents to balance the federal budget at the Grand Metropolitan Ballroom of the Radisson in Merrillville. During the interactive event, constituents will work in teams of five to seven using real Congressional Budget Office numbers and real proposals advanced by Members of Congress to construct a mock federal budget plan and work out solutions to the national debt. At the conclusion of the program, Congressman Visclosky will host a brief question and answer session to hear how constituents viewed the event. “Now more than ever, it’s vital that citizens get involved with federal budget issues,” said Phil Smith, National Political Director of the Concord Coalition. “There are no easy answers. There are no silver bullet solutions. This exercise will allow Indiana constituents to roll up their sleeves and work hand in hand with their Congressman so that he can hear directly from them.” “Our country needs a strategic plan for our long-term fiscal challenges. This exercise gives citizens a chance to assemble their own plan, to prioritize and make their own recommendations directly to Congressman Visclosky,” Smith added. “The timing for this event was just right,” Congressman Visclosky said. “The vote on the fiscal legislation at the start of the year left so many of our deepest tax and spending issues unresolved. The next generation of Northwest Indiana families deserves better than a Congress that uses short-term fiscal band-aids to patch over the real issues we face. I hope that this event will demonstrate not only how complex our fiscal issues are, but also that they can be solved. All it takes is for us to make difficult choices, set long-term priorities, and above all else, work together.” Constituents who wish to attend Congressman Visclosky’s “How Would YOU Balance the Budget” event must RSVP before Friday, March 8, 2013 by calling either the Merrillville office at (219) 795-1844 or the Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-2461. The Visclosky “How Would YOU Balance the Budget” Event will be held on Monday, March 11, 2013 in the Grand Metropolitan Ballroom of the Radisson in Merrillville. Members of the local press who wish to attend this event must contact Visclosky Director of Communications Phil LaRue at (202) 225-2461 by Friday, March 1, 2013 to secure press passes. Visclosky “How Would YOU Balance the Budget?” Event Monday, March 11, 2013 6:00 PM – 8:00 PM (all times CST) – Doors open at 5:30 PM Grand Metropolitan Ballroom, Radisson Hotel at Star Plaza Merrillville, IN
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today to argue for passage of the Hurricane Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Act to help areas affected by Hurricane Sandy recover from the storm. In his floor remarks, Visclosky noted that in every year since 1997, with just two exceptions, Congress has recognized the need for funds to help communities respond to natural disasters impacting America’s water infrastructure. He also argued that the funds contained in the amendment offered by Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) would allow communities in New York and New Jersey to repair federal facilities and lower the risks of future flooding. “Whether it is the communities beside the Little Calumet River or those on the Atlantic Seaboard, our families deserve to know that the federal government will stand beside them with funds for flood relief in their hour of need,” Visclosky said following the floor remarks. “As a resident of a region that has seen its share of the painful impact of flooding, I am proud to stand in support of aid for families that were in the path of Hurricane Sandy.” The full text of Congressman Visclosky’s remarks can be read below: Statement of Peter Visclosky Floor Consideration: Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Act January 15, 2013 Mr. Chairman: I rise today to express my support for the underlying bill and the Frelinghuysen Amendment, which will greatly assist the States and communities affected by Hurricane Sandy in their efforts to recover and rebuild. I truly appreciate the effort that Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and the Committee staff have put forth in bringing these measures to the House floor. Communities devastated by natural disasters deserve our full support. In every year since 1997, with two exceptions, the Congress has recognized the need for emergency funds to respond to the impacts of natural disasters on the nation’s water resource infrastructure. This year should be no different. The Frelinghuysen Amendment includes a total of $5.35 billion for the Corps of Engineers to respond to the historic destruction we’ve seen as the result of Sandy. Of that, about $1.8 billion will be used to repair existing federal facilities that were damaged in the storm and to restore projects to design standards. The roughly $3.4 billion remaining will be used by the Corps for the construction of projects intended to reduce future flood risk. Additionally, the Frelinghuysen Amendment provides $88.3 million to repair facility and equipment damage to Department of Defense facilities in several states along the Eastern Seaboard. While, there are those that may take issue with the $3.4 billion included in the Frelinghuysen amendment for the Corps Construction account, I think the argument that these funds are not warranted rings hollow. This is what we should be doing as a nation – it is far less expensive to prevent damages than it is to clean up after them. We need to take the lessons of Katrina, Rita, and Irene, to name a few, to heart and fund projects that result in the long-term sustainability of the impacted communities and reduce the economic costs and risks associated with future disasters. I recognize that there is a larger ongoing discussion regarding the long-term trajectory of taxes and spending in this nation. However, as we continue this discussion, we cannot forgo actions necessary for the security and safety of our citizens. Our country has provided billions in infrastructure funding on an emergency basis for dams, schools, and roads in Iraq and Afghanistan. We certainly can do no less for our own citizens in our own country. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
01.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission in support of local manufacturing for the first time in the 113th Congress. Visclosky asked the Commission to maintain trade protections against corrosion-resistant flat products from Germany and South Korea. As Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Visclosky frequently testifies before the Commission on issues important to the preservation of Northwest Indiana’s steel industry. Visclosky appeared before the Commission five times in the 112th Congress, and made his first appearance of the 113th Congress less than a week after it convened. Visclosky argued that weak demand from German and South Korean steel mills could lead to a flood of cheaply-priced, illegal imports in the American market, placing American workers at a significant disadvantage. “This would have disastrous consequences for American steel companies and their workers,” Visclosky said. Following the hearing, Visclosky said, “We must fight for every single American job in this economy. By showing zero tolerance for illegal trade practices, we will give our manufacturers the ability to compete in the global market and protect good-paying jobs, which will put the economy of Northwest Indiana and the nation as a whole on the road to a secure, prosperous, and bright future.” A copy of Visclosky’s full remarks can be found below: Testimony Congressman Peter J. Visclosky International Trade Commission Hearing on Corrosion-Resistant Carbon Steel Flat Products from Germany and Korea January 9, 2013 I would like to thank Chairman Williamson and all of the members of the Commission for holding the hearing today on anti-dumping orders on corrosion-resistant steel flat products from Germany and South Korea, and on a countervailing duty order on corrosion-resistant steel flat products from South Korea. As always, I am very thankful for the opportunity to stand before you today and provide testimony on this incredibly important case. As you are well aware, I testify before you on cases in my capacity as the Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, as the case involves the protection of trade laws that impact the strength and survival of our entire domestic steel industry. I also testify before you in my capacity as the Representative from the First Congressional District of Indiana when the case involves the production of products that are made by steelworkers in Northwest Indiana. Today, I am here in both capacities. First, as a representative from the Congressional Steel Caucus, I present to you this letter, signed by Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus Tim Murphy, myself, and 19 other Members of the Caucus. I ask that you include this letter as part of the official comments for today’s hearing. This letter documents how it is essential that we preserve the current orders in place so that American steelworkers can fairly compete in the world economy. Specifically, the letter explains that in the first three quarters of 2012, imports of corrosion-resistant steel from Germany and South Korea totaled 360,908 net tons, which is 30 percent higher than the same period in 2011. In Europe, German mills face exceedingly weak demand, as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development recently projected that real gross domestic product in the Eurozone will fall by 0.1 percent next year, and in Asia, South Korean mills face ever intense competition from China, whose production of coated sheet steel products rose by almost 53 percent from 2009 to 2011. It is clear that Germany and South Korea face exceedingly weak demand, and the revocation of these orders will lead to a new surge of illegal imports from these countries. This would have disastrous consequences for American steel companies and their workers. Second, as the Representative from the First Congressional District of Indiana, I want to express the views of my constituents who assemble corrosion-resistant steel flat products in Northwest Indiana. I leave for Northwest Indiana this afternoon, and I will spend the next three days holding Town Forums in various towns and cities throughout the region. I will stress to residents during these Forums that we must fight for every American job and do everything we can to provide certainty to American families in this recovering economy. While that process involves state and local officials, labor groups, private businesses, and non-profit organizations in Northwest Indiana, it also involves you and the work of this Commission. Our economy is just beginning to regain its footing, and we cannot allow a new surge of imports from the revocation of these orders to wipe away the hard-fought progress we have made toward economic security, growth, and job creation. As always, I thank you for your efforts and for your fair and deliberate consideration of this case, and I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony before you today.
01.04.2013	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that he will attend and speak at Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson’s Job Compliance Forum next week. The forum is intended to discuss compliance guidelines for local, state, and federal projects taking place in Gary and explain how Gary residents can be considered for jobs on those projects. In addition to Mayor Freeman-Wilson and Congressman Visclosky, representatives from compliance and other City of Gary departments will attend the forum. “This forum is meant to educate the public on how compliance works,” said Mayor Freeman-Wilson. “We want Gary residents to be considered for employment on the major projects that are coming to our city, and we want them to be prepared. This forum is one of several ways that we intend to keep citizens informed and trained for these job opportunities.” Congressman Visclosky said of the forum, “Now, more than ever, we need to create good-paying jobs for Northwest Indiana residents. I am pleased to take part in this forum, which will map out compliance guidelines for projects funded by public dollars and help local residents understand the requirements they must follow. Such dialogue will not only make government more efficient, but will help to ensure that Northwest Indiana tax dollars create Northwest Indiana jobs.” Wednesday, January 9, 2013: 5:30 PM-6:00 PM: Mayor’s Job Compliance Forum with Rep. ViscloskyCongressman Visclosky will attend and deliver welcoming remarks at a job compliance forum in the City of Gary. Representatives from government agencies and employers will be in attendance to participate in the Q & A portion of the forum. Genesis Convention Center, One Genesis Center Plaza Gary, IN
01.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced his support for Congressman John Lewis’ (D-GA) Voter Empowerment Act, a bill to modernize America’s voter registration system, protect equal access to the ballot box, and eliminate barriers to any American’s right to vote. The bill, which received the support of 141 cosponsors in the 112th Congress, would reaffirm the principle that every man and woman of legal age has an equal right to register to vote and cast a ballot without fear of discrimination based on race, sex, or age. “No right is more fundamental to the continuation of a democracy than the right to vote. I am proud to stand with Congressman Lewis and all those who are fighting to strengthen every American’s right to vote,” Congressman Visclosky said of the proposed legislation. The Voter Empowerment Act was introduced on the first day of the 113th Congress. Highlights of the Voter Empowerment Act: Building A 21st Century Voter Registration System The Act would make use of the latest technology to automatically and permanently enroll all consenting eligible voters, update changes in address or name, and include built-in fail-safe measures to correct problems and protect personal privacy. Allowing Same-Day Registration The Act would ensure that no voter is turned away from the polls on Election Day by allowing same-day registration, which already exists in ten states. Assisting Voters With Disabilities A disability should never serve as a barrier to the ballot box. The Voter Empowerment Act would help alleviate any additional burdens for people with disabilities by providing additional tools to vote.
12.19.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that Valparaiso-based HealthLinc, Inc., has received a grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to obtain a new mobile school-based health center (MSBHC) that will serve young people throughout Northwest Indiana. According to HealthLinc, the new MSBHC will enhance medical and dental capabilities for the delivery of primary medical services and screenings, as well as dental and mental health services. HealthLinc cited statistics showing that only 46-85 percent of Indiana children receive needed vaccinations due to financial and non-financial barriers in its grant request to HRSA. The organization will use the MSBHC for site-delivered health services that will reduce these burdens on families and schools. CEO of HealthLinc Beth Wrobel said, “HealthLinc believes in providing a health care home to those who need one in a manner and place that is accessible. This grant will allow us to provide much needed medical, behavioral health, and dental care to school children, their families and the communities we serve by bringing it directly to them. We appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s support in making our dream become a reality.” HealthLinc will work with various institutions of higher education, including Ivy Tech Community College, Indiana University Northwest Health Sciences Division, Indiana University School of Dentistry and Purdue University-North Central to provide an experiential opportunity for health science students through the MSBHC. They will partner with Porter Starke Services, Swanson Center and Oak Lawn Community Mental Health Centers to provide integrated behavioral health services. Congressman Visclosky commended HealthLinc’s efforts to obtain the MSBHC, saying, “The physical and mental health of Northwest Indiana children must be our top priority. With a mobile health center for our schools, we will be one step closer to the day when no child will have to walk through the doors of a classroom without access to the care they deserve. I thank Beth Wrobel and all of the dedicated staff of HealthLinc for their work to give our children a healthy start.” The grant award totals $500,000.
12.14.2012	Washington, D.C. — Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Vice-Chairman Rep. Peter Visclosky (IN-01) today released the below letter urging Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to clarify the Navy’s future shipbuilding plans. Murphy and Visclosky wrote that certainty regarding the Navy’s long-term acquisition strategy would help the nation’s steelmakers, which are key players in the defense industrial base, grow and create jobs. “Our Navy’s ability to protect our shores and promote global peace depends on a robust domestic steel industry capable of producing the millions of tons needed by all branches of the Armed Forces,” said Congressman Tim Murphy.“And with nearly one million American jobs tied to steelmaking, the Department of Defense must act swiftly to give manufacturers the certainty and stability necessary to plan and grow in this economy.” “As our economy continues to emerge from recession, America’s steelworkers and their families deserve to have the certainty that they are trusted to build the finest warships in the world,” said Congressman Peter Visclosky. “I urge Secretary Panetta to remember the crucial relationship between the steel industry and the United States Navy as he develops our long-term shipbuilding strategy.” The full letter can be read below. December 10, 2012 The Honorable Leon Panetta Secretary Department of Defense The Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 Dear Secretary Panetta: We write today as Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus to stress the critical relationship between our naval industrial base and the domestic steel industry. A strong and powerful navy is crucial to protect our nation, maintain global security, and secure maritime trading routes. The defense industrial base relies on a steel industry capable of rapid production of millions of metric tons used in building and maintaining America’s navy. Since the production of steel is both labor and capital intensive, steelmakers must have certainty and predictability. Therefore, we urge you to maintain stability in planning as you consider future shipbuilding acquisition proposals. Our naval shipbuilding base must have access to the highest-quality, American-made steel. The production of one aircraft carrier, which generates more than $3 billion of economic activity and supports thousands of manufacturing jobs, requires $265 million worth of American steel. A healthy domestic steel sector is not only critical to national security, but also our nation’s economy. From steelworkers to coal miners to machinists and fabricators, the steel supply chain supports over 930,000 American jobs and contributes $17.5 billion to our gross domestic product. Thousands of towns and communities across the United States are dependent on the success of steelmaking, which in turn is reliant on a predictable and stable defense acquisition. We thank you in advance for keeping those factors in mind as you develop the Navy’s long-term shipbuilding strategy. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Murphy Rep. Peter J. Visclosky Chairman Vice Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus Congressional Steel Caucus
12.13.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky today announced that he will be holding 21 Town Forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District in January. Visclosky hosts the Forums each year to give constituents an opportunity to ask questions and to provide an update on the issues facing the region and the country. “Northwest Indiana and the country are faced with many important issues right now, including creating good-paying jobs, balancing the federal budget, and ending the war in Afghanistan. As 2012 turns to 2013 and a new session of Congress begins, I want to hear from my constituents on the issues that matter most to them.” In addition to locations throughout Lake and Porter Counties, Visclosky has scheduled Town Forums in the areas of LaPorte County that will join the First Congressional District in January. “I am humbled to serve the areas of LaPorte County now included in the First Congressional District, eager to learn their residents’ priorities, and honored to share my vision for the economic future of Northwest Indiana with them,” Visclosky said. As in previous years, local students will lead the Pledge of Allegiance and introduce Visclosky to their communities. Each student will give a brief speech on the history and economy of the First Congressional District to welcome Visclosky. “Our bright young people today are our leaders tomorrow,” Visclosky said. “I thank each of them for participating in these important events.” Congressman Visclosky’s 2013 Town Forum Schedule: Thursday, January 10, 2013 10:00 a.m. CST – Hebron: Hebron Public Library, 201 West Sigler Street, Hebron, Indiana 46341 12:00 p.m. CST – Lowell: Lowell Town Hall, 501 East Main Street, Lowell, Indiana 46356 2:00 p.m. CST – Griffith: Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street, Griffith Indiana 46319 4:00 p.m. CST – Hammond-North: Hammond Public Library – Main Library, 564 State Street, Hammond, Indiana 46320 6:00 p.m. CST – Whiting: Whiting Public Library, 1735 Oliver Street, Whiting, Indiana 46394 Friday, January 11, 2013: 10:00 a.m. CST – Munster: Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road, Munster, Indiana 46321 12:00 p.m. CST – Crown Point: Crown Point Public Library, 122 North Main Street, Crown Point, Indiana 46307 2:00 p.m. CST – Portage: Portage Public Library, 2665 Irving Street, Portage, Indiana 46368 4:00 p.m. CST – Chesterton: Westchester Public Library, 100 West Indiana Avenue, Chesterton, Indiana 46304 6:00 p.m. CST – Valparaiso: Valparaiso City Hall, 166 Lincolnway, Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 Note: an interpreter for the deaf will be present. Saturday, January 12, 2013: 10:00 a.m. CST – Highland: Wicker Park Clubhouse, 2000 Ridge Road, Highland, Indiana 46322 12:00 p.m. CST – Gary: Gary YWCA, 150 West 15th Avenue, Gary, Indiana 46407 2:00 p.m. CST – Hobart: Hobart City Hall, 414 Main Street, Hobart, Indiana 46342 4:00 p.m. CST – East Chicago: American Legion Post 369, 1401 West Chicago Avenue, East Chicago, Indiana 46312 6:00 p.m. CST – Hammond-South: Purdue University Calumet, Student Union Library Building Room with the View, 2200 169th Street, Hammond, Indiana 46323 Thursday, January 17, 2013: 12:00 p.m. CST – Tri-Town: St. John Public Library, 9450 Wicker Avenue, St. John, Indiana 46373 2:00 p.m. CST – Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall, 1969 Central Avenue, Lake Station, Indiana 46405 4:00 p.m. CST – Westville: Purdue University North Central, Library-Student-Faculty Building, 1401 South U.S. 421, Westville, Indiana 46391 6:00 p.m. CST – Michigan City: Michigan City – City Hall Council Chambers, 100 East Michigan Boulevard, Michigan City, Indiana 46360 Friday, January 18, 2013: 10:00 a.m. CST – Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway, Merrillville, Indiana 46410 Note: an interpreter for the deaf will be present. 12:30 p.m. CST – Gary: Gary Public Library – Woodson Branch, 501 South Lake Street, Gary Indiana 46403
11.26.2012	Washington, D.C. – In celebration of the 170th Anniversary of the founding of the University of Notre Dame, Congressman Visclosky signed his name in the Congressional Record alongside a speech submitted on behalf of the Indiana delegation by Congressman Joe Donnelly. The University of Notre Dame was founded in South Bend, Indiana, on November 26, 1842. Congressman Visclosky, a graduate of the University, released the following statement in commemoration of the anniversary: “When Father Edward Sorin founded the University of Notre Dame, he declared that it ‘will be one of the most powerful means for doing good in this country.’ The fulfillment of his vision can be seen today in the efforts of a student body from all 50 states and over 100 countries. Their educational, cultural, philanthropic, and athletic contributions to our country cannot be overstated. I remain proud to be a graduate of a university so dedicated to the principles of service and justice.” ###
11.09.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky marked the arrival of this year’s Veterans Day by participating in events in East Chicago, Hammond, Hebron, and Merrillville. On Sunday, November 10th, Congressman Visclosky will deliver remarks to the City of East Chicago Veterans Day event and the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 7881 Veterans Day event in Hammond. He will speak with students at Hebron Middle and High School’s Veterans Day program and speak at the Town of Merrillville’s Veterans Day program. American Legion First District Commander Gail Galich noted the importance of maintaining a commitment to American veterans every day of the year. Commander Galich echoed the words of American Legion National Commander James E. Koutz by reminding us that “Every day is Veterans Day.” Congressman Visclosky Statement on Veterans’ Day 2012: “A grateful region pauses today in observance of the service, sacrifice, and heroism of nearly half a million Indiana veterans. A grateful nation pauses today in observance of the millions of American veterans nationwide, without whom we would not have the rights and freedoms we enjoy today. To the men and women of our armed forces and their families: we pledge to honor your efforts not simply with our words, but with our actions. We will fight for your benefits, your healthcare, and your ability to get a good job when you return home. We will not relent in our efforts to ensure that you return to a warm welcome. To the families of those missing in action and those taken prisoner: we earnestly hope that you will soon be reunited with your loved ones, and we spend each day awaiting their return. To the families of those now laid to rest: we know that nothing can console the pain of your loss, but we strengthen our resolve to ensure that your loved ones will not have died in vain. Our nation supports our troops. I believe that our best hope to honor the tireless efforts of our troops is to bring them home. I again urge our leaders to return our troops from Afghanistan without delay and focus on nation building here in America.” How Congressman Visclosky is Working for Our Veterans: In recent sessions of Congress, Congressman Visclosky has joined his colleagues in support of the following efforts to protect America’s veterans: Enacted the new Post 9-11 GI Bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education, that has already allowed over 700,000 veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars to afford college, just like after World War II, along with tax incentives for hiring to expand job opportunities for returning soldiers. Strengthened health care for more than 5 million veterans, with a historic commitment -- including the largest single increase in the history of the VA -- for more doctors and nurses, better access for rural veterans, and expanded efforts to treat the signature injuries of the war, PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury, while enacting a law to guarantee timely and predictable funding for veterans’ health care and to address the health care needs of our nearly 2 million female veterans. Strengthened support for military families, building more military child care centers and better military family housing, and enacting landmark legislation to provide much-needed support for family members and other caregivers for wounded veterans.
11.01.2012	Washington, D.C. — Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus are urging the U.S. Department of Commerce to enforce a 2010 trade ruling that bans China from dumping subsidized steel pipe used in oil and gas drilling onto the American market. Steel Caucus Chairman Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Vice-Chairman Rep. Peter Visclosky (IN-01) released the below letter urging Acting Secretary Rebecca Blank to protect American steel jobs, which are severely harmed by China’s subsidized goods. The letter was signed by 20 Republican and Democratic lawmakers. The full text of the letter can be read below. “Time and again, China continues to violate long-standing trade agreements, resulting in a devastating loss of American jobs that puts our manufacturing sector at risk,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. “With thousands of Southwestern Pennsylvanians relying on steel and manufacturing to provide for their families, we cannot tolerate blatant disregard of our international contracts. I urge Acting Secretary Blank to stand up for our economy by taking immediate action to curb China’s illegal practices.” “We must send the message that we will fight for our workers and face down countries with manipulative, unfair, and illegal trade policies,” said Congressman Peter Visclosky. “I stand firm with my colleagues in urging the International Trade Commission to stop foreign nations from stealing American jobs and stifling economic growth.”Background: In 2009, the U.S. Department of Commerce found that China was unfairly subsidizing oil drill pipe (commonly called ‘oil country tubular goods’ abbreviated OCTG) at rates ranging from 11 to 31 percent. The International Trade Commission applied duties that were instrumental in saving the domestic pipe industry. Subsidized imports from China fell dramatically, in turn benefitting American manufacturers, but now Chinese mills are producing pipe and sending it to an intermediary country for minor modifications to evade duties. The US industry has seen significant increases of steel pipe from Vietnam, Indonesia, and Thailand that was originally made in China. Duty evasion violates the law and the specific order, which is why Reps. Murphy and Visclosky are sending a letter to the Commerce Department urging them to get tough with enforcement. During the past session of Congress, Murphy has testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission in support of penalties against dumped and subsidized steel coming from Korea, Mexico, and China. Murphy also co-authored bipartisan legislation (HR 639, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act) that levels the playing field for manufacturers and steelmakers who struggle to compete with China’s illegal currency manipulation, which often results in Chinese exporters receiving a 20-40 price advantage against US-made products. For more information, including a list of members who have signed onto the letter, click here. Copy of the Steel Caucus Letter: The Honorable Rebecca M. Blank Acting Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Blank: We write to express our continued support for strong enforcement of the antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing duty (“CVD”) orders on oil country tubular goods (“OCTG”) from China, and urge you to take specific steps to prevent evasion of these orders through minor processing in third-party countries. These orders, which went into effect in 2010, have provided much needed relief for the U.S. industry and the thousands of American workers who were being harmed by a flood of billions of dollars of dumped and subsidized Chinese OCTG. Unfortunately, since they were first put in place, these orders have faced a constant barrage of attempts to weaken their effectiveness by evasion, circumvention, and more subtle — but just as damaging—narrowing the scope of products covered by the orders. If allowed to succeed, these attempts will have the disastrous consequence of enabling Chinese producers and exporters to continue to ship dumped and subsidized Chinese OCTG to the United States without paying the legally-required AD and CVD duties, causing further injury to U.S. jobs and businesses. The Department of Commerce should not permit the AD and CVD orders on OCTG from China to be weakened in this way. The orders must be effectively enforced against the full range of covered OCTG products. Of particular importance, the Department should make clear that –consistent with the plain language and original intent of the orders – minor processing of OCTG from China in other countries (such as through heat treatment or other finishing operations) does not change the underlying country of origin. It is insufficient to exempt such OCTG from the scope of the orders. Only by those actions, and by emphasizing that attempts to weaken orders will not be tolerated, can the Department uphold the effectiveness of the orders, the integrity of the statute, and congressional intent. Thank you for your consideration and your continued efforts to ensure that the U.S. OCTG industry and American workers receive the relief from China’s unfair trade practices that they have fought so hard to achieve. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.
10.31.2012	East Chicago, IN – Congressman Visclosky joined local officials and representatives from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to commemorate the start of the dredging of the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal on Monday, October 29th. The Indiana Harbor Ship Canal is a federal navigable waterway, maintained by USACE and last dredged in 1972. The current dredging will take the current channel from approximately 20 feet to 27 feet deep and remove an estimated 1.8 million cubic yards of sediments, allowing cargo ships moving through the canal easier passage. East Chicago Mayor Anthony Copeland said of the dredging, “After many years of study, deliberation, and controversy, we are finally crossing an important milestone as the dredging of the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal begins. With all the unknowns, we find that the past must be dredged to provide a better future for our community. While this contamination may not have occurred on our watch, the time has come for us to clean it in the safest and most expedient manner possible.” “The last time this East Chicago waterway was dredged was in 1972,” Executive Director Fernando Trevino, East Chicago Waterway Management District, said, speaking to USACE. “The dredging project will certainly improve our local economy and help clean our waterways, and the East Chicago Waterway Management District is proud to be part of the diverse and hard working team that's making this happen.” Northwest Indiana Forum, Inc. CEO and President Mark Maassel added that the dredging was a successful example of local public-private partnerships accomplishing shared goals. Mr. Maassel said, “This dredging is another example of businesses and the government partnering to safely accomplish needed work, which will both enhance the environment and improve the economy in Northwest Indiana.” "We're eager to start dredging here at Indiana Harbor and Canal," USACE District Engineer Col. Frederic Drummond Jr. said. "This harbor hasn't been dredged since 1972, but thanks to a truly collaborative effort involving federal, state and local government, private industry, and members of the local community we are ready to get dredging underway and begin to safely remove and contain the thousands of yards of polluted sediment from this harbor and canal. This project will not only restore navigation but will improve water quality in southern Lake Michigan." Congressman Visclosky said, “Northwest Indiana is in a prime position to serve as a hub for commercial shipping operations, and the dredging of the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal will improve our ability to perform this function. With a more efficient Ship Canal, we will be able to entice new businesses to come to our region and make the most of the jobs we already have. Additionally, we will be able to reduce the migration of sediments into Lake Michigan, protecting an essential body of freshwater. I thank Mayor Anthony Copeland, the City of East Chicago, the East Chicago Waterway Management District, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for maintaining the vision and the focus necessary to bring this worthwhile project to life.” ####
10.18.2012	Washington, D.C. — Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus are urging the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to approve antidumping and countervailing duties on standard steel pipe from four foreign nations. Steel Caucus Chairman Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Vice-Chairman Rep. Peter Visclosky (IN-01) released the below letter urging the ITC to enforce global trade rules, and stop a surge of unfairly traded imports that can lead to domestic steel pipe makers shutting down production and laying off workers. The letter was signed by 22 Republican and Democratic lawmakers. “Despite boasting the most efficient steel industry in the world, America can’t compete when foreign countries cheat on trade,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. “By subsidizing their industry and selling pipe at below-market prices, foreign governments are putting Americans out of work and holding back our economy. I urge the International Trade Commission to apply these penalties and uphold the integrity of our international trade agreements.” “All over the country, our world-class workforce in steel and manufacturing is under the constant threat of unfair foreign competition,” said Congressman Peter Visclosky. “Every case before the United States International Trade Commission is an opportunity to fix the imbalances created by countries that do not follow the rules of global trade, and this case is no different. Now more than ever, we must stand up and protect American jobs.” Background: Dumping occurs when a foreign company sells a product in the United States at prices far less than the market rate. Foreign companies, many of which are subsidized by their host governments, try to sell steel in the US at prices below the cost of production in order to undermine the free market and injure the US steel industry. On May 24, 2012, the Commerce Department announced that steel producers from India, Vietnam, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were dumping steel pipe used in construction and plumbing work onto the US market. In order to combat these low rates, the Commerce Dept. has instructed the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to require a cash deposit or bond based on these preliminary duties, which are detailed in the letter. For more information, including a list of members who have signed onto the letter, click here. Copy of the Steel Caucus Letter: October 17, 2012 The Honorable Irving Williamson Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20436 Re: Circular Welded Carbon-Quality Steel Pipe from India, Oman, United Arab Emirates and Vietnam Inv. Nos. 701-TA-482-485 and 731-TA-1191-1194 (Final) Dear Chairman Williamson: We write to urge the U.S. International Trade Commission (“ITC”) to apply antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing duty (“CVD”) orders on unfairly-traded imports of Circular Welded Carbon-Quality Steel Pipe from India, Oman, United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam. These orders are critical to the economic vitality of the U.S. pipe and steel pipe industry and its workers. Circular welded pipe, also commonly known as “standard pipe,” is one of the key products made for plumbing, construction and fire safety applications. The pipe industry is also an important customer for domestic steelmakers, which produce the flat-rolled steel made into welded steel pipe. Vibrant pipe and steel sectors are essential for continued domestic economic growth and job creation in construction and heavy manufacturing. As members who represent workers and facilities manufacturing steel and steel pipe and tube products, we are deeply concerned about the impact of unfairly-traded imports on the industry and communities across the country. An investigation by the Department of Commerce has carefully documented how foreign producers are receiving significant government subsidies, allowing them to sell pipe into the U.S. market at prices below fair value. The Department investigation clearly shows that these imports have depressed U.S. prices and injured domestic industries. As reported by the petitioners, imports from the four countries almost doubled from 106,172 tons in 2009 to 206,026 in 2011. The antidumping and countervailing duty cases were filed on October 26, 2011; the ITC issued an affirmative preliminary decision on December 12, 2011. On March 27, 2012, the Commerce Department announced its affirmative preliminary determinations in the CVD investigations on certain steel pipe from India and Vietnam, and its negative preliminary determinations on certain steel pipe from Oman and the UAE. The Department preliminarily determined that Indian and Vietnamese producers received countervailable subsidies of 283.95 percent, and 0.04 to 8.06 percent, respectively. With regard to the antidumping investigation, on May 24, 2012 the Department announced affirmative preliminary determinations, finding that producers from India, Vietnam, Oman and the UAE sold certain pipe in the United States at dumping margins (or margin ranges) of 48.43 percent; 0.00 percent to 27.96 percent; 5.59 percent; and 3.29 percent to 11.71 percent. The Department is expected to issue its final determinations on October 15, 2012. These unfairly traded imports have led to the significant loss of market share and employment for the domestic industry despite a gradual recovery in demand. In these uncertain economic times it is even more important that relief is provided to an industry and workforce that have been injured by unfair trade practices. These companies and their employees have fought long and hard to compete on a level playing field. Ensuring that the trade laws are applied in this matter will provide them with the opportunity to continue to compete now and into the future. Thank you for providing us with this opportunity to comment for the record. The final injury hearing in this matter is scheduled at the Commission on October 17, 2012 and we ask that this letter is included in the hearing record. Sincerely, Tim Murphy Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus Peter J. Visclosky Vice Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus
10.12.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced the release of a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which affects the areas of Hammond and Munster currently within the floodplain as requested. The LOMR revises the Flood Insurance Study Report and Flood Insurance Rate Map for the affected local communities, providing additional flood protection and reducing the obligation of flood insurance within the designated area. Substantial investments made through the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project have improved the area’s flood management capabilities, which led to the request for a LOMR. “We on the Munster Town Council are very happy and pleased that the efforts of so many have contributed to the removal of 1,672 structures from the Flood Hazard Zone in Munster. This was a joint effort with Congressman Pete Visclosky, City of Hammond, Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, the Indiana State Legislature, and our residents to bring us to this successful outcome,” Munster Town Council President David Nellans said. “The LOMR allows Hammond and Munster residents to save money,” said Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission Executive Director Dan Repay. “We should always be cautious with Mother Nature, but lowering the flood risk of local homes means lowering the insurance obligations every family is faced with. I thank Congressman Visclosky and all of the local leaders involved for making this happen.” Congressman Visclosky added, “I am pleased to see this decision from FEMA, which shows that our cooperative efforts on the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project are paying off. Our ability to manage heavy rains is stronger. Our residents’ flood insurance obligations are lower. And our quality of life is higher. I will continue to work with local officials and residents in Lake County and throughout Northwest Indiana to improve our flood management capabilities.” ###
10.02.2012	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced a grant award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to A Positive Approach to Teen Health (PATH), a 501 (c)(3) organization dedicated to teen health programs. The funds were awarded from the Department’s Personal Responsibility Education Program (PREP) created by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. According to PATH’s mission statement, the organization works “to equip, empower, and encourage teens to make healthy life choices through life skills, relationship, and character building education.” PATH serves approximately 15,000 young people in 23 school districts across seven counties of Northwest Indiana. Donna L. Golob, Executive Director of PATH, explained that the grant would provide a major boost to the organization in its efforts to reach the youth of Northwest Indiana. With this grant, “PATH will continue to bring age-appropriate and medically-accurate programming to students, enabling them to make stronger life choices and resulting in stronger communities,” she said. Ms. Golob also expressed the need to keep teen health and abstinence programs “factual, relevant, and interactive.” “Today’s youth are looking for the truth,” she said. Congressman Visclosky added, “I am grateful to the dedicated staff of PATH for securing this grant, which was made possible by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. With parents, teachers, and community organizations working together to encourage healthy decisions, our region’s teens have a support system in place as they pursue successful careers and healthy lives.” The award to PATH totals $691,213.00. ###
10.01.2012	Hammond, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced over $2 million in grant awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the City of Hammond under the Department’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and HOME awards programs. The three programs are intended to improve economic opportunities and provide adequate housing for low- and very low-income families. The CDBG program is awarded annually and helps state and local governments provide decent, affordable housing. ESG awards are also given annually to improve the quantity and quality of local homeless shelters. The HOME program helps to provide affordable housing to working families. City of Hammond Mayor Thomas McDermott said, “The funds obtained from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development are crucial to making Hammond a better place to live, work and invest in. They allow us to expand economic opportunities, provide affordable housing and make our city more attractive. We are grateful to Congressman Visclosky for his assistance in securing these grants.” Congressman Visclosky added, “I appreciate the hard work of Mayor McDermott and the City of Hammond to secure these grants. With livable, affordable housing, we can make our region’s cities and towns stronger options for new businesses and new jobs. With the basic needs of our most vulnerable residents fulfilled, we can renew our commitment to the well-being of all Northwest Indiana families.” The three grants to the City of Hammond total $2,402,005.
09.28.2012	Munster, IN – Congressman Visclosky announced that St. Paul’s Lutheran School in Munster has been named a 2011-2012 President’s Challenge Physical Fitness State Champion Winner. St. Paul’s was one of three schools in the State of Indiana selected. State Champion Winners are schools with the highest number of students scoring at or above the 85th percentile on the President’s Challenge Physical Fitness Test. St. Paul’s will receive a distinctive award certificate as well as statewide and national recognition for their achievement. Barb Mertens, Principal of St. Paul’s, expressed her gratitude for the school’s selection for a State Champion Award. “St. Paul’s Lutheran School is honored to be a recipient of this award. Our main goal is to improve physical health, promote healthy lifestyle choices, and learn the five areas of fitness,” she said. According to the President’s Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, the five components of the President’s Challenge Physical Fitness Test assess five areas of physical fitness: a one-mile run and walk for heart and lung endurance; curl-ups for abdominal strength and endurance; a “sit-and-reach” stretch for flexibility; pull-ups for upper body strength and endurance; and a shuttle run for agility. Ms. Mertens noted the positive impact the program had on St. Paul’s students. “From the start of this program, we saw a change in the students’ attitudes. There was an excitement to achieve the goal with a good attitude and spirit. The teachers identified an improvement in their students’ self-esteem. Students are proud of their accomplishments and we are proud of the students,” Ms. Mertens said. Congressman Visclosky added, “I congratulate all of the dedicated students and staff of St. Paul’s Lutheran School for their efforts to earn this award. When Northwest Indiana’s young people are active and healthy, they arrive at school ready to learn, grow, and achieve. A healthy start means a healthy future.”
09.25.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky extended his congratulations to the Gary and Hammond Housing Authorities for their hard work to secure grants from the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Administration (HUD) that will help low-income job seekers find new employment opportunities. The grants, awarded under HUD’s FY 2012 Housing Choice Voucher-Family Self-Sufficiency (HCV-FSS) program, allow local entities to hire and retain employees who assist families receiving rental assistance in their search for new jobs. Grants to the Gary Housing Authority and Hammond Housing Authority will support one position for each. City of Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson explained how essential HCV-FSS grants are to helping Gary residents find new opportunities. “Thanks to this HCV-FSS grant, our residents will have one more individual working on their behalf,” said Freeman-Wilson. “The position will help more Gary citizens secure stable employment, which enhances their quality of life.” Maria Carmen Paniagua, Executive Director of the Hammond Housing Authority added that the funds would expand the reach of the Authority’s existing programming. “These additional funds will help us enhance the programs as well as service more families to become economically self sufficient through training as well as counseling," said Paniagua. “I commend the work of the Gary Housing Authority and the Hammond Housing Authority to secure these grants,” said Congressman Visclosky. “The HUD awards granted to the Gary Housing Authority and Hammond Housing Authority will help Northwest Indiana’s job seekers find steady employment in difficult times and get back on their feet.” The award to the Gary Housing Authority totals $50,900. The award to the Hammond Housing Authority totals $29,709. ###
09.25.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a grant to the Griffith-Merrillville Airport from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to help the airport plan for drainage and culvert improvements that will enhance the Airport’s future growth trajectory. The grant was awarded under the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which provides support for planning and development efforts at local airports across the country. Griffith-Merrillville Airport Vice President and General Manager Craig Anderson explained that the grant would assist the Airport in the ongoing construction of its parallel taxiway by allowing it to perform the necessary planning for drainage and piping for water control. “The construction of taxiway at the Airport is a great safety enhancement for aircraft operations as well as an attractive point in bringing in more traffic to the local area, thus enhancing economic development in the Region,” Mr. Anderson said. “I commend the hard work of Vice President and General Manager Craig Anderson and all of the dedicated staff at Griffith-Merrillville Airport for their work to secure this grant,” Congressman Visclosky said. “When our airports are able to grow, our businesses can grow, and when our businesses can grow, all of us will enjoy more jobs, a stronger economy, and a higher quality of life.” The award to Griffith-Merrillville Airport totals $63,900. ###
09.19.2012	Merrillville, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced an award to Portage’s Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana from the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The award was given as part of the Susan Harwood Training Grant Program. This grant will allow the Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana (CAF) to continue to provide critical safety training to area contractors and their craft employees to ensure safe working environments on construction sites throughout Northwest Indiana. The grant funds will be used to continue the CAF's Site Safety Certification training program, an intensive series of eight-day training sessions that prepares contractors and their employees to successfully manage on-the-job safety procedures and requirements. Dewey Pearman, Executive Director of CAF, said, “Safety on the construction site is the top priority of contractors in Northwest Indiana and the CAF is pleased to be able to offer this valuable training to area contractors and their building trades craft workers." Congressman Visclosky said, “I applaud the Construction Advancement Foundation for its dedication to ensuring that Northwest Indiana workers are prepared to handle the dangers they encounter every day. Thanks to CAF’s efforts, construction sites throughout Northwest Indiana are safer places to work.” The Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana is a regional construction industry trade association of 500 contractors working in a seven county region of Northwest Indiana. Members of CAF employ over 25,000 union building trades craftsmen, who work in the commercial, industrial, and public works segments of the regional construction industry market. The award to CAF totals $105,325.
09.14.2012	Rensselaer, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the award of a Title III Grant to Saint Joseph’s College from the U.S. Department of Education. The grant, awarded under the Department’s Strengthening Institutions Program (SIP), helps postsecondary schools expand their capacity to serve low-income students by providing funds to improve academic and institutional programming. Only 14 colleges and universities nationwide were selected to receive a grant award under the program. "Receiving the Title III Strengthening Institutions Program grant is a tremendous honor that will benefit Saint Joseph's College in transformative ways," said Saint Joseph's College President Dr. F. Dennis Riegelnegg. "The grant strategies will ensure student success by strengthening educational support services and academic advising and by creating a technology-rich environment to improve learning outcomes." Saint Joseph’s College has received numerous accolades for its success in recent years. The College has been named one of the “Top Ten Best Value” colleges in the Midwest by U.S. News and World Report, in addition to being named “Best Regional College” by the Princeton Review eight years in a row. “I offer my congratulations to Dr. Riegelnegg and all of the hardworking students and staff at Saint Joseph’s College for receiving this grant award,” Congressman Visclosky said. “The link between top-quality colleges and universities and new businesses and jobs is undeniable. I will continue working with all of Northwest Indiana’s colleges and universities to help them maintain their roles as centers of regional innovation.”
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Visclosky extended his congratulations to two Northwest Indiana elementary schools among 269 National Blue Ribbon Schools award winners nationwide: Northview Elementary School in Valparaiso and MacArthur School in Cedar Lake. The schools were honored with the National Blue Ribbon Schools for their outstanding records of student achievement. According to the U.S. Department of Education, a total of 417 schools nationwide were nominated for the awards. National Blue Ribbon Schools awards are given to public and private elementary, middle, and high schools with strong or improving performance records, as measured by state assessments or national tests. In response to the award, Northview Elementary School Principal Loren Hershberger said, “We are tremendously honored by this designation by the U.S. Department of Education. Northview is blessed with a staff that has a remarkable work ethic and values teamwork. They are a highly dedicated staff that cares deeply about the children entrusted to them. Northview students work hard to reach their goals and the high expectations of their teachers. Northview parents have been very supportive and send their children to school prepared and ready to learn.” MacArthur School Principal Marian Buchko added, “Receiving the National Blue Ribbon Award and being recognized as one of the top schools in Indiana is an honor and a privilege. MacArthur School has been on a long journey toward this success, and I am blessed to work with such an amazing group of students, teachers, staff, and parents who consistently focus on working together for the success of all students.” Congressman Visclosky said, “Year after year, I am delighted by the accomplishments of Northwest Indiana schools like Northview Elementary School and MacArthur School. I am thankful for all of the teachers, parents, administrators, and support staff in Northwest Indiana, whose efforts remind us the difference that a good school can make in the life of a child.”
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Visclosky announced five grant awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to the City of Gary and Lake County under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and HOME awards programs. The three programs are intended to improve economic opportunities and provide adequate housing for low- and very low-income families. The CDBG program is awarded annually and helps state and local governments provide decent, affordable housing. ESG grants are awarded annually to improve the quantity and quality of local homeless shelters. The HOME program helps to provide affordable housing to working families. “These dollars continue to be welcomed resources as we are focused on improving the quality of life for Gary residents,” said City of Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. “Federal funding helps level the playing field so that no matter the income, all citizens have options for suitable housing.” Milan Grozdanich, Executive Director of the Lake County Economic Development Department, explained that Lake County is one of only two HUD urban county grantees in the State of Indiana. For over 20 years, Lake County was the only HUD urban county grantee. Mr. Grozdanich said, “The CDBG and HOME grants received from HUD are very important to the urban Lake County communities. 50 percent of the CDBG funds are used for infrastructure improvements, with the remainder of CDBG and all of HOME going towards housing programs. We thank Congressman Visclosky for his continued support for these and other HUD programs used in Lake County.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I commend the efforts of the City of Gary and Lake County to secure these HUD grants. Livable, affordable housing is essential not only to our economic development, but to Northwest Indiana residents’ quality of life.” The City of Gary received three awards: a CDBG award totaling $3,203,459, an ESG award totaling $286,918, and a HOME program award totaling $707,619. Lake County received two awards: a CDBG award totaling $1,294,100 and a HOME program award totaling $455,072.
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky issued the following statement in response to the attack in Benghazi, Libya, that resulted in the deaths of Ambassador J. Christopher Stephens, Foreign Service Officer Sean Smith, and two other American personnel: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the loss of Ambassador Stephens, Foreign Service Officer Smith, and two other American lives in Benghazi. They gave their lives in service to their country, and tonight, Northwest Indiana and the nation rise in silent remembrance of their devotion. I join my colleagues and all Americans in extending my thoughts and prayers to the families and loved ones of these brave individuals.”
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the award of over $71.3 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation via the Federal Railroad Administration to the State of Indiana for the Indiana Gateway project, an effort to reduce congestion and improve the flow of goods and people through Northwest Indiana. The funds, originally allocated through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will address critical needs on the Norfolk Southern Railroad’s Chicago Line and the Amtrak Michigan Line. The work, which will be carried out by the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT), will include track relocation, track reconfiguration, high-speed crossovers, and improvements to signal systems. It will also allow for minor rail additions and a new parallel passing siding. Mark Maassel, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Forum, signaled his excitement for the project and the boost it would give to Northwest Indiana’s economy as a whole. Mr. Maassel said, “We are truly pleased to see the funding for these projects move ahead, as they will dramatically improve the ease with which train traffic will move through Northwest Indiana.” Northwest Indiana Building and Construction Trades Union Business Manager Randy Palmateer explained that the investments in infrastructure will help working families by creating new jobs and strengthening the jobs already in Northwest Indiana. Mr. Palmateer said, “Thanks to the Indiana Gateway project, working families in Northwest Indiana will be able to count on good-paying jobs and a strong infrastructure that will support a thriving economy long into the future. Projects like this are good for workers, good for business and good for Northwest Indiana’s long-term economic growth.” Federal Railroad Administrator Joseph C. Szabo explained that the investments will enable Northwest Indiana to leverage its potential as a transit hub, improve productivity and encourage job growth. “No economy can grow faster than its transportation network allows,” he said. “The investment we’re making in Indiana today will eliminate chokepoints and help both people and goods get where they need to go faster and more efficiently. It’s all part of President Obama’s vision of an America built to last.” Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority President and CEO, Bill Hanna, agreed that the Indiana Gateway project will reduce congestion and improve travel times. Mr. Hanna added that the agreement on Indiana Gateway would enhance the attraction of Northwest Indiana as a destination for businesses and jobs. Mr. Hanna said, “The Indiana Gateway Project will provide much-needed rail improvements in Northwest Indiana, which is one of the most congested rail corridors in the country. It will speed travel times for freight and passenger trains and provide greater access to Chicago for both people and goods. Projects like this create jobs immediately, boost long-term career opportunities for residents and make the region itself more attractive to companies looking to relocate operations or build new facilities. We would like to thank everyone involved, including Congressman Visclosky and the State of Indiana, for their diligence in getting the agreement done that will make this project a reality.” Congressman Visclosky said, “As a hub of freight and passenger rail commerce for the rest of the nation, Northwest Indiana’s economic success depends on the quality of our rail infrastructure. The Indiana Gateway project will create jobs in the short-term, improve the transport of passengers and cargo in the mid-term, and build a foundation for a thriving rail infrastructure and a sound regional economy in the long-term. I commend the hard work of the Federal Railroad Administration, the Norfolk-Southern Railroad, Amtrak, and the State of Indiana to bring this project to fruition.”
09.12.2012	Valparaiso, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the United Way of Porter County received a grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). The grant will allow the United Way of Porter County to expand its SeniorCorps program, which currently serves Porter County, into Lake, La Porte, and Starke Counties as well. The grant will allow the United Way to support programs that will benefit Northwest Indiana residents. With an estimated 300 additional volunteers, United Way of Porter County estimates that it will be able to help 540 area pre-school students achieve improvements in development and preparedness for school, 360 veterans and their families receive services, 2,400 older adults and people with disabilities receive nutritious meals, and 5,000 students receive tutoring and mentoring, among countless other benefits. United Way of Porter County President Sharon Kish said, “We are thrilled that these dollars have been awarded to the United Way of Porter County, so that we may continue to expand our SeniorCorps programs. We are very grateful to Congressman Visclosky and his office for their tireless efforts on our behalf.” Congressman Visclosky said, “Each of us has an obligation to leave Northwest Indiana better than we found it, and none of us understand that fact better than our seniors do. I am grateful that the United Way of Porter County has received this grant, as it will facilitate our seniors’ efforts to stay involved in our communities.” CNCS estimates that 18.7 million seniors – almost 25 percent of the population of adults aged 55 and over – contributed on average more than three billion hours of service in the years between 2008 and 2010. SeniorCorps helps older adults find suitable opportunities to volunteer in their communities. The grant to the United Way of Porter County totals $157,500. ###
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky issued the following statement to commemorate the 11th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Today marks the 11th anniversary of the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and United Airlines Flight 93. We still grieve for our friends and loved ones among the 3,000 who perished on that day. Many of us still recoil at the sight of the destruction that occurred in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania. All of us remember, in our heads and in our hearts, the heroic deeds of our first responders and a nation that found strength through neighbor leaning on neighbor and friend leaning on friend. This is a day not only to remember the lives lost, but to extend our hopes and well-wishes to those still living and serving our country in uniform. I remain committed to the safety and security of the tens of thousands of men and women serving in Afghanistan and all those serving our country around the globe. Let us never forget that our mission is not complete until every first responder and every active duty service member and every veteran knows that we will honor their service in word and in deed.” ###
09.10.2012	Valparaiso, IN — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to the Porter County Regional Airport to update the airport’s Master Plan and identify future airport needs. Porter County Regional Airport Director Kyle Kuebler explained that the grant is the third phase of the FAA’s reimbursement for the Airport’s Master Plan. Porter County Regional Airport’s Master Plan guides the development and growth of the airport to meet both short- and long-term needs. Mr. Kuebler said, “Proceeds from this grant award will allow the airport to bring elements of the Master Plan from ‘concept to construction.’ The Airport Master Plan will guide development of the airport for the next twenty years and helps to maintain the airport’s reputation as an aviation asset for the region.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I commend the work of the Porter County Regional Airport to secure these funds. With the FAA’s assistance, the airport will be able to plan for its long-term growth and help to attract new jobs and new businesses to our region.” This award totals $143,344. ###
08.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced two grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as part of the Agency’s Emergency Food and Shelter Program. The grants, which will be administered by Lake Area United Way, will assist local social service organizations in their efforts to combat hunger and homelessness. “We are thankful to Congressman Visclosky for supporting these needed funds for our community. This supplement is critical during these tough economic times,” said Lou Martinez, chief executive officer and president of Lake Area United Way. “With unemployment still high, basic food and shelter remains a problem for many residents. These dollars will help many individuals that are in need of basic assistance.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I am pleased that Lake Area United Way has secured federal assistance to help provide temporary food and housing support to local families who are facing hard times. By supporting our local social service organizations, we can help Northwest Indiana families get back on their feet.” The grants total $174,015 and $43,043.
08.20.2012	Rensselaer, IN — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to the Jasper County Airport to improve the airport’s drainage system. Jasper County Airport Authority President Andrew Andree explained that the federal dollars will allow the Jasper County Airport Authority to improve the drainage system surrounding existing facilities. Without upgrades to the existing drainage system, future work on the airport itself, such as expanding or moving the hangars, runways, or terminal, would not be possible. Mr. Andree said, “These drainage improvements are the keystone for any future improvement to our existing facilities. They will open the door to necessary improvements that will allow the airport to keep up with demand. We are happy that the FAA determined that this project was worthy of federal support, and look forward to moving forward with this important work.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I applaud the Jasper County Airport Authority for their work to secure this grant. Investments in transportation and local infrastructure like these spur economic growth, create jobs and attract new businesses to Northwest Indiana.” This award totals $150,000.
08.02.2012	Merrillville, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that three students from Northwest Indiana have been accepted to our nation’s military academies for the upcoming term. Othie Freeny of Portage will attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. Donald Puent of Porter will attend the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Patrick O’Shea of Munster will attend the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Acceptance to one of the nation’s military academies requires candidates to meet a multitude of general standards of admission. This includes standards regarding character, scholarship, leadership, motivation, physical aptitude, and whole-person evaluation. The average acceptance rate is between 11-15 percent for each of the academies. “I commend the three accepted applicants for their hard work and academic success,” Visclosky said. “In choosing to dedicate themselves to the United States military, they have proven that beneath their academic excellence lie strong characters and deep patriotism. I wish each the best of luck as they pursue their education and service to our nation.” When applying for a nomination, applicants must apply to both the respective academy and through Congressman Visclosky’s congressional office. The deadline for filing with Congressman Visclosky’s office for admission to the academies in the 2013-2014 school year is October 26, 2012, at 5:00PM CST. If you or someone you know is interested in applying to a U.S. military academy, visit Congressman Visclosky’s website for more information and application materials.
07.31.2012	Hobart, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded funding to the College of Court Reporting of Hobart under the Training for Realtime Writers program, administered by the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education. According to College of Court Reporting Executive Director Jay Vettickal, the funding will augment the school’s training capacity, with the goal of increasing the overall number of graduates working in realtime captioning jobs. It will also allow the school to expand access to its very own pioneering educational tool, ev360 Professional, which offers realtime writers over 1,200 hours of unique dictation in literary, jury charge, two-voice testimony, multi-voice testimony, and captioning topics (news, weather, sports, etc.). Mr. Vettickal said, “The College of Court Reporting is honored to receive its second grant award from the U.S. Department of Education. The combination of the college’s ev360 technologies and dedicated faculty contributed to graduating and placing a record number of realtime-ready students since the first grant was awarded in 2011, and this new grant will help the college produce even more realtime providers within the next year and in the future.” Congressman Visclosky said, “The highly skilled graduates of the College of Court Reporting and other realtime writers provide invaluable services to our legal system, broadcast networks, governments of all levels, and many others. I was happy to support the college’s efforts to secure this grant, which will give more students access to the college’s innovative training technologies, helping fill the openings in the growing field of realtime writers.” Congressman Visclosky wrote a letter of support for the College of Court Reporting’s application for assistance in May 2012. This award totals $300,000.
07.19.2012	Merrillville, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded funding to the Geminus Corporation of Merrillville to support its Head Start services. According to Geminus President Sanford Kauffman, the funding will allow Geminus to maintain its current Head Start services, instructing children up to age five at locations around Northwest Indiana. Head Start is a national program designed to encourage early childhood development, especially for low-income children and children with disabilities. Mr. Kauffman said, “We are extremely grateful to receive this funding, and glad to be able to continue offering Head Start and Early Head Start services to the people of Northwest Indiana. What is unique about Head Start is the level of engagement it entails, not just from the students, but from their families as well. We are pleased to have the chance to contribute to our community by offering these wonderful programs, and once again are very grateful for this funding allowing us to do so.” Congressman Visclosky said, “Head Start assists working families and their young children to ensure they are school-ready by offering programs designed to foster the skills they need to achieve academic success. It has been my privilege to visit a number of the Head Start classrooms throughout Northwest Indiana, and I have always been impressed by the good work of Geminus Head Start’s teachers and staff. I am pleased that they have received assistance so that they can continue to provide these vital services to the families of Northwest Indiana.” The Head Start program promotes school readiness in children from low-income families by enhancing their cognitive, social, and emotional development. The program encourages family involvement, and emphasizes the role of parents as their child's first and most important teacher. This award totals $6,216,265.
06.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the police departments of Lake Station, St. John, and Whiting will each receive grants through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. The federal funding allows each department to hire one additional officer. Lake Station Lieutenant John McDaniel said, “With reductions in our city budgets, the funding from the COPS program couldn't come at a better time. This grant will allow us to hire an officer that we would not have been able to otherwise. We are very thankful to be receiving this grant, and it has always been a pleasure working with Congressman Pete Visclosky.” “A condition of the grant is that new hires are to be military veterans who have served after 9/11 for a period of no less than 180 days,” said St. John Police Chief Fred Frego. “The St. John Police Department feels honored and very fortunate to be one of only six towns in Indiana to receive this grant. The Department looks forward to accepting the grant and hiring a qualified military veteran. With an additional officer hired under this grant, it will enable the St. John Police Department to enhance services to the citizens of St. John.” Whiting Mayor Joe Stahura said, “Public safety is a top priority. We are always happy to get funding that helps keep police on the streets, especially during an era of tight budgets. This grant will allow us do just that, and will help our police department keep the people of Whiting safe.” “Public safety begins at the local level,” Congressman Visclosky said. “I commend the police departments of Lake Station, St. John, and Whiting for their dedication to keeping our communities safe from crime. I applaud these departments for pursuing federal resources to aid in that effort.” The COPS Hiring Program is scheduled to award approximately $111 million in funding throughout Fiscal Year 2012 to hire additional career law enforcement officers. To date, the COPS Hiring Program has assisted in the hiring of nearly 123,800 officers nationwide, spread among more than 12,000 local, state, and tribal law enforcement agencies. The Lake Station, St. John, and Whiting police departments will each receive $125,000 from the COPS Hiring Program. To apply for COPS funding in the future, check www.cops.usdoj.gov for award opportunities.
06.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky joined Congressman Robert Aderholt in advancing a Buy American amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 Interior Appropriations Act. The amendment requires that every project receiving funding through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) State Revolving Funds for Clean Water and Drinking Water must use iron and steel products produced in the United States. “This is a common-sense provision that will stimulate American manufacturing,” said Congressman Visclosky. “We must ensure that American taxpayer dollars are spent to create jobs in America. I am pleased that the Committee included this investment in both our water infrastructure and in American iron and steel.” The amendment was approved by voice vote today during the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2013 Interior Appropriations Act. Congressman Visclosky is dedicated to creating good-paying jobs and reinvesting in America’s infrastructure. From his positions as Ranking Member on the Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, he advocates for infrastructure development and fair trade policies that benefit the people of Northwest Indiana and American manufacturing.
06.20.2012	Gary, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded funding to the City of Gary. The funding, which is provided annually through the Emergency Shelter Grants program, is used to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. “Homelessness is a challenge that plagues many of our communities,” said Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. “This funding allows us to help answer the call when Gary residents find themselves in emergency situations and need shelter. We thank HUD for these dollars, and will continue to make them work to benefit our citizens.” Congressman Visclosky said, “For those who unfortunately find themselves homeless, often the first step towards self-sufficiency is access to temporary housing and shelter and this funding will allow the City of Gary to provide these much-needed services. I thank Mayor Freeman-Wilson and her staff for their efforts to assist those less fortunate throughout the community.” The award totals $90,366.
05.30.2012	Gary, IN — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has released federal funds to the Gary/Chicago International Airport to continue its runway expansion. Congressman Visclosky said, “This funding allows all parties involved with the Gary/Chicago International Airport to continue our progress at the airport and to develop its economic potential for the region. This project creates construction jobs in the short term and will stimulate investment and job growth in Northwest Indiana.” “This recent allocation of funds is a great reminder of the progress taking place at the Gary airport and within the City of Gary,” said Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. “We appreciate the support from the Department of Transportation because investment in this runway project means growth for Gary and the entire region.” “The runway extension project at the Gary/Chicago International Airport is a true team effort,” said Bill Hanna, President and CEO of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority, which is also providing funding for the project. “We’re grateful for the continued efforts of the FAA, Congressman Visclosky, the City of Gary, the Airport Board of Directors and the many others who are working to finish the runway on schedule. When completed, it will make the airport a lynchpin for job creation and economic development in the region.” The initial 2006 Letter of Intent provides up to $57.8 million to the Gary/Chicago Airport over 10 years, available in installments of up to $6 million per year. Today’s seventh payment totaled $5,000,000. The funding is designated for its runway expansion and improvements and will make the Gary/Chicago International Airport the third major airport in the Chicago area.
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – With the observance of National Law Enforcement Week as a backdrop, U.S. Congressmen Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Pete Visclosky (IN-01) have introduced a four year reauthorization of the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) program. Created in 1999 by the two lawmakers, the bipartisan BVP program provides state, local and tribal law enforcement officers with needed protection by aiding the purchase of protective equipment. The last reauthorization in 2008 will expire this fiscal year. “The men and women in our local law enforcement play an essential role in safeguarding our communities and protecting the freedoms all of us enjoy. Bulletproof vests and body armor have saved thousands of law enforcement officers. However, they cannot protect the lives of those who do not have access to them,” said LoBiondo. “As protectors of our lives and our property, it is imperative that we give law enforcement the critical tools they need so they may do their jobs and carry out their duties safely and effectively. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership program is one of those critical tools.” “Bulletproof vests save lives,” Visclosky said. “This grant program provides local law enforcement with vital resources to protect our communities in the safest manner possible. We owe our local officers a tremendous debt of gratitude for their commitment to protect and serve, and I am honored to once again have the opportunity to support this program.” Since 1999, over 13,000 jurisdictions across the country have participated in the BVP program with nearly $300 million in federal funds committed to support the purchase of an estimated 800,000 vests. Additional information on the BVP program can be found here. “There is no legislation, no government program, no grant or public-private partnership that can erase the sad fact that law enforcement officers will die. They will die in the line of duty at the hands of armed and violent criminals. But this program can document more than 3,100 officers whose lives were saved because they were wearing soft body armor,” wrote Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police, in the organization’s endorsement letter to LoBiondo and Visclosky. “On behalf of the more than 333,000 members of the Fraternal Order of Police, I thank you both for your support of law enforcement and this important program.” The lawmakers’ bipartisan bill, “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2012” (H.R. 5742), was introduced on the House floor on Tuesday.
05.03.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission during their sunset hearing concerning countervailing duties from Turkey and antidumping duties from Brazil, India, Korea, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, and Turkey on certain types of welded pipe and tube. Congressman Visclosky exhorted the Commission to maintain the duties in order to strengthen American steel, preserve American manufacturing, and ensure America’s economic competitiveness in the future. Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery, is below. ______________ I would like to thank Chairman Okun, Vice Chairman Williamson, and all of the members of the Commission for the opportunity to provide testimony on this important hearing involving countervailing duties from Turkey and antidumping duties from Brazil, India, Korea, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, and Turkey on certain types of welded pipe and tube. I deeply appreciate your sincere efforts in this case and in all your initiatives to enforce our trade laws. As you are well aware, these duties have been in place for some time, and have most recently been extended in June of 2007. There are approximately 1,500 American workers involved in the production of these pipes and tubes right now, and they depend on our trade laws to compete and succeed in this global economy. As our fragile economy is beginning to recover, now is a critical time to ensure that these workers are able to provide their products to American infrastructure and energy projects. Therefore, I urge you to maintain these duties and determine that their revocation would lead to the continuation or recurrence of material injury to the U.S. industry. I also would add that Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus Tim Murphy and I will be gathering signatures from other Members of the Steel Caucus for a forthcoming letter on this case that will express the same sentiment. From a larger economic perspective, I remain adamant that manufacturing is the key driver of our economy, and we must do everything possible to ensure that our manufacturing base remains strong. Currently, less than 10 percent of the nation’s workforce is employed in manufacturing, and I would point out that in 1970 over 25 percent of our workforce was in manufacturing. As a percentage of GDP, the numbers are very similar. In 1970, American manufacturing as a percentage of GDP was around 23 percent, now it is around 12 percent. From a global perspective, in 1970, the U.S. had about a 28 percent share of the global manufacturing economy, today we are less than 20 percent, just behind China. I firmly believe that manufacturing drives innovation. If you stop manufacturing a product in the United States, it is only a matter of time before the engineering and research and development responsible for the product moves overseas. What incentive will there be for our children to become engineers and scientists and researchers in American manufacturing when all of the manufacturing is performed overseas? This is a precarious situation. We must act now to preserve American manufacturing before it is too late, and I encourage you to do so by ensuring that these duties continue. I thank you again for your fair and thorough consideration of this case, and again appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony to you today.
05.02.2012	Valparaiso, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration has awarded two grants to HealthLinc, of Valparaiso. Both awards were granted under the Affordable Care Act for Capital Development in Health Centers program, one for Immediate Facility Improvement, the other for Building Capacity. According to HealthLinc CEO Beth Wrobel, the Immediate Facility Improvement grant will be used to upgrade existing locations. The Building Capacity grant will be used to purchase a new facility in Valparaiso, allowing HealthLinc to assist an estimated additional 5,500 patients each year. The new facility will offer expanded services for older adults and greatly enhanced dental care. It will also allow HealthLinc to increase medical and behavioral services, as well as optometric care. Ms. Wrobel said of the grant, “HealthLinc is pleased to receive a capital grant for a new location in Valparaiso. We feel we were able to receive this grant due the support of many in our community—especially the City of Valparaiso, Porter Hospital, Porter County Community Foundation, United Way of Porter County, and countless other partners. Last, but not least, we appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s and Senator Lugar’s support of our application.” Congressman Visclosky said, “HealthLinc is a vital asset in our community. The organization’s dedicated staff works tirelessly to provide those in need with access to affordable healthcare. I am pleased that HealthLinc’s good work will be able to continue and expand due to these federal investments, as well as the support of HealthLinc’s community partners.” HealthLinc offers a variety of medical services, targeting people living below 200% of Federal Poverty Level, the uninsured, and underserved. HealthLinc operates five facilities across Northwest Indiana, and serves patients from across the state. The award allotted for Immediate Facility Improvement totals $275,930, and the award allotted for Building Capacity totals $5,000,000.
04.18.2012	Gary, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky and Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson announced today that Tuskegee Airman Quentin Smith of Gary, Indiana, will receive a replacement for his Congressional Gold Medal bronze replica. The original medal was stolen from his home last year. A ceremony presenting Quentin Smith with his medal will be held at his home, 3547 Jefferson Street, Gary, Indiana, on Friday, April 20, 2012, at 4:30 PM. Participants include Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson, members of the Gary Common Council, a representative from Congressman Visclosky’s office, and other local elected officials. “The patriotism, skill, and valor of Quentin Smith and all of the Tuskegee Airmen have earned them great respect and honor,” said Visclosky. “It is my honor to be able to assist an American hero in replacing the medal that symbolizes the respect our nation owes him for his service and sacrifice. I thank Mayor Freeman-Wilson and all those involved in helping rectify this injustice.” “Dr. Smith is a jewel in our community. From his military service to his stellar career in education, he is adored and admired by family, friends, mentees, colleagues and those who have been inspired by his legacy,” said Freeman-Wilson. “It was only fitting that this replica medal be delivered to such a deserving individual. I commend and thank Congressman Visclosky and his team for making this a priority.” The Congressional Gold Medal commemorating the Tuskegee Airmen, the first group of African-Americans to become military aviators, was created by an act of Congress in 2006. Surviving Tuskegee Airmen or their widows were presented with bronze replicas following a presentation ceremony in March of 2007. Quentin Smith initially was presented with his Congressional Gold Medal bronze replica by Congressman Visclosky in 2007.
04.11.2012	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky, along with 14 other Members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter that urges the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to maintain the anti-dumping order on U.S. imports of tin mill products from Japan. The letter will be submitted as part of the official comments during today’s ITC hearing on this case. Visclosky said, “It is imperative that the ITC maintain the current anti-dumping order so that tin manufacturers in Northwest Indiana and across America can stay competitive. If the order is revoked, the U.S. tin mill industry would see a significant surge in Japanese products, and this would be devastating for American jobs.” Congressman Visclosky remains committed to establishing a level playing field for American manufacturing. Visclosky has a proven track record of defending American manufacturing from exploitative trade partners, having sponsored the American Steel First Act and the Fighting for American Jobs Act, and having cosponsored bills including the Free and Fair Trade Act and the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act in 2011. In the 112th Congress, he has also testified numerous times in front of the ITC about maintaining fair trade, and has taken to the House floor to speak about trade issues. Cosigners of the letter to the ITC include: Reps. Jason Altmire (D-PA), Hansen Clarke (D-MI), Jerry Costello (D-IL), Chip Cravaack (R-MN), Mark Critz (D-PA), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Mike Kelly (R-PA), David McKinley (R-WV), George Miller (D-CA), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Terri Sewell (D-AL).
04.09.2012	Crown Point, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky will host the annual Military Academy Night for high school freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who are interested in attending one of the following service academies: United States Military Academy at West Point, New York United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, Connecticut Remarks will be made by Congressman Visclosky and members of the Academy Nomination Board, followed by a question and answer session. Presentations will describe academy life, detail the opportunities available to academy students and graduates, and review the academy nomination process. Interested students may pick up application information at the event. The details of the event are as follows: Date: Thursday, April 12, 2012 Time: 6:00PM – 8:30PM CST Location: Purdue Academic Learning Center 9900 Connecticut Drive Crown Point, Indiana 46307 For further information regarding the event, please contact Congressman Visclosky’s Merrillville Office at (219) 795-1844. Information can also be found on Congressman Visclosky’s website, https://visclosky.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations.
03.28.2012	Gary, IN – Congressman Pete Visclosky will host a Veterans’ Opportunities Fair on March 31, 2012, in Gary. The fair will bring together employers, healthcare organizations, housing assistance providers, and financial services providers, with the goal of providing military veterans information on the support available to them from federal agencies and veterans services organizations, and to alert them to local job opportunities. The details of the event are as follows: Date: Saturday, March 31, 2012 Time: 11:00AM – 2:00PM CST Location: Indiana University Northwest Savannah Center Gym 3400 Broadway, Gary, Indiana 46408 Job seekers will have access to employers and labor groups throughout Northwest Indiana, as well as two 30-minute workshops at 12:00PM and 1:00PM on Demilitarizing Your Resume, guided by Veteran Representatives from WorkOne. Housing assistance and financial service providers will also be available to answer any questions. Local institutes of higher learning will be on hand to assist those looking to further their education. Furthermore, veterans with healthcare or benefits questions may attend presentations from the Veterans Health Administration and the Veterans Benefits Administration beginning at 11AM. This event is open to the public and registration is not required. Our nation’s veterans have given so much to our country, and we owe them a great debt of gratitude for the sacrifices they have made. Please be sure to regularly check the website, or call (219) 795-1844, for updates on the event.
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development awarded grants to the Hammond Housing Authority and Housing Opportunities, Inc. The grants, provided by the Housing Counseling Program, are designed to expand homeownership opportunities and improve access to affordable housing. According to Compliance/Housing Choice Voucher Program Director Michelle Seljan, the Hammond Housing Authority will use the grant to provide housing counseling services for prospective homeowners and those seeking advice with managing their home’s financing. Seljan said, “We will use the grant funding to continue our successful housing counseling program. The Housing Counselor provides homebuyer education before and after the home is purchased, budget counseling, referral information, and foreclosure intervention. Our goal is to help people become homebuyers for the first time or remain homeowners after they buy a house.” Housing Opportunities, Inc., CEO Caroline Shook said, “Housing Opportunities is very excited to receive this funding so that we can continue to serve the community with their housing issues.” Last year, Housing Opportunities, Inc., assisted hundreds of clients with pre- and post-purchase education classes, pre- and post-purchase one-on-one counseling, reverse mortgage counseling, and foreclosure prevention. Congressman Visclosky said, “These programs are vital to helping individuals at all stages of home ownership navigate today’s complicated and often confusing housing market. These resources help consumers make informed decisions regarding this most personal and essential need, and I am very pleased to hear that these organizations have been funded under this grant.” The Hammond Housing Authority will receive $19,141, and Housing Opportunities, Inc., will receive $22,690.
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture awarded an Emergency Community Water Assistance grant to the Town of Goodland for the repair of the town’s water system. The grant is administered under the Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development program. Last November, the Town of Goodland suffered a major disaster when the town’s water tower collapsed, flooding parts of the town, causing physical damage, compromising public safety, and threatening the local water supply. Town Council President Jim Butler said, “The citizens of Goodland deeply appreciate the grant from Rural Development to help put our lives back to normal after the collapse of our water tower. We are currently serving our daily needs by continuously operating pumps, which is costly, and does not provide any reserve capacity for fire protection. This grant will be used to connect the new tower into our existing distribution system, giving us the fire protection we need, and reducing our operating costs. In these difficult times, we must operate our water utility as efficiently as possible to keep the costs to our citizens as low as possible. This grant helps us achieve that goal.” Congressman Visclosky said of the grant, “There are very few aspects of daily life that are more important than access to clean drinking water and fire protection, so I was very pleased to learn that the Town of Goodland has been awarded this federal grant. These funds will greatly assist the town in rectifying the issues that resulted from November’s water tower collapse. I commend everyone involved for procuring this emergency infrastructure assistance.” The Emergency Community Water Assistance Grant program is designed to assist rural communities that have experienced a significant decline in quantity or quality of drinking water due to an emergency. The total amount administered under this grant will be $150,000.
03.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (IN-01) today convened a hearing focused on the current state of the steel industry. The Caucus heard from steel industry leaders and discussed the impact of Chinese trade abuses as well as proposals to promote steel production and job creation in the U.S. Witnesses included representatives from U.S. Steel, Cliffs Natural Resources, Nucor, ArcelorMittal USA, Steel Dynamics Inc., TMK IPSCO, and United Steelworkers. “While the American steel industry stands at the forefront of quality, productivity, and environmental protection, the future of steel jobs in the USA are at risk,” said Murphy. “Foreign nations like China and Russia routinely violate their obligations under trade agreements. Energy and raw material costs are higher due in part to costly new regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency. That’s why the Caucus is going to keep doing everything it can to advance a pro-manufacturing agenda putting America’s steelmakers in position to compete and win globally.” “I am deeply appreciative to all those who attended today’s hearing to talk about the issues confronting the steel industry and its workers. Testimony at the hearing reaffirmed what the Steel Caucus has advocated for some time now: that we need to level the playing field for American manufacturing and defend our workers from currency manipulators and subsidizers, as well as invest in our infrastructure with American made steel,” said Visclosky. “Strengthening American manufacturing and returning to making things in America is not only the best source of job creation and economic recovery, it is the only viable option. Every lost moment means a lost job, which is why I will continue to do all I can in the fight to protect American steel and American jobs.” A recurring theme during testimony in today’s hearing was the need to invest in rebuilding our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, which would help boost the steel industry’s recovery and put more Americans back to work. Chairman Murphy and Vice Chairman Visclosky have a long history of supporting the American steel industry. Most recently, they introduced the American Steel First Act (H.R. 1703), to require the Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Homeland security to use only steel and iron made in America in any of their departments’ construction and repair projects. In the 111th Congress, the Chairman and Vice Chairman were instrumental in ensuring Buy America provisions were added to major infrastructure funding bills. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress representing districts with steel manufacturers and the domestic steel supply chain. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. Click here for Murphy’s opening remarks. Click here for Visclosky’s opening remarks.
03.19.2012	WASHINGTON D.C.; MERRILLVILLE, IND.; and WEST LAFAYETTE, IND. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, of Indiana's 1st District, received the 2011 Congressional Leadership in Economic Development Award from the International Economic Development Council (IEDC). The recognition was bestowed Monday, March 19, during the organization's 2012 Federal Economic Development Forum in Washington, D.C. Joseph B. Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation, nominated Visclosky for the award for his work and contributions to building and expanding the Northwest Indiana economy. "I am honored to receive this prestigious award. The success of the Purdue Research Park in Northwest Indiana and other local economic development initiatives that I have been involved with is due in no small part to tremendous regional cooperation," Visclosky said. "Working with partners such as Purdue University, the Regional Development Authority, municipal officials, and local economic development organizations is a privilege, and I am deeply thankful for all they contribute to our region. I am excited to see what the future holds for the next generation, and humbled to have been able to assist with some of the great work that has laid the foundation for a better tomorrow." The development of Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana began when former Purdue President Martin Jischke informed Visclosky that the Indiana General Assembly had authorized Purdue to expand its research facilities away from its main campus, but a dedicated funding stream had not been identified. Together, they set about developing the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana, a high-tech incubator that expanded Purdue's research and technology expertise in the area. In 2002, a groundbreaking for the facility was held, thanks in part to the $6.9 million in funding Visclosky secured to construct the initial 48,000-square-foot facility on 386 acres owned by the Purdue Research Foundation. In 2010, Visclosky attended a 12,000-square-foot expansion dedication at the Center, for which he secured an additional $2.28 million. Today the site has 33 new and expanding companies in eight buildings that support 719 jobs. The average annual wage for jobs in the park is $63,000, which is 65 percent greater than the average annual salary in Indiana. The incubator was the second Purdue Research Park established in Indiana. The Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette opened in 1961. "The Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana is just one example of how Pete has successfully created long-term, high-tech economic development initiatives for the people he represents in Congress," Hornett said. "The successful launch of the northwest Indiana park led to the opening of the two other Purdue Research Park incubators in Indianapolis and New Albany. "Pete's commitment to the area goes beyond the support he has given to Purdue, as he has provided support for multiple economic projects." Visclosky has provided leadership for several ongoing economic development projects including: The Center for Innovation through Visualization and Simulation. The center partners with companies to provide student experiential learning opportunities and economic savings for partnering companies in the steel industry and other sectors. Partnerships with Argonne National Lab, the Purdue-Calumet Energy Efficiency and Water Institute Research Facility and others to conduct research and provide educational programs in water resources. The Transportation, Distribution, and Logistics Center at Ivy Tech Community College in Gary, Indiana. The center allows residents to study logistics, distribution and transportation resources to pursue careers in those sectors. The Indiana University Northwest Health Research Institute. The institute was able to purchase equipment to further develop its medical program at Indiana University Northwest. "This award recognizes an individual at the federal level who has gone above and beyond administrating a federal economic development program," said Jeff Finkle, president and CEO of the International Economic Development Council. "Congressman Visclosky was selected from a group of several outstanding nominees for this award, and the judges chose him because of his vast contributions to build and strengthen the economy in Northwest Indiana." Visclosky represents the First Congressional District of Indiana, which includes Lake, Porter, Newton, Jasper and Benton Counties. He is a member of the Appropriations Committee and serves as Ranking Member of its Energy & Water Development Subcommittee, where he has worked to boost investments in new energy technologies that will help reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. He also sits on the Defense Subcommittee, the Financial Services Subcommittee and is the vice chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. Visclosky was born in Gary, Ind., and graduated from Andrean High School in Merrillville. He earned a bachelor of science in accounting from Indiana University Northwest, a Juris Doctoris from the University of Notre Dame Law School, and a master of laws in international and comparative law from Georgetown University Law Center. About the International Economic Development Council The International Economic Development Council is the world’s largest independent non-profit membership and research organization devoted exclusively to the field of economic development. IEDC helps economic development professionals create high-quality jobs, develop vibrant communities and improve the quality of life in their regions. Serving more than 4,400 members, IEDC provides a diverse range of services including conferences, professional development and certification, publications, research, advisory services, and legislative tracking. About Purdue Research Foundation Purdue Research Foundation (https://www.prf.org) is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubator in the country. In addition to the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, the foundation has established technology parks in other locations around Indiana including Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
03.15.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Indiana congressional delegation today sent a letter to President Barack Obama expressing strong support for Governor Mitch Daniels’ request that the administration provide Public Assistance to five counties in southern Indiana impacted by the recent severe tornadoes and storms. Yesterday the governor asked that a Major Disaster Area Declaration be declared for Clark, Jefferson, Scott, Ripley and Washington counties. In the letter, the members state, “After surveying the damage and consulting with state and local government officials, it is clear the recovery is beyond the combined capabilities and resources of the State of Indiana. “Governor Daniels is requesting federal public assistance for Clark, Jefferson, Ripley, Scott, and Washington counties. These counties in particular need heightened assistance to cover the cost of debris removal, emergency services related to the disaster and repairing or replacing damaged public facilities, such as roads, buildings, and utilities.” The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for federal public assistance for five counties in the State of Indiana that were especially devastated following the tornadoes and severe storms that hit Southern Indiana from February 29 to March 3, 2012. The disastrous weather caused extensive damage to public and private property throughout Southern Indiana. After surveying the damage and consulting with state and local government officials, it is clear the recovery is beyond the combined capabilities and resources of the State of Indiana. Governor Daniels is requesting federal public assistance for Clark, Jefferson, Ripley, Scott, and Washington counties. These counties in particular need heightened assistance to cover the cost of debris removal, emergency services related to the disaster and repairing or replacing damaged public facilities, such as roads, buildings, and utilities. As we previously wrote, Hoosiers have a long history of triumphing over tragedy and believe timely federal assistance will significantly assist Indiana’s recovery efforts. We respectfully request you give careful consideration to Governor Daniels’ request. Thank you for your immediate attention to our previous request and for your continued consideration of this important matter. In service, Richard Lugar United States Senator Dan Coats United States Senator Todd Young Member of Congress Dan Burton Member of Congress Pete Visclosky Member of Congress Mike Pence Member of Congress Joe Donnelly Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Larry Bucshon Member of Congress Todd Rokita Member of Congress Marlin Stutzman Member of Congress
03.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – The Indiana Congressional Delegation today sent a letter to President Barack Obama expressing strong support for Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a Major Disaster Area Declaration for the State of Indiana following the devastating tornadoes and severe storms that hit southern Indiana on March 2, 2012. In the letter, the members state, “Shortly after the deadly storms dissipated from the Indiana skies, Governor Mitch Daniels declared a state of emergency invoking the state’s emergency plan in order to aid local and individual rescue and clean-up efforts. However, after surveying the damage and consulting with state and local government officials, it is clear the recovery is beyond the capabilities and resources of the State of Indiana.” “Hoosiers have a proud and resilient history of triumphing over tragedy and persevering past precarious circumstances. However, the magnitude of the current disaster demands further federal assistance. Together, we firmly believe the next step on the long road to recovery is the issuance of a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration. We hope careful consideration will be given to Governor Daniels’ request, and believe timely federal assistance will significantly assist Indiana’s recovery efforts.” The full text of the letter follows: March 09, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for Governor Mitch Daniels' request for a Major Disaster Area Declaration for the State of Indiana following the devastating tornadoes and severe storms that hit Southern Indiana on March 2, 2012. This period of disastrous weather caused extensive damage to public and private property throughout Southern Indiana. Countless families and businesses are forever changed as a result of these deadly storms. Shortly after the deadly storms dissipated from the Indiana skies, Governor Mitch Daniels declared a state of emergency invoking the state's emergency plan in order to aid local and individual rescue and clean-up efforts. However, after surveying the damage and consulting with state and local government officials, it is clear the recovery is beyond the capabilities and resources of the State of Indiana. This evaluation is reinforced by the joint preliminary damage assessment conducted by the Governor's office and FEMA. The Governor is requesting federal assistance for Clark, Jefferson, Ripley, Scott, Warrick and Washington counties. These counties in particular need temporary housing, legal assistance, disaster unemployment assistance, crisis counseling and U.S. Small Business Administration Disaster Loans. The Governor also is requesting Hazard Mitigation statewide. Hoosiers have a proud and resilient history of triumphing over tragedy and persevering past precarious circumstances. However, the magnitude of the current disaster demands further federal assistance. Together, we firmly believe the next step on the long road to recovery is the issuance of a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration. We hope careful consideration will be given to Governor Daniels' request, and believe timely federal assistance will significantly assist Indiana's recovery efforts. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Richard Lugar United States Senator Dan Coats United States Senator Todd Young Member of Congress Dan Burton Member of Congress Pete Visclosky Member of Congress Mike Pence Member of Congress Joe Donnelly Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Larry Bucshon Member of Congress Todd Rokita Member of Congress Marlin Stutzman Member of Congress
02.29.2012	Valparaiso, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to Valparaiso University. The award will be used to fund the “U.S.-Japan Bilateral Workshop: The Tropical Tropopause Layer” under the direction of Professor Gary Morris. The funds will go toward participation in a research workshop between American and Japanese students and faculty, providing experience for students, and fostering international cooperation. President Mark A. Heckler of Valparaiso University said, “We are very pleased by the National Science Foundation’s support of this exciting international workshop that will spark continued collaboration and research around such critical topics as climate change and stratospheric chemistry. I commend Professor Gary Morris from Valparaiso University, and his fellow organizers in the United States and Japan, for conceiving of a workshop that not only gathers today's experts, but also invites undergraduate, graduate and post-doctoral students to participate. The results will be immediate gains in our understanding from experienced scientists and future gains from the concurrent development and mentoring of the next-generation of atmospheric researchers.” Visclosky said, “I commend the efforts of Valparaiso University’s faculty and staff to develop exceptional educational opportunities for their students. This program will provide invaluable experience for participating students and faculty, and is one more reason why Valparaiso University is regarded as an elite national university.” The award will be effective July 1, 2012. The award totals $35,418. More information regarding the award will be available at the NSF Award Abstracts database at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1158805.
02.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced grant awards to Portage and Burns Harbor under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Grants distributed under this program are designed to enhance the service that fire departments and emergency responders provide to their communities by improving operations and safety. With this grant, the Burns Harbor Fire Department will be able to replace its existing fire hose and nozzles. According to Chief William Arney, the current hose being utilized is placed out of service annually due to wear and tear. In addition to the hose replacement, the Department will purchase two blitz fire nozzles that will be used in firefighting and in hazardous material situations. The Department also will purchase other up-to-date equipment that will help make firefighters safer. Chief Arney added that he would like to thank the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Town of Burns Harbor for their continued support. Congressman Visclosky said, “I am happy to announce these grants to our local fire departments. The funds will keep these heroic individuals safe and allow them to more efficiently and effectively provide for the public safety of Burns Harbor and Portage citizens.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is run by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. For more information about the program, visit https://www.fema.gov/firegrants/. Burns Harbor Fire Department will receive $52,146. Portage Fire Department will receive $741,150. ###
02.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded multiple grants to the East Chicago, Gary, and Hammond Housing Authorities. These funds are awarded under the 2012 Capital Fund Program, which provides funds annually to assist Public Housing Agencies in the modernization and development of public housing. East Chicago Housing Authority’s Executive Director Beatriz Martinez said, “This funding will be used for Capital/Modernization Projects, along with upgrades of outdated equipment and real property. It will also allow us to address repair work needed when an emergency develops at the East Chicago Housing Authority.” Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson said, “The funding from this grant is welcomed and will be used to continue equipment updates and repairs throughout our facilities.” According to the Hammond Housing Authority’s Acting Executive Director Jennifer Dildine, “The funding will be used for the continuing revitalization of Columbia Center and building system improvements for the Hubert Humphrey Senior Building.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I am pleased to see that this funding is going to the cities of East Chicago, Gary, and Hammond. The Capital Fund grants will help these cities ensure that quality housing is available to those who need it most.” The East Chicago Housing Authority will receive one grant totaling $1,149,659. The Gary Housing Authority will receive two grants totaling $3,419,520. The Hammond Housing Authority will also receive two grants totaling $676,393.
02.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission during their hearing on China’s State-Owned and State-Controlled Enterprises. Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery, is below. ______________ I would like to thank Chairman Shea, Hearing Co-Chair Cleveland, Hearing Co-Chair Wessel, and all of the members of this Commission for their invitation to speak before you today on the very timely and important issue of China’s state-owned and state-controlled enterprises. I represent the First Congressional District of Indiana, where more steel is produced than in any state in the nation. The Steel Caucus, of which I am Vice Chairman, became aware of the issue of Chinese state-owned enterprises in 2010. While the Caucus took action two years ago, this issue is as relevant and more troubling today. I am concerned that China’s state-owned enterprises will only continue to gain influence in our country and around the world in the future, and it is my hope that through hearings and discussions such as the one that you are holding today, we can begin to develop the appropriate policies that ensure American workers and American companies can fairly compete in a world with Chinese state-owned enterprises. To demonstrate the relevance of China’s state-owned enterprises today, I would point out that just this past week there were two articles of note. On February 10, 2012, the Washington Post had an article entitled, “U.S. Says it Wants Investment, But China Remains Wary.” The article stated how the Obama Administration has made seeking Chinese investment a priority, and that this will be a topic that is discussed during this week’s visit of China’s Vice President Xi Jinping, who is expected to become China’s President later this year. The article goes on to note that China invested $1.1 billion in the United States in 2011, and that some expect that Chinese state-owned enterprises could invest as much as $2 trillion worldwide in the next decade. Historically, from 1990 to 2000, China invested $2.4 billion abroad per year, but in 2009 that number exploded to $43.3 billion, and it increased further to $59 billion in 2010. We can see why the United States is so interested in this type of investment from an article in the Wall Street Journal that ran the following day entitled, “In the Heart of the Rust Belt, Chinese Funds Provide the Grease.” This article stated that Nexteer Automotive in Saginaw, Michigan, was on the verge of closing and letting go of 3,000 jobs. But then a Chinese state-owned enterprise, Pacific Century Motors, which is controlled by the Aviation Industry Corporation of China and Beijing E-town International Investment Corporation, bought the auto-parts maker for $450 million. These 3,000 workers, instead of looking for their next employment opportunity, are now installing new equipment, thanks to the investment of a Chinese state-owned enterprise. So while this appears to be a positive investment initially, I remain very cautious. My concern is that there is no means for oversight or recourse for American workers if ulterior motives are involved and if the original investment dollars were generated through state subsidies that rendered other Americans unemployed. The above mentioned case is an apparent win for the American worker, but what if the motive for the investment of a Chinese state-owned enterprise is to gain technology developed in the United States for export to China? What if the motive for the investment of a Chinese state-owned enterprise is to operate an American facility so that they can avoid paying American tariffs? Should we reward the use of investment dollars secured through practices that violate international trading standards and that have had an abusive effect on existing businesses in our country? I do not believe these fears are speculative in nature. I do not assume that Chinese state-owned enterprises operate based solely on market forces. We should have a way to transparently and fairly assess their investments. Currently, the only mechanism that America has to examine investments from Chinese state-owned enterprises is through the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), and that is the mechanism that I and the Congressional Steel Caucus pursued when we had concerns about the Anshan Iron and Steel Group’s investment. Anshan is a Chinese state-owned enterprise and is China’s fourth-largest steel producer. I would add that 16 of the top 20 steel groups in China are 100 percent state-owned enterprises. So Anshan is controlled by China’s Assets Supervision Commission of the State Council, and they decided to invest in the project of an American firm, the Steel Development Company, located in Mississippi. As a Caucus, we were concerned that the investment would allow a Chinese state-owned enterprise to pursue the government of China’s aims, and not the aims of the employer, the American worker, or the market. We were concerned that this investment would allow the full force and financing of the Chinese government to exploit the American steel market from American soil. We also were concerned that China would have access to new steel production technologies and information regarding American national security infrastructure projects. As a leader of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and as a Member of Congress representing generations of steelworkers in Northwest Indiana, I have seen the devastation that Chinese currency manipulation and unfair trading practices have wrought on our manufacturing base, and I have fought tirelessly against their unfair actions for the past decade. I have no reason to believe that Chinese actions through state-owned enterprises will be any less unfair. The only course of action we could take to express our concerns about this investment was to request to Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner that CFIUS fully investigate this joint venture. To that end, on July 2, 2010, we sent this request in a letter to Secretary Geithner with 50 signatures from Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus. Subsequently, on September 15, 2010, the Steel Development Company announced that they executed a joint venture agreement, where Anshan would invest in and become a fourteen percent partner of the Steel Development Company and become a member of the Board of Directors. Members of the Commission, we must ensure that American workers are able to compete on a level playing field. China has consistently demonstrated that they are not adhering to fair trading rules, that they are providing illegal subsidies to their industries, and that they are dumping their products on our shores. They have repeatedly shown their neglect in enforcing environmental and labor standards. They have blatantly ignored patent and copyright protections. Again, I do not believe that we should reward state-owned enterprises that have demonstrated such actions, and I assure you that I am committed to working to develop a way to transparently and fairly assess their investments. The American worker deserves no less. I deeply appreciate your attention and serious thought into this matter. I thank you for the opportunity to come before you today to share my views on this issue, and I would be happy to take any questions that you may have at this time. ###
02.14.2012	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky has joined 26 other Members of the House in a letter to President Obama that criticizes new duties levied on American-made vehicles sold in China. The unfair new duties make American-made cars less marketable in China and increase their sale price by up to an additional 34.4 percent. Existing taxes and duties can already add up to 25 percent to the cost of American-made vehicles. Visclosky said, “I have worked to publicize and correct our imbalanced trade relationship with China for years. The new antidumping and countervailing duty charges are further evidence of China’s exploitative and unfair trade relationship with the United States. The Chinese government actively cheats to prohibit American manufacturers from competing on a fair playing field. It is imperative that the United States takes a stand to defend our manufacturing sector on the international stage.” The letter urges the White House to work with the United States Trade Representative to initiate a dispute at the World Trade Organization to contest the recent duties. The letter also states that the new duties are unlikely to comply with the World Trade Organization Antidumping Agreement and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. Congressman Visclosky remains committed to establishing a level playing field for American manufacturing. Visclosky has a proven track record of defending American manufacturing from exploitative trade partners, having sponsored the American Steel First Act and the Fighting for American Jobs Act, and having cosponsored bills including the Free and Fair Trade Act and the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act in 2011. He has also testified numerous times in front of the U.S. International Trade Commission about maintaining fair trade, and has taken to the House floor to speak about Chinese currency manipulation. For the full text of this letter, click here.
02.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded grants to the Gary Human Relations Commission and the Hammond Human Relations Commission. These funds are awarded under the Fair Housing Assistance Program, and are intended to assist state and local agencies in their efforts to strengthen fair housing laws and expand community outreach. The Gary Human Relations Commission program will use the funds to work with the Gary Mayor’s Organization on Disabilities and Continuum of Care-Northwest Indiana/Indiana Planning Council on the Homeless to increase outreach and raise awareness of housing rights. Doris Carbins, Executive Director of the Gary Human Relations Commission said, “We are excited to work together with strategic partners at these organizations to reach more individuals in need. This grant will allow us to reach homeless, at-risk homeless, disabled individuals, and returning veterans in the community to let them know what their housing options are.” The grant awarded to the Hammond Human Relations Commission will go towards their education and outreach efforts with Women Against Violence; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals; persons with disabilities; and other underserved and special needs groups. Hammond Human Relations Commission’s Executive Director Lolita Weems said, “As a Fair Housing Assistance Program agency we are thankful and honored to have the opportunity to apply and receive the award. The funds are important to sustaining our commitment to educating the community through outreach and training in regards to fair housing.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I am pleased to see that these organizations are receiving the necessary funding to become more involved in providing housing to those who need it most. The Gary Human Relations Commission and the Hammond Human Relations Commission are vital to building stronger communities and I commend these organizations for their efforts.” The Gary Human Relations Commission will receive $44,820 and the Hammond Human Relations Commission will receive $75,000.
02.01.2012	Schererville, IN - Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Schererville Fire Department has been awarded federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Grants distributed under this program are designed to enhance the service that fire departments and emergency responders provide to their communities by improving operations and safety, facilitating vehicle purchase, or servicing departments across multiple jurisdictions. The $16,200 grant received by the Schererville Fire Department will improve operations and safety, allowing the department to purchase new personal protective equipment. Fire Chief Joe Kruzan said of the grant, “We’re very excited to receive this grant. We understand the grant process is becoming more and more competitive as budgets are being stretched across the country, and we’re extremely thankful for the opportunity to extend our budget through the FEMA program. We also appreciate the Congressman helping us with grants and grant announcements. Any time we can acquire equipment with outside funds, it does that much more for our local taxpayers, and we’re very thankful to be able to get this personal protective equipment to keep our people safe.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I am happy to announce this Assistance to Firefighters Grant for the Schererville Fire Department. Chief Kruzan and his department do exemplary work protecting their community, and I am pleased that they now have additional funds to improve on their already stellar record of service.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is run by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Since 2001, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program has given over $5 billion to fire departments and emergency responders. For more information about the program, visit https://www.fema.gov/firegrants/.
01.31.2012	Washington, D.C. – Senators Dan Coats (R-Ind.) and Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) and Congressmen Peter Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Mike Pence (R-Ind.) today responded to a study released by the Great Lakes Commission and the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative calling for the permanent separation of the Chicago Area Water System (CAWS) from the Great Lakes. The CAWS is the sole marine transportation route between the Gulf of Mexico and Lake Michigan. “Preventing the Asian carp from reaching Lake Michigan is a top priority, but closing the Chicago Area Water System is not the right course of action,” said Coats. “This drastic measure would punish Hoosier jobs and the ports of Indiana while negatively impacting the quality of life in Northwest Indiana. We must continue efforts to keep this invasive species out of the Great Lakes while protecting Indiana jobs and Hoosier families in the area." “While it is important that we work to keep Asian carp out of Lake Michigan, we must continue to protect the economic viability of Northwest Indiana,” said Lugar. “We also have to be mindful of the public cost of a solution. The closing of the Chicago Area Water System would disrupt the Hoosier economy and potentially devastate Northwest Indiana jobs. Efforts must be made to restrict the Asian carp from reaching Lake Michigan without the implementation of a physical barrier that would hurt our state and its workers.” “Asian carp pose a grave threat to the Great Lakes, and there is no question that we must continue to be proactive in finding a long-term and sustainable solution to this threat,” said Visclosky. “I remain committed to working with my colleagues from Indiana to ensure that a comprehensive solution is found that does not disproportionately affect the economy and people of Northwest Indiana.” "Asian carp represent a serious but manageable threat to the Great Lakes region, but permanently isolating the waterways of the Great Lakes from the Mississippi River is not the answer,” said Pence. “Closing the Chicago Area Water System would have a devastating effect on the Northwest Indiana economy. In 2011 alone, the Ports of Indiana handled more than 8 million tons of cargo. Therefore, we must continue to work to keep Asian carp out of the Great Lakes while protecting Hoosier jobs and families." Shipping along Indiana’s Lake Michigan shoreline contributes $14 billion per year in economic activity and 104,000 jobs. Large scale Indiana employers, in addition to many smaller companies, reliant on the CAWS include the BP Whiting Refinery, the Safety-Kleen Refinery, ArcelorMittal Steel Indiana Harbor, ArcelorMittal Steel Burns Harbor and U.S. Steel. Coats, Lugar, Visclosky and Pence introduced bicameral legislation last summer that would require the Army Corps of Engineers to work with federal, state and local agencies and stakeholders to prepare a comprehensive economic impact statement prior to any major federal action that could affect commercial activity in the CAWS. The legislation, which is supported by every member of the Indiana Congressional Delegation, ensures that the voice of Northwest Indiana is heard in the development of any plan that could impede economic development and the flow of commerce in the region.Click here for a copy of the legislation.
01.05.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced federal funding to fight flooding, promote economic development, and preserve our vital natural resources throughout Northwest Indiana. The Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreational Project is receiving $7,100,000, which will be used to continue construction components of this project, including hiking and biking trails and wetland restoration. In 2011, nearly 2,600 structures were removed from the flood plain designation. Once all associated construction activities are completed and the levees are certified, thousands of additional homes and business in Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster will no longer be required to carry flood insurance. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is receiving $172,000 to be used at the Port of Indiana-Burns Harbor for dredging and other operations and maintenance work to keep this vital economic engine running efficiently. The Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal Dispersal Barrier is receiving $23,584,000 to combat the spread of Asian carp into Lake Michigan and rest of the Great Lakes System. Asian carp are an invasive species that currently threaten the ecological integrity of parts of the Illinois and Mississippi River. Preventing Asian carp from entering Lake Michigan is a top priority for Congressman Visclosky and all of those who live around the Great Lakes, and this funding will play a major role in the ongoing effort to stop this dangerous species’ spread. Congressman Visclosky said, “I am pleased to see this much needed funding going to vital local infrastructure projects. These projects will provide jobs, protect our environment, and stimulate our local economy.” The funding is provided through the Army Corps of Engineers section of P.L. 112-74, the Fiscal Year 2012 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which was signed into law by the President on December 23, 2011. To read more about this law click here: https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d112:HR02055:|/home/LegislativeData.php|.
12.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – On December 19, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for Federal Circuit dealt a potentially major blow to trade sensitive American industries when it ruled that countervailing duties cannot be imposed in addition to antidumping duties against non-market economies. The case, GPX International Tire Corp. V. U.S., concerns Chinese tire imports, and carries implications for a number of products other than rubber. “This ruling strikes a terrible blow to domestic manufacturers and needlessly puts American jobs at risk,” said Rep. Tim Murphy, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “For our manufacturing sector to rebound, foreign governments cannot be allowed to cheat by giving generous state subsidies to exporters selling products in the U.S. I’ll continue working with like-minded lawmakers to make sure that we enact policies to prevent that from happening.” Congressional Steel Caucus Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky said “Striking down countervailing duty charges that offset foreign subsidies endangers American manufacturing jobs. Allowing unfairly subsidized, below-cost goods into U.S. markets undermines our manufacturing sector, and could cripple the recovery of America’s most important job creators, like steel.” In 2007 the U.S. Department of Commerce determined for the first time that it could levy countervailing duties on top of antidumping duties for non-market economies. Implementing countervailing duties has added protection for U.S. industry against subsidized goods from non-market countries. The case will be appealed and could be heard by the Supreme Court if the appeal is accepted. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of legislators representing the interests of American steel and steelworkers. Its 100 members fight for fair trade and in the past have voiced strong opposition to unequal trade practices in China and elsewhere. To view the Court’s ruling click here.
12.29.2011	Hammond, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that federal funding has been awarded to the Hammond Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Grants distributed under this program are designed to enhance the service fire departments and emergency responders provide to their communities by improving operations and safety, facilitating vehicle purchase, or as regional grants to departments servicing multiple jurisdictions. The grant received by the Hammond Fire Department will improve operations and safety. The award totals $30,700 and will be used for updating equipment, including the purchase of new hoses and nozzles. Battalion Chief of Support Services Bill Cook said of the program, “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program has been really beneficial for us in the Hammond Fire Department. It makes both our citizens and our firefighters safer. We are very grateful for the opportunity to apply, and for the award.” Congressman Visclosky said, “The dedicated firefighters of the Hammond Fire Department provide their community with exemplary assistance. I am pleased that they have received this grant, which will enhance public safety and will allow the department to procure the tools they need to better protect residents and themselves.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is run by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Since 2001, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program has given over $5 billion to fire departments and emergency responders. Approximately $380 million in grants have been awarded throughout 2011. For more information about the program, visit https://www.fema.gov/firegrants/.
12.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the January 2012 schedule for town forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. These 24 forums provide the opportunity for constituents and media to hear important updates for Northwest Indiana and share their views on the federal issues impacting the region.2012 Town Forum Schedule: Monday, January 9, 2012 10:00 AM Portage City Hall 6070 West Central Avenue Portage, Indiana 46368 12:00 PM Hobart City Hall 414 Main Street Hobart, Indiana 46342 2:00 PM Lake Station City Hall 1969 Central Avenue Lake Station, Indiana 46405 4:00 PM Westchester Public Library Library Service Center 100 West Indiana Avenue Chesterton, Indiana 46304 6:00 PM Porter County Commissioners’ Chambers 155 Indiana Avenue Room 205 Valparaiso, Indiana 46383Tuesday, January 10, 2012 10:00 AM Cedar Lake Fraternal Order of Eagles 13140 Lake Shore Drive Cedar Lake, Indiana 46303 12:00 PM Griffith Town Hall 111 North Broad Street Griffith, Indiana 46319 2:00 PM Gary YWCA 150 West 15th Avenue Gary, Indiana 46407 4:00 PM Dyer Town Hall One Town Square Dyer, Indiana 46311 6:00 PM Purdue University Calumet Student Union Library Building 2200 169th Street Hammond, Indiana 46323Wednesday, January 11, 2012 9:00 AM Robert A. Fase Education and Senior Center 11978 North 600 West Demotte, Indiana 46310 11:00 AM Hebron Library 201 West Sigler Street Hebron, Indiana 46341 2:30 PM EST* Benton County Library 102 North Van Buren Avenue Fowler, Indiana 47944 3:30 PM Rensselaer City Hall 122 South Van Rensselaer Street Rensselaer, Indiana 47978 6:00 PM American Legion Post 20 1401 North Main Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307Thursday, January 12, 2012 9:00 AM Munster Town Hall 1005 Ridge Road Munster, Indiana 46321 11:00 AM Hammond Main Library 564 State Street Hammond, Indiana 46320 1:00 PM Whiting City Hall 1443 119th Street Whiting, Indiana 46394 3:00 PM East Chicago City Hall 4625 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, Indiana 46312 5:00 PM Woodson Branch Library 501 South Lake Street Gary, Indiana 46403Friday, January 13, 2012 10:00 AM Newton County Municipal Government Center 4117 South 240 West Morocco, Indiana 47963 12:00 PM Lincoln Center 2450 Lincoln Street Room 108 and 109 Highland, Indiana 46322 2:00 PM Dyer-Schererville Branch Library 1001 West Lincoln Highway Schererville, Indiana 46375 4:00 PM Merrillville Town Hall 7820 Broadway Merrillville, Indiana 46410 *All times, unless otherwise noted, are Central Standard Time.
12.22.2011	Whiting, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for improved operations and safety programs for the Whiting Fire Department. The grant comes through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. According to Fire Chief Gus Danielides, funding from the grant will be used to purchase 20 new digital radios and their related accessories to meet mandatory requirements and national standards set by the Federal Communications Commission. “The Whiting Fire Department applied for this grant to improve our interoperable communications capabilities. This acquisition will help keep our firefighters safe, as well as enhance the Department’s capabilities to communicate with neighboring agencies to become more efficient in our daily operations,” said Chief Danielides. “I would like to sincerely thank Congressman Visclosky for his assistance in securing this award.” The AFG program aims to award grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. “I am pleased to see that the Whiting Fire Department was able to secure this funding to update their radio equipment,” Visclosky said. “These men and women put their lives on the line each and every day, which is why it is critical that they have the most up-to-date equipment to do their jobs safely and successfully.” This Fiscal Year 2011 Assistance to Firefighters Grant totals $22,436.
12.20.2011	Gary, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that federal funding has been awarded to Community HealthNet of Gary by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The award totals $191,356. The funding will ensure that HealthNet can continue to provide services, including comprehensive primary health services, such as immunizations, prenatal care, physicals, health checkups, and chronic disease management. Executive Director Janet Seabrook said the grant would allow HealthNet to “continue to advance services and increase access for the residents of Gary and Lake County.” Congressman Visclosky said, “I appreciate the efforts of HealthNet to procure this funding to continue to offer affordable and effective care to the residents of Gary and Northwest Indiana. I hope this funding will allow HealthNet to continue its good work offering service to all local citizens regardless of their ability to pay.” Community HealthNet of Gary runs the Gary Community Health Center, with a clinic based at Calumet High School and another in Merrillville. The Gary Community Health Center has served the Gary community since 1999.
12.09.2011	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled to extend existing anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on cut-to-length carbon steel on imports from India, Indonesia, and Korea for five years. The ITC determined that these imports will, "likely lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury within a foreseeable time." The ITC also ruled that existing duty orders against Japan and Italy should be sunset because those imports are unlikely to cause material injury. This decision coincides with a letter sent by Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18), Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (IN-01), and 23 cosigners on October 25, 2011, to the ITC urging it to maintain the duty orders against unfairly traded imports of cut-to-length carbon steel plate. The Caucus urged the ITC to uphold anti-dumping and countervailing duties to stop India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and Korea from sending dumped and government-subsidized carbon steel plate to the U.S. market, which has a real and detrimental effect on the American steel industry. Murphy said, “An economic recovery begins with a strong manufacturing sector that’s positioned to succeed and prosper. Unfortunately, foreign governments are doing everything they can to cheat and dump exports on our shores. Keeping these duties in place goes a long way toward building a free market where American steelmakers and their employees can compete on a level playing field.” Visclosky said, “I am pleased the International Trade Commission acknowledged that revoking the duty orders on Indian, Indonesian, and Korean plate would harm the domestic steel industry and its workers. However, I am disappointed with the Commission’s determination on Japanese and Italian plate. Going forward, my colleagues and I in the Congressional Steel Caucus will continue the fight to protect American made steel from getting undercut by below value products flooding our markets and hurting American workers. In order to remain a world leader, it is imperative we maintain a level playing field that will support a vibrant and growing manufacturing base, starting with American made steel.” The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress representing districts with steel manufacturers and the domestic steel supply chain. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. Cosigners of the letter to the ITC include: Reps. David McKinley (R-WV), Jo Bonner (R-AL), Walter Jones (R-NC), Carney, John (D-DE), Larry Kissell (D-NC), Mark Critz (D-PA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Dave Loesback (D-IA), Sue Myrick (R-NC), Jason Altmire (D-PA), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Bob Aderholt (R-AL), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Dennis Kucinich, (D-OH), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Nunnelee (R-MS), Gene Green (D-TX), Chip Cravaack (R-WI), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Mo Brooks (R-AL), and Steve Stivers (R-OH). Click here to see the ITC determination. Click here for the full text of the letter. Read more about the ITC hearing here.
12.07.2011	Valparaiso, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award to Valparaiso University Professor Gretchen Buggeln through the Fellowships for College Teachers and Independent Scholars program. The award, granted by the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), will be used to fund a project Professor Buggeln is currently working on entitled, “Churches for Today: Modernism and Suburban Expansion in Postwar America.” “I’m delighted that the NEH is supporting this project,” said Professor Gretchen Buggeln. “I look forward to finishing this book that will highlight the history and architecture of religion in the postwar Midwest.” “We are very pleased by the National Endowment for the Humanities’ recognition of Dr. Buggeln’s scholarship in what is an extremely competitive field,” said Mark A. Heckler, President, Valparaiso University. “Dr. Buggeln is respected internationally for her work on the relationship between architecture, faith and society. This grant recognizes a seminal exploration of the pivotal post-World War II period in U.S. religious history. We are grateful that the National Endowment for the Humanities continues to recognize and reward excellence in humanities scholarship. Dr. Buggeln epitomizes the high-caliber teacher-scholars who provide the University’s students with an outstanding educational experience.” Visclosky said, “I am pleased to hear that a professor at Valparaiso University has received funding through the National Endowment for the Humanities. The NEH is a key supporter of our educational institutions and because of this support, dedicated professionals, such as Professor Gretchen Buggeln, are able to undertake studies that enrich our understanding of America’s culture and history.” Professor Gretchen Buggeln is Valparaiso University’s Phyllis and Richard Duesenberg Chair in Christianity and the Arts and Associate Professor of Art History and Humanities. The award totals $50,400. More information regarding the award will be available at the NEH Award Abstracts database at https://www.neh.gov/news/recentawards.html
12.05.2011	East Chicago, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced federal funding has been awarded to East Chicago Community Health Center (ECCHC), by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The award, which totals $261,038, will be used towards a five year plan to further advance structural and programmatic changes to improve the overall quality of the center’s services and capabilities. “Our Board of Directors has made great strides over the past years to establish new guidance for the health center that will allow ECCHC to continue to provide quality healthcare to the underserved population in Northwest Indiana,” said Dwayne Mitchell, Chief Executive Officer of East Chicago Community Health Center. “We have developed a new strategic direction for the health center which will enhance our core services for the next 5 years.” Visclosky said, “I commend East Chicago Community Health Center and their efforts to secure funding which will help provide improved and affordable services for the East Chicago Community. I look forward to hearing about these programs and services that will continue to drive the Center’s success.” The East Chicago Community Health Center is a non-profit full service community health center. It was founded in 1996.
11.18.2011	Gary, IN – On Monday, November 21, 2011, the United States Postal Service (USPS) will be holding a public meeting regarding the consolidation of the Gary Processing and Distribution Center into a new location in Illinois. Earlier this year, a public meeting was held to discuss a USPS proposal to consolidate processing operations from the Gary Processing and Distribution Center into the South Bend Processing and Distribution Center. However, on September 15, 2011, USPS announced plans to conduct studies of approximately 250 processing facilities for possible consolidation or closure in coordination with a proposal to modify its service standards to increase average mail delivery time for First Class Mail from a 1-3 day window to a 2-3 day window. As the expanded study now includes a proposal to consolidate or close the South Bend Facility, USPS has now completed a second Area Mail Processing feasibility study, which supports the consolidation of the Gary Facility into the South Suburban Processing and Distribution Center in Illinois. This will decrease the reliability the Postal Service provides to citizens across the country, and will be most detrimental to the City of Gary and the greater Northwest Indiana community. The farther postal processing is moved from the populations it serves, the more mail efficiency and service will suffer. “Changes should not be made at the expense of its fundamental public duty. It is the United States Postal Service’s commitment to universal service, not shareholders, that makes it so uniquely valuable,” said Visclosky. “The Gary Facility processes over one million pieces of mail a day, playing a crucial role within the local economy. If the efficiency of the Postal Service is affected, our local businesses and families will be affected. We cannot afford to let our communities suffer in these already difficult economic times.” If you would like to voice your views on the proposal, please join Congressman Visclosky at the meeting, which will be held: Monday, November 21, 2011, at 7:00 PM at the West Side High School Theatre, 900 Gerry Street, Gary, Indiana 46406. If you are unable to attend the meeting, USPS will also be accepting written comments postmarked by December 6, 2011, which you can send to: Manager, Consumer and Industry Contact, Greater Indiana District, 3939 Vincennes Road, Indianapolis, IN 46298-9661.
11.18.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced federal funding has been awarded to Regional Mental Health, also known as Southlake Community Mental Health Center, Inc., to support the construction of low-income housing for persons with disabilities. The award, granted by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, will be used to construct a safe, affordable 15-unit apartment building located in Griffith, Indiana. The building will be constructed according to the federally recognized Enterprise Green Communities Initiative which includes environmentally sustainable materials, energy efficiency and green development standards. Regional Mental Health Center President Robert Krumwied stated, “This is a wonderful program in that it provides disabled individuals who have at one time been homeless, or have been living in substandard conditions, the opportunity to have clean, safe, affordable housing and also receive the services necessary to be able to live independently.” Visclosky said, “I commend Regional Mental Health’s efforts to secure funding that will provide disabled individuals a better quality of life through affordable housing and improved services. I hope others will look to Regional Mental Health’s example and follow their direction.” The award totals $2,553,100, which includes $159,900 in rental subsidies for tenants. Along with this federal award, Regional Mental Health will contribute an additional $741,892.
11.08.2011	Join 11 other representatives in writing letter to the Department of Defense Washington, DC – Late last week, Congressmen Joe Donnelly and Pete Visclosky joined 11 other U.S. Representatives in writing a letter to the Department of Defense (DOD) requesting that they consider utilizing the Great Lakes ports as waterborne cargo returns from Iraq. “As we complete our transition out of Iraq and continue efforts to increase jobs in our region, I joined my colleagues in writing this letter because the Great Lakes ports have the capacity for additional traffic,” Donnelly said. “Military cargo shipments to ports such as the Port of Indiana-Burns Harbor would be a welcome economic boost to Indiana and the Great Lakes region. We have the rail, road, and air transportation resources—in addition to an able workforce—available to transport the cargo once it arrives back on our shores.” "This is a perfect example of how the federal government can utilize one of the nation's greatest maritime resources to enhance economic opportunities in the Midwest and spur economic growth," Visclosky said. "Last year alone, shipping along Lake Michigan's shoreline generated $14 billion of economic activity and created 104,000 jobs, yet there is still capacity available. I am happy to join my colleagues in urging the Department of Defense to maximize its use of the Great Lakes and its very capable workforce." To read the letter to the Department of Defense, click here.
11.03.2011	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Pete Visclosky joined ninety-nine of his colleagues from both sides of the aisle in the U.S. House of Representatives to send a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (JSC). In the letter, the bipartisan group stressed the importance of the JSC succeeding in developing a plan for deficit reduction and requested that all options for mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues be on the table during discussions. The group also urged the JSC to reach a goal of $4 trillion in deficit reduction. Visclosky said, “I was happy to join so many of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in sending this letter to the Joint Select Committee. I believe it shows that there are a large number of us in Congress who can agree and who know how important the Committee’s success is to the future of our country. During discussions over the next few weeks, there should not be any options that aren’t carefully considered. We must look at everything in terms of both spending and revenue in order to ensure the best for our nation.” The JSC has until November 23, 2011 to make their recommendations for deficit reduction to Congress. Congress must then take an up-or-down vote on the recommendations by December 23, 2011.
11.02.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky took to the House floor to speak out against Chinese currency manipulation and to call for a House vote on the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 639). Similar legislation to H.R. 639 passed the Senate by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 63 to 35 on October 6, 2011. Click the image above to play video of Pete speaking on the House floor Pete’s full remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: I rise today to address the issue of Chinese currency manipulation. In Northwest Indiana, the steel industry provides middle class jobs and economic security. It supplies the products with which a strong economy can be built and a powerful national defense maintained. Economically, every job in the domestic steel sector creates approximately seven jobs in related industries. China understands the value of steel, and of a strong manufacturing base, and has aggressively acted to support and subsidize its domestic industries. For example, China has acted contrary to international trading standards in order to help their domestic manufacturers by routinely manipulating its currency in order to keep prices low on its finished products. As an effect, China’s steel production has more than doubled since 2003, while U.S. production has dropped by nearly 40 percent. We have also lost a third of our manufacturing jobs as China’s manufacturing sector continues to grow, nourished by that country’s blatant disregard of international law and the adverse consequences visited on other nations and people, most importantly, those who live and want to work in the United States. For example, it is estimated that China has devalued its currency anywhere between 12 and 50 percent, giving its own exports a government subsidy and, in effect, taxing American-made imports. This policy has cost the U.S. upwards of 2.5 million manufacturing jobs over the last decade and a staggering annual trade deficit of as much as $273 billion. The Chinese have dialogued for years about allowing their currency to appreciate, but have continued the practice of devaluing the Yuan. Our nation is facing a jobs crisis, and we can no longer afford to stand for this destructive policy. H.R. 639, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, would address the issue of currency manipulation by recognizing in law what we already know – that currency misalignment is an export subsidy. The measure would take commonsense steps to ensure our Treasury Department appropriately identifies countries that engage in this unfair policy, and allow the United States to place countervailing duties on imports from offending nations. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act has 230 cosponsors, more than enough to pass the House. In fact, just over a year ago, drawing on the support of American labor and manufacturing, the House expressed its intent to force China to allow the Yuan to reflect an exchange rate set by the open market. On September 23, 2010, the House approved the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 348 to 79. Unfortunately, the Senate did not act on this legislation. More than 260 of the Members who voted in favor of that measure remain in the House. But recently, on October 6, 2011, the other body did pass a similar measure by a bipartisan vote of 63 to 35, and it is time for the House to act to pass this bill. This is a bipartisan issue. I serve as Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus and I am proud to say that the one of the lead sponsors of H.R. 639 is Caucus Chairman, Representative Tim Murphy. This past May, the Steel Caucus held a hearing to examine the state of the steel industry. We heard from experts, just as we have in the past, that unfair trade policies, including currency manipulation, undercut the efforts of our domestic steel industry to create jobs. It is not surprising, then, that over eighty members of our Caucus, from both parties, have cosponsored this measure. We recognize how crucial this issue is for steel, for American manufacturing, and for job creation. Those who oppose efforts to punish China for its unfair trade policies insist this measure would start a so called “trade war.” But we are already in a war – a war for jobs – and we’re losing. China continues to fight to win the jobs war while America’s government dawdles. This cannot continue. According to a report by the Economic Policy Institute titled Unfair China Trade Costs Local Jobs, thanks to our trade imbalance with China, 2.4 million jobs were lost in the United States between 2001 and 2008, including 4,900 jobs from the First Congressional District of Indiana. The report also examines how Chinese currency manipulation has furthered this trade imbalance and contributed to America’s job loss, and how China has aggressively acquired U.S. dollars to further depress the value of its own currency. Specifically, China currently has about $2.5 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, of which about 70 percent are in U.S. dollars. Unfortunately, currency manipulation is far from the only trade-disrupting policy practiced by China. It has used a broad range of domestic subsidies, cheap loans, import barriers, and other policy tools to create and maintain employment in China while rendering middle class Americans unemployed. This summer, the New America Foundation convened a task force on job creation, co-chaired by Leo Gerard of United Steelworkers and Leo Hindrey of New America. The report they released further confirms the myriad of activities that China is engaged in that undermine American jobs. China employs a complex and far-reaching set of industrial and mercantilist policies. Environmental and labor rules we take for granted are rare to non-existent in China. China disregards intellectual property protections such as trademarks, copyrights and patents, and then steals technology from us and other countries around the world, at an annual cost of hundreds of billions of dollars. It does this, in part, by shamelessly forcing foreign companies to divulge intellectual property as the price for market access. Further, China uses State Secrets Laws to protect commercial interests and is pursuing a policy of, “indigenous innovation,” whereby it maneuvers to increase the domestic production of high value added goods, such as energy and high technology components. On top of this, it has restricted the export of rare earth minerals which are essential to the production of these products. What happens when U.S. companies stand up to China on these practices? They face harsh retaliation. China teaches a lesson to those who object to its discriminatory and injurious policies. After years of talking, I was glad to see the U.S. Trade Representative investigate and file information with the WTO regarding over 200 hundred undisclosed Chinese subsidy programs earlier this month. Although I commend the USTR for taking action, it is difficult to frame it as good news. China has been using these opaque subsidies for years and we are just now fighting back. While important, the Trade Representative’s action is not enough. The House must act on Chinese currency manipulation. I respectfully request the leadership of the House to bring a real jobs bill, H.R. 639, up for a vote. ###
10.28.2011	Urges ITC to Uphold Duty Orders on Unfairly Traded Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel PlateWashington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18), Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (IN-01), and 23 cosigners sent a letter to the U.S. International Trade Commission urging it to maintain the duty orders against unfairly traded imports of cut-to-length carbon steel plate. The Caucus urged the ITC to uphold anti-dumping and countervailing duties to stop India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and Korea from sending dumped and government-subsidized carbon steel plate to the U.S. market, which has a real and detrimental effect on the American steel industry. The order is scheduled to sunset at the end of this year. Imports of cut-to-length steel plate from these countries were less than 100,000 tons in 2010, a reduction of 90% from the year prior to the filing of the petitions. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties to level the playing field against unfair trade practices. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Commerce has already determined that if the orders are revoked, plate from these countries would again enter the United States at subsidized or dumped prices. U.S. industry producing cut-to-length steel plate originally filed antidumping and countervailing duty petitions against imports from these countries and France in February 1999 after imports of cut-to-length steel plate from these countries reached over 1 million tons in 1998. This is the second review of these orders, following a 2005 review in which the Commission voted to continue the orders against five countries and to sunset the order as to France. As stated in the letter, “As a result of the global economic recession, demand for cut-to-length steel plate dropped to historic lows in the United States and around the world… At the same time, plate producers in India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and Korea continue to increase production well in excess of demand and continue to add new capacity, resulting in significant oversupply and overcapacity in the world plate market. Given the current state of the domestic industry and the ability of these countries to send significant quantities of plate to the U.S. market, removing the existing trade orders would result in significant exports of plate to the United States and devastation to the domestic industry.” The Steel Caucus letter coincides with the ITC’s October 19th hearing on this very topic. At that hearing, witnesses from ArcelorMittal USA, Klockner Metals U.S., United Steelworkers of America, Nucor Tuscaloosa Production, and others testified about the need to continue the current duty orders. The ITC is expected to vote in early December 2011 to determine whether to sunset the orders or to continue orders for an additional five years. Visclosky said, “Especially in our current economic climate, we cannot afford to put our manufacturers at a further disadvantage by repealing necessary duties. By allowing foreign countries to flood the domestic marketplace with steel plate, we will devastate our American steel producers who are already struggling. The ITC must uphold the duty orders on cut-to-length carbon steel plate in order to protect our domestic steel manufacturers and the many jobs they create.” Murphy said, “With millions of Americans out of work, now is no time for the ITC to consider removing these duties. America’s steelmakers are the most productive and efficient in the world, but they can’t compete with state-subsidized foreign firms dumping substandard steel onto the market. Removing these duties would cost tens of thousands of jobs and weaken an industry so vital to our defense manufacturing base.” The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress representing districts with steel manufacturers and the domestic steel supply chain. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. Cosigners of the letter to the ITC include: Reps. David McKinley (R-WV), Jo Bonner (R-AL), Walter Jones (R-NC), Carney, John (D-DE), Larry Kissell (D-NC), Mark Critz (D-PA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Dave Loesback (D-IA), Sue Myrick (R-NC), Jason Altmire (D-PA), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Bob Aderholt (R-AL), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Dennis Kucinich, (D-OH), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Nunnelee (R-MS), Gene Green (D-TX), Chip Cravaack (R-WI), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Mo Brooks (R-AL), and Steve Stivers (R-OH). Read more about the ITC hearing here.
10.25.2011	Valparaiso, IN – Today, Congressman Visclosky announced that HealthLinc, Inc. of Valparaiso has been selected by the Department of Health and Human Services as one of 500 community health centers across the country that will receive a share of $42 million over the next three years to improve coordination and quality of care as part of the Advanced Primary Care Practice demonstration. Created by the Affordable Care Act, the Advanced Primary Care Practice demonstration will allow Medicare payments to be used for such things as helping patients manage chronic conditions, providing urgent care, and expanding service hours. “Health centers are integral parts of our communities,” said Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Donald M. Berwick, M.D. “This initiative will give participating health centers the help they need to improve care for many people with Medicare who rely on them as their main source of care.” The demonstration will allow CMS to assess the effects of paying a care coordination fee to community health centers, and the impacts that such a fee has on quality of care and in providing services that would normally be provided only in an advanced primary care practice. Visclosky said, “In many of our communities, community health centers are the main source of primary care. We need to make sure that we are supporting these health centers, and helping them to realize a higher quality of care. Not only will this demonstration program improve coordination and management at these centers, it will also ensure that Medicare dollars are spent more effectively. I congratulate HealthLinc on being chosen to participate in this program, and look forward to seeing its positive impact for our residents and Medicare beneficiaries.” Beth Wrobel, CEO of HealthLinc, said “HealthLinc is excited to be able to be part of this Medicare Advanced Primary Care Practice demonstration. We will show that when our older adult patients are provided primary care in a medical home setting, the results will be improved care and healthier patients at a reduced costs. This program is crucial to the baby boomers of Northwest Indiana who are moving towards becoming Medicare recipients. We appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s support of our efforts.” This trial will be conducted from November 1, 2011 through October 31, 2014. Participating health centers will be paid a monthly fee for each eligible person with Medicare that receives primary care services.
10.25.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky’s website has been named one of the best congressional websites by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) and given a 112th Congress Bronze Mouse Award for leading in design, transparency, and usefulness for constituents. CMF is a nonpartisan nonprofit organization that works to improve communications between citizens and Congress and enhance operations in Capitol Hill offices. CMF reviewers assessed 10 categories of criteria in awarding congressional websites: usability of website; timeliness of content; breadth and depth of information on issues; constituent services and casework information; promoting accountability to constituents; legislative process information; district/state information; floor proceedings information; availability of diverse forms of content; and availability of diverse forms of content channels. CMF reviewers also included social media components in the criteria. The criteria for website assessments has been developed and refined by CMF over the past decade based on survey research, focus groups with constituents, and interviews with key stakeholders to congressional offices. “Congressman Visclosky is to be commended for educating citizens and achieving the highest degree of transparency and accountability in online communications,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of CMF. “In the 21st Century, a website is much more than a broadcasting tool for a political message - it's a virtual office and a window into our democratic institutions. These winners of the Platinum, Gold, Silver, and Bronze Mouse Awards understand the value of using the Internet to enlighten and serve constituents, and are examples for all congressional offices to follow.” Congressman Visclosky’s website, www.visclosky.house.gov, strives to provide the constituents of the First District with the most up-to-date information regarding the Congressman’s stance on issues and legislation, and the services that the office provides. Visit the website to read up on the work of Congress, to set up tours in Washington, D.C., to get help with a federal agency, to contact the Congressman or request a meeting, and much more.
10.20.2011	Lake Station, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky attended a ribbon cutting for the City Hall and Police Station complex in Lake Station. This new complex is state-of-the art using environmentally friendly and energy efficient technology. Recently, it won a Community Achievement Award at the 35th Annual Indiana Association of Cities and Towns Conference that took place in Indianapolis earlier this month. Congressman Visclosky said, “I applaud Mayor Soderquist for his hard work on this project and for helping to lead the way in clean energy technology. From Geothermal heating and air conditioning to rain gardens, the features on this building are really amazing. This new complex has set the bar for future energy-efficient construction, and I hope that the rest of Indiana will take notice and follow in Lake Station’s example.” Mayor Soderquist said, “This is truly an exciting time for Lake Station. After decades of planning, we now will be the most efficient government complex in the state and possibly in the Midwest. It is a great feeling to know that Lake Station is a true leader in using the most efficient technologies available and improving the quality of life for all Lake Station residents.”
10.19.2011	Highland, IN – Today, Congressman Visclosky hosted a briefing for the residents of Hammond and Highland to provide them with more information about the recent removal of thousands of homes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designated Special Flood Hazard Zone. This removal occurred thanks to the hard work of Hammond Mayor McDermott and the Highland Town Council, who were able to secure a Letter of Map Revision from FEMA reevaluating the flood hazard zone following the construction of a new levee. Congressman Visclosky brought together representatives from FEMA, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, the National Flood Insurance Program, the City of Hammond, and the Town of Highland. The program included remarks by North Township Trustee Frank Mrvan and Hammond Mayor Tom McDermott, Jr. Congressman Visclosky said, “I applaud the efforts undertaken by Hammond, Highland, the Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, the Regional Development Authority, state and local governments, concerned community organizations, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to get the new levee built and to work to see that these residents were removed from the flood hazard zone. Furthermore, I am grateful to share this opportunity with FEMA to educate the affected residents. Through their hard work and dedication, the citizens of Hammond and Highland will be safer, and will reap the economic benefits of no longer being part of the flood hazard zone.” Mayor McDermott of Hammond said, “With the assistance of Congressman Visclosky, we have been able to remove approximately 1,000 homes and businesses from the floodplain. By doing so, we are able to save these property owners an average of $500-1,000 annually. In addition, the change in flood zone status represents the culmination of our joint efforts to protect our residents from the danger and damage that might occur during a flood.” Michael Griffin, Clerk-Treasurer to the Town of Highland, remarked, “I know that the Highland Town Council joins me in commending Congressman Visclosky's leadership and advocacy that brought us to this long sought moment. We commend the Congressman and all the hands — the US. Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA among them — that advanced the flood map zone revision. For 1,600 Highland families and their homes, this effort has not only provided greater flood protection but notable financial relief by reducing the considerable cost of flood insurance to these residents.” Residents from Hammond, Highland, and Munster turned out to today’s event, held at the Wicker Park Social Center in Highland from 5:00PM – 7:00PM. If you were unable to attend the event, please visit www.visclosky.house.gov to see the presentation.
10.19.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Visclosky is getting the word out to seniors that the Social Security Administration announced today that there will be a 3.6 percent Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) to Social Security benefits in 2012. The COLA is calculated based on inflation using the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). This is the first COLA since 2009. There was no COLA in 2010 and 2011 because the CPI-W, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the Department of Labor, did not increase for those years. The nearly 55 million Social Securtiy beneficiaries across the nation – including the 130,112 in Indiana’s 1st district – will begin seeing this COLA in January 2012. The more than 8 million Social Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries will see the adjustment beginning December 30, 2011. For more information on COLAs and how this could affect you, visit socialsecurity.gov/cola or call Congressman Visclosky’s office at (219)795-1844.
10.19.2011	Munster, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky attended a groundbreaking ceremony for the Munster gas-to-energy project. This project will help generate revenue for the Town of Munster by capturing methane gas from the former landfill site and converting that gas to electricity that the Town will sell back to NIPSCO. Congressman Pete Visclosky said, “The Munster gas-to-energy project is a prime example of the type of innovative approach we should take to help our local economies remain competitive and create new jobs while addressing larger energy and environment issues. I commend Town Manager Tom DeGiulio and the entire Town Council for their work in getting this project off the ground. I am hopeful that it will serve as an example for communities across Northwest Indiana as the type of idea that will both get our citizens back to work and keep us moving forward as a region and a nation.” The Town of Munster has paired up with Indiana company Energy Systems Group on this project. Munster Town Manager Tom DeGiulio said, “The Town has long recognized the resource that could be created as a byproduct of the closure of the Munster Landfill. We understood that this project had significant potential impact and, therefore, included it in our long range planning process. It was Congressman Visclosky’s direction and support that made this project move from concept to reality. Without the federal support, this project would not have been economically viable for the Town. These funds allow us to broaden the positive environmental impact of Centennial Park; a project that is already LEED Silver certified.” Congressman Visclosky helped to secure Department of Energy funds to cover fifty percent of the project costs.
10.19.2011	Crown Point, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky attended a groundbreaking ceremony for a water infrastructure project in Crown Point. This funding was made available under the Calumet Region Environmental Infrastructure account authorized under the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Congressman Pete Visclosky said, “I commend Mayor Uran, the City of Crown Point, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for their efforts to create good jobs while improving our local infrastructure. Not only will this project meet the needs of the city by improving water quality through sewer and storm drain enhancements, but it will also help to meet the needs of our region through job creation. This project is an example of funding working to support jobs and infrastructure while improving our future opportunities for economic development.” Mayor Uran said, “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his efforts in obtaining funding for a substantial portion of this project. He continuously advocates for our community. I am very happy to see this project commence, as this roadway and infrastructure are in need of substantial repair. I would also like to thank the residents along West Street for their patience and understanding as we prepare for this major project to begin.” Congressman Visclosky secured $1.6 million for this project. The funding will be used to install storm sewers, replace water main and sanitary sewer lines, and reconstruct pavement along West Street from approximately the West and Robinson Streets intersection to the Anderson and West Streets intersection. “The Army Corps of Engineers is pleased to be a part of a team working to provide improvements that will alleviate flooding currently caused by typical rainfall events,” said Deputy District Engineer Lieutenant Colonel David Berczek. “The waterline replacement and upgrades will ensure that Crown Point residents have a reliable water supply.”
10.14.2011	Highland, IN – On Wednesday, October 19, 2011, Congressman Pete Visclosky will host an informational briefing regarding the recent removal of areas in Hammond and Highland from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designated Special Flood Hazard Zone. FEMA Flood Hazard Zone Briefing Wednesday, October 19, 2011 5:00 PM CST Location: Wicker Park Social Center 8554 Indianapolis Boulevard, Highland, Indiana 46322 Thanks to the efforts undertaken by Hammond, Highland, the Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, state and local governments, concerned community organizations, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the newly completed sections of levees within these communities now meet flood protection standards. This allowed municipal officials the opportunity to request that FEMA reevaluate areas that were once considered part of the Special Flood Hazard Zone. For residents living in the affected neighborhoods between Northcote Avenue and Cline Avenue in Hammond and Indianapolis Boulevard and Cline Avenue in Highland, this change means that they may no longer be subject to a Federal mandatory flood insurance requirement, or that they may see a significant reduction in their insurance rates. In order to answer any questions residents may have regarding this change, Congressman Visclosky is hosting an event where representatives from FEMA will be present to provide further information and explanation. For more information about this event, please visit www.visclosky.house.gov or call 219-795-1844.
10.12.2011	Gary, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers recently awarded a construction contract of $867,775 for ecosystem restoration for the Calumet Prairie and Ivanhoe South project in Gary, Indiana. Calumet Prairie and Ivanhoe South are essential to the Great Lakes ecosystem because they provide habitat to a number of endangered, threatened, and rare species, and play a key part in the migratory pattern for a number of bird species. The restoration process of Calumet Prairie and Ivanhoe South, which consists of 198-acres, will begin this year. To restore these areas, non-native trees and shrubs will be removed through prescribed burns and be replaced with native species. Congressman Visclosky said, “I am pleased to see additional federal support for the efforts made to restore a healthy ecosystem along the Great Lakes. By protecting our natural resources, we are enabling our native species to thrive, while also providing educational and recreational benefits to our community.” Funding for this project is provided by the Environment Protection Agency’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI).
10.11.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released the following statement ahead of this week’s House votes on the Free Trade Agreements with Colombia, Korea, and Panama: “Given the tragic number of Americans who are unemployed, it is essential that Congress have a singular focus of promoting American workers and creating American jobs. I believe the Free Trade Agreements that we are considering in the House this week will only exacerbate our unemployment crisis. These agreements will further undermine America’s manufacturing sector and allow the continued hemorrhaging of our jobs to foreign countries. “If these agreements are such good economic policy, then I do not understand why we need to pass a job-training bill for all of the American workers who will be displaced as a result of these agreements. Instead, we should be passing legislation to rebuild America’s economic infrastructure using American workers and goods and products made in the United States.”
10.07.2011	Gary, IN – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has allocated $1 million towards the ongoing restoration of Marquette Park in Gary, Indiana. The award comes from the EPA’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) Challenge which is funding projects in the Great Lakes basin that will produce significant ecological benefits and measurable results in areas identified as federal priorities. “This investment and others will help fulfill our commitment for a new Great Lakes standard of care: our work is no longer about limiting damage and minimizing harm to the ecosystem. It is about proactively working to make the Great Lakes healthier for the next generation,” said Cameron Davis, the EPA’s Senior Advisor on the Great Lakes. “Each project we’re announcing will produce immediate, direct ecological benefits and will help to put unemployed people back to work.” The local GLRI Challenge award will focus on dredging the Marquette Park Lagoon and is part of an ongoing $28 million restoration process of the park led by the Regional Development Authority (RDA) and the City of Gary. Today’s $1 million investment by the EPA will put at least twenty unemployed people back to work. Visclosky said, “I applaud the EPA for recognizing the work of the City of Gary and the RDA at Marquette Park, and making this investment to help complete the project. Preserving our precious natural resources along Marquette Park and across the Great Lakes will help maintain a healthy ecological system and create more good jobs, providing a better quality of life in Northwest Indiana and building a better future for our region.” City of Gary Mayor Rudy Clay stated, “The funding from the EPA will assist greatly with our implementation of the Marquette Park East Lakefront Project. We are already making great strides towards the park’s revitalization and rebirth through funding awarded by the RDA. With assistance from the U.S. EPA, the City and the RDA are able to leverage existing park funding. We commend Congressman Visclosky on this win and thank him for his efforts that support Gary, Indiana”. RDA Executive Director Bill Hanna said, “This additional investment in the $28 million dollar Marquette Park project will enable us to get to our objectives more rapidly and continue to create job opportunities for Northwest Indiana. We appreciate the support and recognition of value in these projects by the EPA and Congressman Pete Visclosky. Congressman Visclosky has been a tremendous partner and has worked tirelessly to find the resources to get shovels in the ground. You really have to see what's happening to believe it. It is truly transformational.”
09.28.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Portage and Cedar Lake Police Departments will each receive grants through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring program. The COPS Hiring program provides funding to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire, preserve, or rehire officers in an effort to increase policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. Both police departments will be hiring officers as a result of today’s funding. Visclosky said, “Today’s COPS grants will deliver the best thing that federal support can provide right now, and that’s jobs. I applaud the Portage and Cedar Lake Police Departments for their efforts in securing these grants, which will directly benefit the local communities by improving policing capabilities and further increasing safety and security.” Portage Police Chief Mark Becker remarked, “Throughout the nation, public safety personnel face the challenge of dealing with increasing threats to their communities with limited manpower resources. As such, we must explore new and innovative approaches to ensure the safety of our community. Utilizing grants to accomplish and pursue those concepts with federal funds is a very competitive process. We are very appreciative of Congressman Visclosky’s efforts in aligning Portage in a position to utilize federal COPS grant money to hire additional officers.” Chief Becker goes on to say, “With the approval of our city council, this grant would provide federal funds totaling $542,520 to cover the salary and benefits for up to three officers over the next three years. As we have outlined in our COPS application, it is our vision that these funds would assist in our community policing efforts, which could include an additional school resource officer, drug interdiction personnel and more officers assigned to patrol in support of those endeavors.” Cedar Lake Police Chief Roger Patz said, “Our Department has been struggling for years with the inability to add additional police officer positions, even though our community has grown substantially. With the help and support of Congressman Pete Visclosky, we have overcome the odds and our Town will soon be a little safer. We hope that in a matter of weeks, we will add a new police officer position. This is great news not only for our police department, but also for the people we serve!” The Portage Police Department will receive $542,520. The Cedar Lake Police Department will receive $227,143. The COPS grants will cover full salary and benefits packages for the hired officers for the next three years. To apply for COPS funding in the future, check www.cops.usdoj.gov for award opportunities.
09.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award to Valparaiso University for a research program in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. The award, granted by the National Science Foundation (NSF), will be used to fund an undergraduate research project in the field of astronomy under the direction of Dr. Todd Hillwig. The project is entitled “An Observational Exploration of the Late Stages of Close Binary Star Evolution in Low to Intermediate Mass Stars.” “We are very pleased to receive this grant from the National Science Foundation,” said President Mark A. Heckler of Valparaiso University. “Not only will this research advance our understanding of supernovas and related areas, but the research itself will involve Valparaiso University's undergraduates, working alongside our distinguished faculty members. We appreciate this recognition of our capabilities to conduct outstanding research and provide exceptional educational opportunities for our students.” Visclosky said, “I am very pleased to see that Valparaiso University has again been provided federal assistance through the National Science Foundation. Through the support of the NSF, Valparaiso students can continue to remain at the forefront of science by further studying an area within astronomy where there is much to be discovered.” The award will be effective October 1, 2011. The award totals $212,349. More information regarding the award will be available at the NSF Award Abstracts database at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1109683.
09.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration has awarded a Susan Hardwood Training Grant to the Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana, Inc. (CAF). The Susan Harwood Training Grant Program supports hands-on training for vulnerable workers, including those in industries with high injury rates or those who are young or have limited English proficiency or low literacy rates, as well as for small businesses. Dewey Pearman, Executive Director of CAF said, “This grant will help ensure that skilled craft construction workers in Northwest Indiana continue to work under the safest possible conditions. The training provided under the grant reflects the commitment area contractors, their employees and project owners have to job site safety. We very much appreciate the support of Congressman Visclosky’s office in helping secure this grant.” CAF is a seven county Northwest Indiana trade association representing over 500 contractors working in the commercial, industrial, public works and institutional construction markets in the region. Last year, CAF received a similar grant that allowed for them to provide safety training to workers in petroleum and chemical industries. This year’s grant will expand their training classes for contractors and craft workers, and allow CAF to train upwards of 700 people. Visclosky said, “Supporting our workers does not only mean ensuring our economy is strong or that there are enough jobs, but also that workers have the adequate safety training for their chosen industries. Time and again we are reminded of the hazards of inadequate training and onsite safety. Providing the support necessary to see to it that our country’s workers have the best available tools for all scenarios will save lives and prevent disaster.” The grant award totals $109,219.
09.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky salutes four local students, Jonathan Jackson, Jared Smoot, Scott Steggerda, and Matthew Spretnjak, who recently began their first year at their respective service academies. Acceptance to one of the nation’s service academies is a long and intense process that requires candidates to meet a multitude of general standards of admission. This includes standards regarding character, scholarship, leadership, motivation, physical aptitude, and whole-person evaluation. Spots within the program are very limited. “I congratulate these local students for meeting the rigorous standards for admission into our nation’s service academies,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Not only do these students each possess strength of character, strong academic records, and the necessary physical abilities, they are all dedicating these gifts to serving our country. I commend them, and wish them the very best in their future endeavors.” Jonathan Jackson of Schererville, Indiana, was accepted to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Jonathan was top ten of his graduating class at Illiana Christian High School. He was a member of the National Honor Society, Drama Club, and Church Club. He also played tennis. Jared Smoot of Crown Point, Indiana, was accepted to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Jared was a graduate of Crown Point High School. He was an accomplished athlete in basketball and a member of the Crown Point High School Choir. Scott Steggerda of Valparaiso, Indiana, was accepted to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. Scott was a graduate of Valparaiso High School. He was a member of National Honor Society, as well as participated in football and track. Matthew Spretnjak of Highland, Indiana, was accepted to the U.S. Air Force Academy. The academy is located in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Matthew was top ten in his graduating class at Highland High School and is a recipient of the Air Force Academy Falcon Foundation Scholarship at Northwestern Preparatory School. He was very active in sports, playing football and baseball, and wrestling. Furthermore, he is a member of the National Honor Society and the National Japanese Honor Society. Each year Congressman Visclosky has the privilege to recommend a select few of Northwest Indiana's best high school graduates for admission to the nation's service academies. When applying for a nomination, an applicant must apply to both the respective academy and through Congressman Visclosky’s congressional office. The deadline for filing with Congressman Visclosky’s office for admission to the academies in the 2012-2013 school year is October 28, 2011, at 5:00 P.M. EST, so it is important to fill out a Pre-Candidate Questionnaire for the respective academy as soon as possible. If you would like to learn more about these service academies, or for more information regarding the application process, please visit Congressman Visclosky’s website, or call Congressman Visclosky’s office at 219-795-1844.
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18), Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (IN-01), and 31 cosigners today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta regarding the procurement of armor steel plate used in military vehicles. The Caucus urged the Department of Defense (DoD) to revise its definition of “produced” to include the melt stage, so that the DoD cannot use armor steel plates melted in other countries. In 2009, the DoD’s definition of steel “produced” in America opened up the use of armor steel plate that is melted in foreign countries. Last year, the Steel Caucus sent a letter to then-Secretary Robert Gates urging the DoD to reassess this regulation, and to adhere to the 35-year precedent that requires melting for armor steel plate occur in the United States. The Department is currently accepting public comment on this regulation, and the Steel Caucus letter is in response to this request. As stated in the letter, “The current definition threatens this country’s defense industrial base by increasing our reliance on foreign suppliers and does so at the expense of domestic workers.” “The manufacturing industry is the backbone of our country; the United States government should be the first in line to support and promote our American steel producers.” said Visclosky. “Further, this issue is one of national security – only American-made steel should be used in the protection of our troops and the defense of our nation. I urge the Department of Defense to reevaluate its definition of ‘produced’ and help ensure the security of our troops.” “Our letter makes clear that the Defense Department must follow the law, and purchase steel that’s melted in America. Doing so ensures our industrial base is vibrant and ready to respond in defense of our nation during a time of war,” said Murphy. “But just as important, buying steel made in America ensures our troops are protected with armor that’s not only well-built, but absolutely flawless. The Pentagon shouldn’t take shortcuts on safety by importing foreign-made products when there’s ample domestic capacity to produce steel armor plate.” Congressmen Murphy and Visclosky have a long history of supporting the American steel industry. Most recently, they introduced the American Steel First Act (H.R. 1703), to require the Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Homeland Security to use only steel and iron made in America in any of these departments’ projects. In the last Congress they were instrumental in ensuring Buy America provisions were added to major infrastructure funding bills. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress representing districts with steel manufacturers and the domestic steel supply chain. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. Cosigners of the letter to Secretary Panetta include: Murphy (R-PA), Altmire (D-PA), Critz (D-PA), Visclosky (D-NJ), Lipinski (D-IL), Holden (D-PA), Carson (D-IN), Kaptur (D-OH), Kissell (D-NC), Doyle (D-PA), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Brooks (R-AL), Harper (R-MS), Jones (R-NC), Reed (R-NY), Myrick (R-NC), Franks (R-AZ), Wilson (R-SC), Butterfield (D-NC), Crawford (R-AR), McKinley (R-WV), Rahall (D-WV), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Craavack (R-MN), Stivers (R-OH), Sewell (D-AL), Aderholt (R-AL), Lynch (D-MA), Kucinich (D-OH), Kinzinger (R-IL), McCotter (R-MI), Kildee (D-MI) and Capito (R-WV).
09.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced two local schools as recipients of the 2011 National Blue Ribbon awards: the Dwight D. Eisenhower Elementary School of Crown Point and the Benjamin Banneker Achievement Center of Gary. The national announcement was made today by Secretary Arne Duncan of the U.S. Department of Education, who stated that over 300 public and private schools across the country have earned this esteemed award. The Blue Ribbon award is only given to public and private elementary, middle, and high schools with stellar academic performances or those that have demonstrated considerable progress in closing the achievement gap, particularly among disadvantaged or minority students. Congressman Visclosky stated, “I am so pleased that our local schools are being recognized for their hard work and achievement over the years. The Blue Ribbon awards give us the opportunity to see the types of initiatives that are working for our schools, and allow us to expand upon those in order to strengthen our entire education system. I commend the Dwight D. Eisenhower Elementary School and the Benjamin Banneker Achievement Center for acting as models for both our region and the country.” Principal Sarah Givens of Benjamin Banneker Achievement Center remarked, “Receiving this award and recognition is a dream come true. Truly, there is much excitement in our school community. We owe a great deal of thanks to the Gary Community School Board, our devoted parents, our hardworking students, our dedicated staff and the prayers of Pastors Cedric and Joyce Oliver. Our school is proud to serve as a model for other schools throughout the nation. We are truly humbled and grateful for this unprecedented honor and recognition.” Principal Mary Ann Chapko of Dwight D. Eisenhower Elementary School said, “Receiving Blue Ribbon School status is the culmination of a long journey for our school community. As principal of Dwight D. Eisenhower Elementary School for the past fifteen years, my team and I have consistently worked together to meet the individual needs of each student. Our data shows steady growth over the years, to the point of reaching a 98 percent passing rate on ISTEP+ testing school wide in 2011. Our dream of receiving this national award was made possible by the unique partnership of teachers, staff, parents, students, and administration all working in seamless unison to ensure success at all levels.” The school principals, along with one teacher from each school, will be invited to attend the award ceremony in Washington, D.C. on November 14th and 15th.
09.13.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is awarding federal assistance to the Gary/Chicago International Airport to support key infrastructure improvements that will improve airport drainage. Airport Director Steve Landry said, “On behalf of the Gary/Chicago International Airport Authority, I'd like to thank Representative Visclosky for his continued support and tireless efforts with regard to the Airport. While recent focus has been on the runway expansion program, this grant will allow the Airport to make improvements to its current configuration and sustain a high level of service to our users. Specifically, the drainage improvements will alleviate water ponding in vicinity of the runway, thereby enhancing our safety programs and preventing damage to our airfield lighting systems.” Visclosky said, “Today’s grant award will allow the Gary/Chicago International Airport to greatly improve the safety of its operations by eliminating water ponding on its runways. By making such investments in our infrastructure, we can put our construction industry back to work and support our economic recovery. The Gary/Chicago International Airport really has the potential to be an economic engine for our region. I thank the Airport Authority and the Regional Development Authority for their tireless work to advance the airport.” The grant award totals $266,000.
09.09.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is awarding federal assistance to the Griffith-Merrillville Airport for the environmental mitigation necessary to continue construction. Airport Manager Craig Anderson said, “This grant will be used for the mitigation of wetlands associated with the construction of a new parallel taxiway, thereby increasing the safety and utilization of the airport tremendously.” Visclosky said, “It is vital that we invest in and maintain our local transportation infrastructure. These funds will allow the Griffith-Merrillville Airport to enhance its facility and by making the airport a safer place to operate, we can attract more activity to the airport that will result in new economic activity for the surrounding communities.” The grant award totals $125,400.
09.09.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Lowell and Munster Police Departments will each receive grants through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Secure Our Schools program. The Secure Our Schools grant program provides funding to state and local governments to assist in the development and improvement of school safety. Visclosky said, “Our children spend nearly as much time at school as they do at home, and we need to ensure that they are just as safe there. The Secure Our Schools grants will help the police departments of Lowell and Munster maintain the security of local schools and increase their efficiency in responding to a call.” Recipients will be able to use these funds to establish school safety programs, put in place violence deterrence measures, purchase safety equipment, and develop innovative policies to enhance the security of schools. Lowell Police Chief John Shelhart remarked, “The Lowell Police Department is extremely delighted to receive notification of the award of the Secure Our Schools grant for $65,746. The Lowell Police Department, Tri-Creek School Corporation and the community of Lowell would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his invaluable assistance in securing this grant funding.” Munster Police Chief Stephen Schekel said, “The Munster Police Department, as well as the School Town of Munster, gratefully accepts the Secure Our Schools, COPS Grant award. This grant will offer us the opportunity to upgrade and improve existing video surveillance throughout the Munster School system. As a result, the Police Department will have the capabilities of viewing critical incidents, on station as well as in the officers' squad cars, prior to the officers arriving on scene. This will enable officers to more effectively respond to critical incidents, securing the safety of the students as well as the officers. The Munster Police Department looks forward to working with the School Town of Munster in securing our schools and providing a safer environment for our children.” The Lowell Police Department will receive $65,746. The Munster Police Department will receive $56,997.
09.02.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that Lake County will receive two federal grant awards through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and HOME program, respectively. Visclosky said, “The CDBG and HOME programs are critical to the Northwest Indiana region and to Lake County’s efforts to improve municipal infrastructure and provide affordable housing options to our local families. These funds will help provide residents with decent housing, increase the development opportunities of our region, and assist in our economic recovery.” The Community Development Block Grant program allows state and local government to develop urban communities by providing housing and economic opportunities for low to moderate income persons. The HOME program provides grants to state and local governments to help fund housing programs in order to increase the number of affordable housing units available to low to moderate income families. Milan Grozdanich, Director of the Lake County Community Economic Development Department, commented “The Lake County Community Economic Development Department is pleased to be notified by Congressman Pete Visclosky of the award of FY2011 CDBG and HOME grants to Lake County through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. As one of two Urban County grantees in Indiana, we use these grants to provide funding annually to eight of the sixteen small cities and towns in Lake County for infrastructure-related projects, and offer a number of housing programs throughout our covered area for low to moderate income persons. Often, we are the last resort for assistance to senior citizens for rehabilitation of their homes to enable them to age in place. The Congressman’s continued support of these worthwhile activities is greatly appreciated.” Lake County will receive $1,204,148 in CDBG funds, and $600,204 in HOME funds.
08.25.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Pete Visclosky congratulates all those involved on yesterday’s groundbreaking of the new Residences at Deer Creek, Schererville, Indiana’s first senior living community. Set on 2.4 acres, the Residences will be made up of eighty-six private living units as well as a memory care facility. The facility, which is the brainchild of a group of physician-owners, will respond to the increasing demand for supportive living services for older adults throughout the area, while also putting a unique focus on cognitive care and rehabilitation. Additionally, because the facility will be physician-owned, it will provide residents with access to specialists in geriatrics, cardiology, oncology, neurology, internal medicine, and orthopedics, among others. Dr. Prakash Makam, one of the physician-owners on the project, remarked, “I work with patients everyday who ask for my recommendation as to where to go for quality assisted living healthcare services. By partnering with fellow local physicians to develop the Residences at Deer Creek, we are finally able to give back to the community and meet our patients special assisted living and memory support healthcare needs in a state-of-the-art home-like environment.” Congressman Visclosky commented, “I commend Dr. Makam and the rest of the physician-owners who have worked diligently to put in place the plan for the Residences at Deer Creek. Their vision will provide our local seniors with affordable assisted living, the highest quality of care, and the latest advances in memory rehabilitation. It is exactly this type of innovation and dedication that will continue to make the biggest positive impact on our communities.” The facility is expected to employ fifty to sixty staffers, and will also have a neurologist on staff for the memory care unit. The Residences are scheduled to open in October of 2012.
08.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is awarding a second installment of federal assistance to the Porter County Regional Airport for airport improvement efforts. Airport Director Kyle J. Kuebler said, “Proceeds from this grant award regarding the reimbursement of the Airport Master Plan will help allow the airport to bring elements from within the Master Plan from concept to construction. The Airport Master Plan will help guide the development of the airport for the next twenty years, and addresses the programs necessary to maintain the airport's ability to be an aviation asset for our region.” Director Kuebler continued, “Proceeds from this Grant Award associated with Airfield Marking allowed the airport to address new FAA Standards for required Enhanced Taxiway Markings, and Surface Painted Hold Signs, on all of the airport's taxiway system, as well as the enhanced safety that was afforded in the needed remarking of its two runways.” Visclosky said, “Investing in our local infrastructure is essential to the safety of our citizens and the vitality of our economy, and today’s grant award will allow us to make great improvements in both these areas. These funds will provide the Porter County Regional Airport with the support it needs to complete elements of its Master Plan – a plan that will ensure the airport remains an engine of ingenuity and economic development in our region for many decades to come.” The grant award totals $127,500.
08.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today an award made to Valparaiso University for an undergraduate program, under the direction of Gary Morris. This program, "Mathematics and Science Education Enrollment and Development (MSEED) Program,” allows Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematic (STEM) graduates to earn a bachelor’s degree in science or mathematics, as well as a teacher licensure within four years. Valparaiso University President Mark A. Heckler said, “On behalf of Valparaiso University, I would like to express our appreciation of Congressman Visclosky’s support of the work our faculty and students will undertake as part of our National Science Foundation grant, the Mathematics and Science Education Enrollment and Development (MSEED) Program. This grant will help Valparaiso University develop the next generation of teachers in mathematics and science who, in turn, will play a critical role in the development of future scientists and engineers in our country. This investment in mathematics and science teacher training is a critical step toward sustained economic vitality and job creation in our region and nation. It is imperative if the United States is to maintain a competitive edge in an ever-evolving global marketplace.” “The MSEED grant will enable Valparaiso University to offer an innovative 4-year program that provides graduates with both a Bachelor of Science degree and teacher licensure in the mathematics or science field of their choice. The program is designed to give students intensive hands-on experience year-round, including paid summer internships. We believe this novel approach will help meet the nation’s need for science and mathematics teachers and result in more students pursuing advanced degrees in mathematics and science to fill the high-tech jobs of the 21st century. We are very proud to receive this grant from the National Science Foundation, and we thank Congressman Pete Visclosky for his support.” Visclosky stated, “I applaud the National Science Foundation’s investment in the MSEED Program at Valparaiso University. By supporting Northwest Indiana’s best and brightest young students in their scientific inquiry and career development the MSEED program will foster the development of high tech industry in the region and help the nation remain competitive in science and technology.” The award, which totals $499,950, is granted by the National Science Foundation. The award will be effective August 1, 2011. Additional information will soon be available at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=1068346 and https://www.Research.gov.
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, Congressman Pete Visclosky hosted an informational briefing regarding a Davis-Bacon wage survey currently being conducted by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division throughout the state of Indiana. Representatives from the U.S. Department of Labor conducted the briefing and answered questions from attendees. “Davis-Bacon provisions play a critical role in ensuring that workers engaged in federal projects receive prevailing wages,” said Visclosky. “Furthermore, because wage stability and predictability encourage firms to invest in worker training, Davis-Bacon also helps ensure a higher-skilled workforce and a safer workplace for Northwest Indiana tradesmen. Given the large number of Northwest Indiana individuals employed in the construction trades and the fact that local wages may be affected as a result of this survey, I wanted to make sure that our local workers and businesses had the information they need to take part.” 30 people turned out to today’s event, which was held the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 697 facility, in Merrillville, Indiana. The Davis Bacon Act, along with provisions in over 60 other federal statutes, requires that contractors for federal projects, or their subcontractors, are required to pay workers no less than the locally prevailing wages and fringe benefits paid on similar non-governmental projects. The Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor determines prevailing wage rates to be paid on federally-funded or federally-assisted construction projects through surveys. Currently, the Midwest Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division is conducting a survey throughout Indiana to solicit information regarding wages and fringe benefits on residential construction projects active and ongoing between October 12, 2009, and October 11, 2010.
07.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – On Friday, July 22, 2011, Congressman Pete Visclosky will host an informational briefing regarding a Davis-Bacon wage survey currently being conducted by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division throughout the state of Indiana. Representatives from the Department of Labor will conduct the briefing and will be available to answer questions from attendees. Date: Friday, July 22, 2011 Time: 1:30PM – 3:00PM CST Location: International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 697 facility, 7200 Mississippi Street, Merrillville, Indiana 46410 The Davis Bacon Act, along with provisions in over 60 other federal statutes, requires that contractors for federal projects, or their subcontractors, are required to pay workers no less than the locally prevailing wages and fringe benefits paid on similar non-governmental projects. The Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor determines prevailing wage rates to be paid on federally-funded or federally-assisted construction projects through surveys. Currently, the Midwest Regional Office of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division is conducting a survey throughout Indiana to solicit information regarding wages and fringe benefits on residential construction projects active and ongoing between October 12, 2009, and October 11, 2010. This event is open to the public and media. Attendees should register in advance either online or by calling Congressman Visclosky’s office at 219.795.1844.
07.15.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced several federal awards for the cities of Gary, East Chicago, and Hammond from the Capital Fund program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Gary and East Chicago each received one award under this program, and Hammond received two awards. Visclosky said, “I am pleased to see that the housing authorities in Gary, East Chicago, and Hammond continue their efforts to provide support for the residents of Northwest Indiana by ensuring their access to affordable, safe, and decent housing.” The Capital Fund program allows local public housing authorities to use the funding for the development, financing, modernization, and management of public housing projects. “This Capital Fund amount of $3,798,787 will be used for vacancy reduction programs of Gary Housing Authority's long-term make ready units in viable areas, as well as a design plan for the recently demolished Ivanhoe Gardens site,” stated Alfreda Peterson, Executive Director of the Gary Housing Authority. “Currently, there are approximately 450 units that will be rehabbed, so that we can provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing for low income families and individuals. The Gary Housing Authority continues to strive to encourage self-sufficiency for its residents within the community by promoting the economic and social well-being of the citizens of Gary, Indiana.” According to Beatriz Martinez, Executive Director of the East Chicago Housing Authority, “The Capital Funds Grant allows the East Chicago Housing Authority to finance the cost for management improvements and Housing Authority site-wide modernization and development of public housing properties. The use of the 2011 Capital Funds Grant Award will be determined according to the priorities that have been addressed on our Property’s Physical Needs Assessments and also identified on the East Chicago Public Housing Authority’s Five-Year Plan. Plus, all major emergency needs that arise throughout the year.” “The Hammond Housing Authority is using these capital dollars to transform and revitalize its oldest development that was built in 1939,” said Maria Becerra, Executive Director/CEO. “The next phase is using a mixed finance approach to develop 40 new construction and rehab nine old units. The development will be a mixed income development. This is the fourth phase of the revitalization of the 40 acres which was originally 400 public housing units.” The Gary Housing Authority award totals $3,798,787. The East Chicago Housing Authority award totals $1,249,415. The Hammond Housing Authority awards total $612,832 and $225,779. ###
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Peter Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Congressman Mike Pence (R-Ind.) today introduced bicameral legislation to protect jobs and economic growth in Northwest Indiana. Identical to Senate legislation (S.1197) introduced by Senator Dan Coats (R-Ind.) and co-sponsored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) last month, the Visclosky-Pence bill would require the Army Corps of Engineers to work with federal, state and local agencies and stakeholders to prepare a comprehensive economic impact statement prior to any major federal action that could affect commercial activity in the Chicago Area Water System (CAWS). Some policymakers in Washington have called for closing the CAWS or reversing the flow of the Chicago River to prevent Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes. The CAWS is the sole marine transportation route between the Gulf of Mexico and Lake Michigan. “This legislation ensures that our voice is heard in the development of any plan that could impede economic development and the flow of commerce in our region,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to join my colleagues from Indiana in introducing this measure.” “Asian Carp pose a real but manageable threat to the Great Lakes,” said Pence. “It is a threat that deserves the continued attention of this Congress, the Administration and the states within the Great Lakes region, but closing the Chicago Area Water System is not the solution. It would have a devastating effect on Hoosier jobs and the ports of Indiana.” “I am pleased Congressmen Visclosky and Pence have joined the effort to ensure the federal government does not unnecessarily punish Hoosier jobs and the ports of Indiana,” said Coats. “As federal and local officials work to prevent Asian carp from reaching Lake Michigan, our legislation makes certain Hoosiers are included in discussions and Indiana jobs are protected." “We must continue to balance our environmental efforts in keeping Asian carp out of Lake Michigan while also protecting the economic viability of Northwest Indiana,” said Lugar. “This legislation accomplishes our mutual goal. I applaud Congressmen Pence and Visclosky for introducing legislation in the House ensuring our Hoosier economy is not disrupted by bureaucrats in Washington.” Under the legislation, the Corps will release the economic impact statement to the public to ensure that communities, individuals and businesses are able to review any federal plans and how it might impact them. The economic impact statement would evaluate the effect of proposed federal action on jobs and commercial activity in Northwest Indiana and the Chicago area and bring to light any adverse impacts to public or private property, including flooding or other changes to water drainage patterns. Large scale Indiana employers, in addition to many smaller companies, reliant on the CAWS include the BP Whiting Refinery, the Safety-Kleen Refinery, ArcelorMittal Steel Indiana Harbor, ArcelorMittal Steel Burns Harbor and U.S. Steel. ###
06.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced several federal awards for the cities of Gary, Hammond, and East Chicago from the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program, and the HOME program at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Gary and Hammond received funding from each of the three grant programs and East Chicago received funding from the CDBG and HOME programs. Visclosky said, “Ensuring that Northwest Indiana’s residents have decent, affordable housing is a first step toward ensuring economic opportunities and development for our region. The housing programs in Gary, Hammond, and East Chicago supported with these funds are vital to the efforts to increase access to housing and are critical resources for Northwest Indiana’s families and communities.” The Community Development Block Grant program allows state and local government to develop urban communities by providing housing and economic opportunities for low to moderate income persons. The Emergency Shelter Grants program allows state, local, and private non-profit organizations to work together to provide emergency homeless shelters and improve the quality of existing shelters. The HOME program provides grants to state and local governments to help fund housing programs in order to increase the number of affordable housing units available to low to moderate income families. “The City of Hammond is excited to receive our 2011 CDBG, ESG, and HOME allocations,” said Phil Taillon, Executive Director of Planning and Development for the City of Hammond. “Without these dollars, we would not be able to offer programs such as our Youth Sports Program, our Home Rehab Program, or our Disability Ramp Program among many others that are so vital to the City of Hammond’s success.” John Artis, Director of Redevelopment for the City of East Chicago said, “The news of the city of East Chicago’s CDBG and HOME award is welcomed. The funds will aid the city in carrying out the vision of Mayor Anthony Copeland to increase homeownership with the city. These funds will be used for a number of new initiatives designed to reach the established homeownership goals. Among the programs to be funded are new down payment programs for new home owners, housing counseling for new home owners, newly built single family housing units, and a purchase/rehabilitation of foreclosed properties for re-sale program. These funds continue to be of great need for cities such as ours in our efforts to improve the quality of our citizens. We give thanks to the Congressman Visclosky for his continued interest in our city.” Grants for Gary include $3,313,244 in CDBG funds, $160,651 in ESG funds, and in $970,395 HOME funds. Grants for Hammond include $2,114,140 in CDBG funds, $102,337 in ESG funds, and $590,590 in HOME funds. Grants for East Chicago include $1,234,873 in CDBG funds and $364,404 in HOME funds.
06.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for the Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship program at Valparaiso University. The grant comes through the Health Resources and Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. "Receiving funds from The Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship program over the years has made it possible for a countless number of nurses in Indiana to pursue advanced degrees. This year's award will assist students enrolled in Valparaiso University College of Nursing's Doctorate of Nursing Practice program to complete in a timely manner," said Valparaiso University President Mark A. Heckler. "Preparing expert nurses to deliver high quality, cost-effective care in a healthcare system undergoing reform must be a national priority. The Traineeship grant is critical to achieving the goal of improving the quality and quantity of advance practice nurses." Visclosky stated, “I am pleased that this funding can help ensure that Northwest Indiana’s nurses get the advanced education and training they need to continue their selfless service to our communities.” This Fiscal Year 2011 award totals $18,878.
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for the Northwest Indiana Economic Development District (NWI EDD) to support the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy. This award comes through the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce. “The EDA Planning Grant enables the NWI EDD to further develop the organization as a whole and apply for formal (geographic) status as a recognized economic development district. This step forward will allow the NWI EDD to tap into and leverage federal funds attracting private investment for community and regional projects as guided by the Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy approved in 2010. We anticipate that with the EDA Planning Grant in place, the NWI EDD is poised to move to the next level as another resource for funding projects throughout the region,” said Don Koliboski, Director of NWI EED. La Porte Mayor Kathy Chroback, Chairman of the NWI EED, stated, “The receipt of the EDA Planning Grant is exciting news for Economic Development in our region. This federal grant will allow us to be more competitive by developing and implementing economic development programs in Lake, Porter and La Porte counties, working closely together as a public/private partnership to better promote our Region.” NWI EDD was established in 2009 by the Northwest Indiana Forum and the Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission to serve as a regional economic development organization. Visclosky stated, “I am pleased to see the members of the public and private sectors working together for the greater good of Northwest Indiana. This investment will help spur job growth and community development, which in turn will strengthen our region’s economy.” This Fiscal Year 2010 award totals $50,000.
06.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to provide local municipalities, non-profit agencies, and other organizations with the information they need to compete for federal funding opportunities, Congressman Pete Visclosky today hosted a federal resource fair. “As we work to make smart spending cuts at the federal level, we must ensure that the essential government services of public safety, law enforcement, fire protection, education, healthcare, among others, continue to be met. As Northwest Indiana groups work to fill these needs for their communities, I remain ready to support their efforts to secure federal resources so that we can make an investment in ourselves, and in our future.” More than 200 people turned out to today’s event, held at the Radisson Hotel at Star Plaza from 8:30AM – 11:30AM. The event included remarks from Congressman Visclosky, a presentation by Grants.gov, (the primary source to find and apply for federal grant opportunities), as well as presentations by and opportunities to meet with representatives of the following agencies: U.S. Office of Justice Programs Indiana Criminal Justice Institute U.S. Community Oriented Policing Services U.S. Department of Homeland Security/Federal Emergency Management Agency (including firefighter assistance programs) U.S. Department of Labor U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development U.S. Department of Education Indiana Finance Authority U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration A complete agenda for today’s event is available here.
06.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has designated Porter County as part of the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). “Drug trafficking is at the root of much of the crime in Northwest Indiana’s communities,” said Visclosky. “The inclusion of Porter County into the Lake County HIDTA will help local law enforcement use federal resources to support their efforts to reduce drug crime and distribution in Northwest Indiana.” The Federal Government designated Lake County a HIDTA in 1996 to aid Northwest Indiana in addressing drug and gang crime. The HIDTA, which is administrated by the ONDCP, provides federal resources to help reduce drug trafficking and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, manufacture, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. “This designation is very welcome and has been a long time coming,” said Chairman of the HIDTA Executive Board, Lake County Sheriff John Buncich. “The drug problem that afflicts our communities, especially among our youth, knows no borders. Increased coordination of drug-control efforts between local, state, and federal law enforcement will allow us to better deal with these problems.” “Public safety agencies throughout Porter County have received a powerful new team member in our ongoing battle against those who facilitate and encourage drug abuse in our communities,” said Porter County Sheriff David Lain. “We are excited to have a new partner to fight the single largest threat to our residents’ quality of life. HIDTA will now be able to unleash its considerable resources and expertise within Porter County’s borders, and we look forward to making that organization even stronger. Without the support of so many city and county officials, and especially Representative Visclosky, this important expansion of HIDTA may not have come to fruition.”
06.06.2011	Merrillville, IN – On the afternoon of June 6, 2011, Congressman Pete Visclosky joined Whiting Mayor Joe Stahura, the Regional Development Authority’s Marquette Implementation Coordinator Kathy Brown, and Chicago District Commander Colonel Vincent Quarles of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the ribbon cutting ceremony for a water infrastructure project at Whiting Lakefront Park in Whiting, Indiana. Visclosky said: “I am thrilled to celebrate the completion of a project that enables the next phase of development for Whiting Lakefront Park. By continuing to invest in the lakeshore, we will continue to attract visitors who will stimulate our local economy, we will encourage families and businesses to invest in our region, and we will raise the quality of life for all those who live here.” Col. Quarles stated: "Partnership is key to all we do. It took a team effort, federal, state and local, to complete this project on schedule, within budget and to the desired specifications. We appreciate the opportunity to work with all of our partners on this project, the city of Whiting and Congressman Visclosky. Our part of this project was to undertake sewer and fire hydrant improvements that will benefit the park area and the greater Whiting community.” Whiting Mayor Joe Stahura said: “We stand here today at an early phase of our lakeshore development in Whiting, and I look forward to continuing to work with all those who contributed to the success of this project to ensure that the Whiting Lakefront Park remains an integral part of our community. On behalf of the residents of Whiting, I’d like thank Congressman Visclosky for his efforts to secure federal funding for this project.” RDA Executive Director Bill Hanna added: “The RDA’s mission is to support catalytic projects that will create new economic development opportunities and improve quality of life in northwest Indiana. What that means in short is that our partners create a bold vision, but then together we make it reality. As you travel from west Lake County and head east to Porter County you will find people on the job, working to transform our most unique asset, the Lake Michigan shoreline, into an accessible treasure that highlights our natural and industrial strength. None of this could be happening without a wide-range of dedicated partners. Mayor Joe Stahura and the people of Whiting, BP, the Army Corp of Engineers, the National Lakeshore, IDNR, NIRPC, the Trades, and many others are making the Marquette vision today’s reality and tomorrow’s anchor. Of course, none of this would be possible without the tireless efforts, endless vision and dedication to ‘turning dirt’ embodied in one Congressman Pete Visclosky. While others talk, the Congressman builds.” Today’s event marked the completion of a water and sewer infrastructure project that included the installation of a new 16-inch water main and the installation of a new lift station to provide for future improvements. Based upon a request for assistance submitted by the City of Whiting, Congressman Visclosky secured approximately $1.5 million for this infrastructure investment. This funding, directed to the US Army Corps of Engineers, allowed for federal participation in the project.
05.27.2011	Washington, DC: In an effort to help veterans successfully transition from military service to civilian employment, Congressman Pete Visclosky this week cosponsored H.R. 1941, the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011. “In celebration of Memorial Day, I again want to express my profound gratitude and respect for the men and women serving in our armed forces, our veterans, and our military retirees, for their service and dedication, and for the tremendous sacrifices of their families and loved ones. We in this country owe them a great debt of gratitude for the selfless sacrifices they have made for the rest of us. I intend to make sure that we pay that debt to those who gave so very much.” Initially introduced by Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr., this bipartisan legislation aims to enhance existing transition, rehabilitation, vocational, and unemployment programs for members of the Armed Forces and veterans, and implement new programs to help them find gainful employment. Visclosky added, “This Memorial Day weekend, we give special recognition to the brave men and women who serve or have served our nation, but we must work to fulfill our responsibilities to them and to their families every day of the year. The Hiring Heroes Act of 2011 will help ensure that our veterans can successfully transition from military service to civilian employment. It is one of many actions we should take to honor their service and reflect the depth of our gratitude.” The measure would, among other provisions: Streamline the federal process for hiring veterans by allowing service members to begin the federal employment hiring process prior to their separation, and by modifying federal hiring practices to encourage the hiring of separating service members. Eliminate barriers between military and civilian credentialing by requiring the Department of Defense, Department of Labor, and Veterans Administration to conduct a study and work to eliminate barriers between specialized military skills and civilian employment, licensure, and credentialing. Make mandatory the Transition Assistance Program and expand the program by providing individual job assessments. Preserve and expand vocational rehabilitation and employment services, particularly for severely wounded service members. Require increased employment-assistance outreach by the Departments of Labor and Veterans Affairs. Create a competitive grant program for non-profit organizations that provide mentorship and job training programs that are designed to lead to job placements. Complete text of the legislation can be found in the THOMAS database of the Library of Congress. On May 23, H.R. 1941 was referred to the House Committees on Veterans’ Affairs, Armed Services, and Oversight and Government Reform. The bill is a companion measure to S. 951 in the U.S. Senate, introduced by Senator Patty Murray on May 11, 2011. ###
05.26.2011	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (IN-01) today convened a hearing focused on the challenges steelmakers are facing to grow and create jobs with a sluggish U.S. economy and illegal trade practices from foreign competitors. The Caucus heard from top steel industry leaders addressing the concerns of the U.S. steel industry related to international trade agreements, energy and raw materials, federal regulation and other factors that impact the potential for steel employers to grow and create American jobs. Those who testified included representatives from ArcelorMittal and U.S. Steel. “The testimony of today’s expert witnesses affirmed the many threats faced by our domestic steel industry, and I remain deeply concerned about the illegal practices of some of our nation’s trading partners, particularly China,” said Visclosky. “I also, however, remain steadfastly committed to working with Congressman Murphy and the Congressional Steel Caucus to address those challenges and ensure the success of American manufacturing. With enforcement of our trade laws and investments in our nation’s energy and infrastructure, the American steel industry can and will usher in the economic recovery we need.” As global manufacturing has evolved over the decades, America’s steel industry has led the way in innovation to become more productive, energy-efficient, and competitive. Today steelmakers use thirty percent less energy to produce a metric ton of steel than was used in 1990. Yet the industry has had to deal with illegal and anticompetitive trade practices from countries like China, which manipulate their currency and dump faulty steel products on U.S. markets. “As the U.S. stands to lose our spot as the world’s top manufacturer this year, we can’t let up on maximizing domestic steel production and getting people back to work rebuilding our infrastructure with American steel,” said Murphy. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Steel Caucus as we seek ways to help our domestic steel industry by committing to investing in our infrastructure and ensuring our trading partners stop their illegal trading practices.” A recurring theme during testimony in today’s hearing was the need to invest in rebuilding our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, which would help boost the steel industry’s recovery and put more Americans back to work. A stronger, safer, infrastructure would also help U.S. manufacturers to better compete in the global marketplace, allowing them to transport their goods on our highways, rails and waterways to market in a more timely and efficient manner. Congressmen Murphy and Visclosky have a long history of supporting the American steel industry. Most recently, they introduced the American Steel First Act (HR 1703), to require the Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Homeland security to use only steel and iron made in America in any of these departments’ projects. In the last Congress they were instrumental in ensuring Buy America provisions were added to major infrastructure funding bills. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress representing districts with steel manufacturers and the domestic steel supply chain. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs.Click here for Visclosky’s opening remarks.Click here for Murphy’s opening remarks. ###
05.23.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that Collin Czilli of Portage has been selected to participate in the Summer 2011 U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Page Program in Washington, D.C. “I am pleased to announce that Collin Czilli will represent Northwest Indiana in the House Page Program,” said Visclosky. “This is a unique opportunity that will allow Collin to play a fundamental role in daily operations of the United States Congress, and I expect he will have a fun and educational experience while spending the summer working in the U.S. Capitol. I am confident that Collin will do well and will make Northwest Indiana proud.” Collin is a sophomore at Portage High School, where he maintains a strong grade point average and is involved in numerous school activities. He is a member of the Board of Directors for United Way, the School Board Alternative Energy Committee, and his high school bowling team. Furthermore, he serves as Executive Producer for the Indians News Network TV Station. “I am honored that I have been chosen to represent my school, community, and my family in the Congressional Page Program. I am looking forward to the opportunity to serve my country in the nation's capital,” Collin said after being notified of his selection. In order to be eligible, students must have completed 10th grade but not started 12th grade, and be at least sixteen years of age, but no older than seventeen years of age at any point during the term in which they serve. In addition, the student must have a minimum cumulative academic grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 in English, Math, Science, Social Studies, and a foreign language for the 9th and 10th grades, as well as a 3.0 GPA in those subjects in the current school term. In April 2011, letters were sent to schools in the First Congressional District detailing the opportunity for area high school students. The high school administration at each school was to nominate students who fit the criteria of the Congressional Page Program. Collin was selected, and his application was approved by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s office. He will participate in the Congressional Page Program from June 27, 2011, to August 5, 2011. House pages serve as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives. Largely, pages serve as messengers, carrying important documents between congressional offices, committees, and the House chamber. They also prepare the chamber for each day’s business, assist in the operations of each party’s cloakroom, and tend to the House chamber while Congress is in session. Pages are paid for their services, attend the House of Representatives Page School, and live in a supervised House Page Residence Hall near the Capitol. Visclosky was eligible to select one congressional page for the summer 2011 term.
05.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that the Gary Fire Department has been granted a federal award for fire department staffing under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program at the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. Upon hearing the news, Mayor Rudy Clay commented, ““I am elated to hear today, that we will receive the $3 million grant we requested through FEMA’s SAFER program that will allow us to bring all 34 Gary firefighters lost through layoffs, back to work. I thank Congressman Pete Visclosky for his continued support and commend our own Gary Fire Department staff who worked so diligently on this win for the city of Gary.” Gary Fire Chief Donnie Williamson said, “We are overjoyed, and we have been waiting for this. I am overjoyed. My thanks to the Congressman, and to Mr. Groszewski, and to the city for their support.” Mr. Robert Groszewski is Battalion Chief at the Gary Fire Department. Raynard Robinson, President of Firefighters Local 359, stated, “On behalf of the Gary Fire Department and Local 2359, we thank everyone who assisted us, thank the Congressman and his speedy response to our request, and the SAFER grant program for the grant.” Visclosky responded as well, “I am honored to be able to announce this grant that will support our first responders at the Gary Fire Department. I am proud to work with Mayor Clay and the city’s emergency response teams to improve the safety of local residents.” Visclosky had submitted two letters in support of the Gary Fire Department’s application for funding. The SAFER program aims to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to ensure that communities have adequate fire protection. It does so by awarding grants to fire departments in need of personnel to help them recruit, hire, and retain firefighters, and to help them re-hire those who have been laid off due to the economy. This Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant is being made under the Fiscal Year 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and totals $3,753,099.
05.04.2011	Washington, D.C. — This week, Congressman Pete Visclosky, Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, introduced in the 112th Congress the American Steel First Act of 2011, legislation that would require the Department of Transportation, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Homeland Security to use only American-made iron and steel in their projects. “Steel is at the heart of the economy in Northwest Indiana and a critical component of American industry. During these difficult economic times, it is more important than ever for the federal government to reject unfair and inferior imports from countries like China and uphold American manufacturing,” Visclosky said. “This measure can help make sure that American-made materials are used to put Americans to work and power our nation’s economic recovery.” Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), current Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, joined Visclosky and cosponsored this measure. The American Steel First Act is intended to support domestic steel producers and address the public safety threat posed by substandard steel imports. The measure would require the Departments of Transportation, Defense, and Homeland Security to use only iron and steel produced in the United States for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair, of roads, airports, harbors, tanks, ships, and other projects related to our nation’s defense and infrastructure. Visclosky has a history of authoring successful Buy America provisions, including a Buy America amendment that was passed with the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Visclosky submitted the legislation on Tuesday to the clerk of the House, who will soon assign a bill number. The Speaker of the House will then refer the bill to the relevant committee.
04.29.2011	High-resolution photos from this event are available for use on Visclosky’s Flickr page. Washington, D.C. — Earlier today, Congressman Pete Visclosky attended the groundbreaking ceremony for Phase I of the Pennsy Greenway Northwest Trail in Schererville, Indiana. Visclosky said:“Creation and maintenance of the Pennsy Greenway Northwest Trail will put people to work in Northwest Indiana. This project will connect our communities so that residents and tourists can generate economic activity as they travel between them. And by improving the quality of life and health in the area, it will encourage families and businesses to come to and invest in Northwest Indiana.” The path of the Pennsy Greenway Northwest Trail travels from Crown Point, Indiana toward the Indiana/Illinois State Line. Plans call for the bike trail to run from Crown Point, Indiana, connecting to the communities of Schererville and Munster, and ultimately joining with the Pennsy trail segment in Lansing, Illinois. In Schererville, Phase I of the town’s segment includes construction from approximately Joliet Street to Rohrman Park. The town is pursuing additional funding to complete construction of Phase II, from 213th Street to Main Street. To date, Schererville has received approximately $1 million from the Indiana Department of Transportation through the Transportation Enhancement (TE) program for Phase I. An application for TE funding for Phase II is currently pending with the Northwest Indiana Regional Planning Commission.
04.29.2011	Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Congressman Visclosky met with the fire chiefs and firefighters of the Highland, Griffith, Munster, and Dyer Fire Departments to discuss a project that will increase interoperability between the departments during a fire emergency. Visclosky stated, “I was honored today to visit with Highland, Griffith, Munster, and Dyer firefighters, who, each day, stand ready to put their lives on the line in service of others. I commend each of the departments for their commitment to working regionally and collaboratively on a project that will better protect the health, homes, and businesses of Northwest Indiana. ” Highland Fire Chief Bill Timmer said: “The fire service around Northwest Indiana is grateful for funding through AFG that allows us to institute the hydrant fitting program for the four communities, which will enhance firefighter safety and our ability to deal with problems in taxpayer homes more efficiently.” With funds provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, the departments will soon install new adapters on all fire hydrants in the four communities for use with a large diameter hose. According to Battalion Chief Martin Michels of the Griffith Fire Department, the adapter will enable interoperability between all the departments during a fire incident. The AFG program awards grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. This Fiscal Year 2010 AFG award totals $670,400. The project is expected to be completed in mid-August.
04.26.2011	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has opened the application process for the Summer 2011 U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Page Program. One Northwest Indiana high school student will be nominated to participate in the program, which will run from June 27, 2011 to August 5, 2011, at the U.S. Capitol. “The House Page Program is a unique opportunity for gifted high school students to spend the summer working for Congress in our nation’s capital,” said Visclosky. “The experience is both fun and educational, and I strongly recommend that all interested, eligible students apply.” House pages serve as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives. Largely, pages serve as messengers, carrying important documents between congressional offices, committees, and the House chamber. They also prepare the chamber for each day’s business, assist in the operations of each party’s cloakroom, and tend to the House chamber while Congress is in session. Pages are paid for their services, attend the House of Representatives Page School, and live in a supervised House Page Residence Hall near the Capitol. In order to be eligible, students must have completed 10th grade but not started 12th grade, and be at least sixteen years of age, but no older than seventeen years of age at any point during the term in which they serve. In addition, the student must have a minimum cumulative academic grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 in English, Math, Science, Social Studies, and a foreign language for the 9th and 10th grades, as well as a 3.0 GPA in those subjects in the current school term. Applications must be received by Congressman Visclosky’s office by May 6, 2011. Interested students should contact their school administrator, or, for additional information, should contact Congressman Visclosky’s Merrillville office at 219.795.1844.
04.12.2011	Note: Photos from Visclosky’s visit are available for use on his Flickr page.Washington, D.C. — Earlier today, Congressman Pete Visclosky visited the Hobart Police Department to view recent technology upgrades designed to enhance the department’s crime-fighting capacity and increase interoperability between the department and other law enforcement agencies. With federal resources provided through the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) at the Department of Justice, the Hobart Police Department recently upgraded 60 computers in its squad cars to Think Pads, which are designed to withstand police driving conditions. Hobart Police Chief Dave Evans stated, “On behalf of the men and women of the Hobart Police Department, I want to thank Congressman Visclosky for his help in bringing our department up-to-date with in-car technology as well as his continued support of law enforcement efforts throughout Lake County.” The new technology allows for more efficient communication between law enforcement personnel and agencies, enhanced crime fighting capacity, improved security for sensitive information, and increased equipment durability. Visclosky said, “Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement personnel put their lives on the line to help keep our neighborhoods safe. I am pleased that federal resources could help provide them with the best equipment as they protect our communities.” The $90,000 award, initiated by a local request and supported by Visclosky, was provided to the Hobart Police Department through the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act.
04.06.2011	Washington, DC: Today, for the third time this calendar year, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission, this time, on a case involving antidumping duties on hot-rolled steel from Brazil, Japan, and Russia. Hot-rolled steel is manufactured in Indiana’s First Congressional District at the ArcelorMittal plants in Burns Harbor and East Chicago, and at the United States Steel Corporation plant in Gary. Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery, is below. ------------------------ Good morning. It is an honor to stand before you again this week to provide testimony on today’s case involving antidumping duties on hot-rolled steel from Brazil and Japan, the suspension agreement with Russia, and countervailing duties on hot-rolled steel from Brazil. I would like to thank the Chairman and all the members of the Commission for allowing me to be here today. This is the third time that I have been before you this year, and the second time in the last two weeks. I believe that this frequency is a testament to the serious work and dedication that you and your staff are taking to ensure that our trade laws are enforced, and I deeply appreciate the opportunity to be a part of that process. As I stated last week, we have a duty and obligation to ensure that American workers can compete on a fair playing field. This week, we have another opportunity to show that we are committed to fighting for American jobs and not allowing them to be placed in jeopardy. As you are well aware, hot-rolled steel is a critical component of our economy, and it is used extensively in the automobile and construction industry. It is also used to manufacture appliances, industrial machinery, agricultural equipment, and pipe and tubes that transport gas and liquid across our county. Hot-rolled steel is also a critical component of the steel industry in the First Congressional District of Indiana, as it is manufactured at the ArcelorMittal plants in Burns Harbor and East Chicago, and at the United States Steel Corporation plant in Gary. Since 2004, when the last review of these orders took place, U.S. consumption of hot-rolled steel has declined from 73.1 tons in 2004 to 56 tons in 2010. I also would point out that there were 30,598 production workers in 1999 when the relief under consideration today went into effect, and last year there were 21,682 production workers. Looking at the uses of hot-rolled steel I understand that there is a direct correlation between the strength of the entire economy and the production of hot-rolled steel. As our economy is still in a very fragile state, it is more pertinent than ever to ensure that American steelworkers are able to continue to provide for American needs and that these duties remain in place. Failure to do so only would encourage foreign countries to resume their unfair trading practices that cost American jobs. We cannot allow that to happen. This past year the Department of Commerce reported that revocation of this relief would lead to a continuation of dumping at margins of 41.27 percent to 43.4 percent for Brazil, 17.7 percent to 40.26 percent for Japan, and 73.59 percent to 184.56 percent for Russia. They also stated that the countervailing duties on hot-rolled steel from Brazil would likely lead to continuation of a countervailable subsidy. As you proceed in your just and thorough consideration of this case, I would encourage you to show the world that we are committed to ensuring that American workers can compete on a level playing field, and I urge you to reach affirmative determinations with respect to all of the relief at hand. And again, I thank you for the opportunity to be here today and for your service and dedication to our country. # # #
04.05.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky introduced in the 112th Congress the Fighting for American Jobs Act of 2011 (H.R.1378), which would prohibit businesses that lay off a greater percentage of their United States workers than workers in other countries from receiving any federal assistance. “During these difficult economic times, we must fight for every single American job,” said Visclosky. “Companies that lay off American workers and choose to outsource jobs should not be eligible to receive resources from the federal government. This measure would put American jobs for American workers at the forefront of the agenda of any company that receives federal assistance.” This measure would require businesses that receive publicly-funded grants, loans, and assistance to declare their number of employees, both in the U.S. and abroad, and declare the percentage of their workforce that has been laid off or forced to retire each year, both in the U.S. and abroad. With this information available to the federal government, the measure would then prohibit federal assistance to businesses that laid off a greater percentage of workers in the U.S. than overseas within the previous year. At this time, the federal government does not keep an accurate accounting of federal subsidies that go to companies that outsource American jobs.
03.29.2011	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on a case involving antidumping duties and countervailing duties for aluminum extrusions from China. Between 2007 and 2009, 4,478 jobs in the United States were lost in the aluminum extrusion industry. According to Bonnell Aluminum, 47 of those jobs were lost at its plant in Kentland, Indiana, due to a surge of Chinese imports. Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. ------------------------ First, I would like to thank Chairman Okun and all the members of the Commission for allowing me to provide testimony on today’s case involving antidumping duties and countervailing duties for aluminum extrusions from China. This is my second time appearing before you this year, and I deeply appreciate your willingness to allow me to speak before you again on this very important case. I also want to thank you for your serious consideration of this case and of all of your cases. You are on the front line of ensuring that our trade laws are enforced, and I commend you and your staff for your committed service to our country. While I normally come before you to discuss steel-related issues, today the topic of discussion is aluminum extrusions. This issue was initially brought to my attention by Bonnell Aluminum, which has a plant in Kentland, Indiana, which is in the First Congressional District of Indiana. According to Bonnell Aluminum, 47 jobs have been lost at its plant in Kentland due to the surge of Chinese imports, and 4,478 jobs have been lost nationally in the aluminum extrusion industry from 2007 to 2009. This loss of jobs is unacceptable. We have a duty and obligation to ensure that American workers can compete on a fair playing field, and these jobs lost numbers show that we must do more. In my hand here I have a copy of the February 25, 2011, China Daily newspaper that has the headline Fruitful Visit Charts New Course. The article highlighted the recent visit of the President of China Hu Jintao to the United States and his discussions with President Obama. I encourage you to put that headline into action by showing the Chinese that their unfair trade practices will no longer be tolerated, and that it is past time they change course. Last month, President Obama convened his newly created Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, which includes various business and labor community representatives. At this meeting he stated that he does not “know exactly where your future customers come from if they don’t have jobs.” The loss of 47 jobs in the Kentland plant and the loss of jobs in the aluminum extrusion industry across the nation show the serious challenge our country has to meet to revitalize and transform our economy. We must do more to preserve American jobs so that new opportunities and future customers are created, and you can start that process here by ensuring that our trade laws are enforced. As you are well aware, this past year the Department of Commerce issued its preliminary determinations in this case, indicating that countervailing duties had subsidy rates ranging from 6.18 percent to 137.65 percent and that antidumping duties had margins ranging from 32.04 percent to 33.18 percent. As you proceed in your fair, deliberate, and thorough consideration of this case, I would encourage you to recognize that the livelihood of individuals across this country and the success of revitalizing our economy are dependent upon telling the Chinese that our trade laws will not be ignored. Again, I thank you for your work and appreciate the opportunity to testify here today. # # #
03.25.2011	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Hammond Housing Authority (HHA) will receive a federal grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grant comes through the Family Self Sufficiency Program, which will enable participating individuals and families to increase earned income, eliminate the need for welfare assistance, and push towards self-sufficiency. “This is a very good, long standing program. We hope the federal government continues to support the program,” according to the Maria Becerra, Executive Director of the Hammond Housing Authority. “It helps individuals to set long-term goals to complete higher education and or improve their earnings by getting an associate’s degree or certificate in a specialized field to help them become self-sufficient.” The amount of the grant award totals $59,418.
03.24.2011	Washington, D.C. — This afternoon, Congressman Pete Visclosky joined Chicago District Commander Colonel Vincent Quarles of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Chesterton Town Council President Sharon Darnell, and other officials at a ribbon cutting for a water infrastructure project in Chesterton. “It is through the funding efforts of Congressman Visclosky and the expertise of the Army Corps of Engineers that communities such as Chesterton receive superlative infrastructure improvements essential to a healthier environment and our positive growth. We are grateful for these efforts," said Town Manager C. Bernard Doyle. The project involved the addition of a slip line to a Chesterton Sewer that runs along Porter Avenue from Calumet Avenue to 6th Street. The slip liner prevents the inflow and filtration of groundwater into the existing sewer, thereby improving the sewer’s capacity and flow. District Engineer Col. Quarles said: “Thank you to Congressman Visclosky and the town of Chesterton for joining us here today to mark the end of construction at this relining project. Partnership is the key to successfully undertaking projects like these and we appreciate the effort of all those involved.” Visclosky stated: “Investments in efforts like the Chesterton slip line project are investments in the Chesterton community’s health, quality of life, and economic development. As our region’s economy continues to recover, a healthy water infrastructure will be essential to stimulating economic activity and growth. I commend the town’s local officials for successfully identifying the needs of their community and working to bring this project to fruition.” Based upon a request for assistance submitted by the town of Chesterton, Congressman Visclosky secured approximately $300,000 for this project in Fiscal Year 2009. This funding, directed to the US Army Corps of Engineers, allowed for federal participation in this project. A construction contract was awarded in April 2010 and construction was completed in October 2010.
03.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is awarding its sixth installment of federal assistance to the Gary/Chicago International Airport for airport expansion efforts. Upon hearing the news, Interim Airport Director Steven Landry said, “The grant distribution is slated for enabling projects associated with the runway expansion program, including the relocation and realignment of railroad tracks. On behalf of Nathaniel Williams, Airport Authority President, and the entire airport authority, I would like to thank Representative Visclosky for his continued support of the airport.” Bill Hanna, executive director of the Regional Development Authority stated, “The full development of the Gary/Chicago International Airport has a profound effect on the local economy. The extension of the runway will position the Gary/Chicago International Airport to reach its full potential. We want to thank Congressman Visclosky for his tireless support of economic development that creates new opportunities for the citizens of Northwest Indiana, and his dedication to the success of the Gary/Chicago International Airport.” The initial 2006 Letter of Intent provides up to $57.8 million to the Gary/Chicago Airport over 10 years, available in installments of up to $6 million per year. Today’s sixth payment totaled $5,069,233. The funding is designated for improvements and expansion that will help the airport stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. “The Gary/Chicago Airport has the potential to transform the economy in Northwest Indiana,” added Visclosky. “Spurring job growth now and economic development in the future, this type of infrastructural investment is what we need to rebuild our region’s economy.”
03.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for improved operations and safety programs for the fire departments in the communities of Chesterton, Hammond, and Lincoln Township. The grant comes through the Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “The AFG Grant allows Fire Departments to purchase equipment that is much needed, especially with the limited budgeting that is occurring in today’s time. We would like to especially thank Congressman Peter Visclosky for working hard on obtaining these grants for the fire departments within his district. He has shown strong support to our fire department and others over the years,” said Fire Chief Ray Chambers of the Lincoln Township Volunteer Fire Department. Funding from the grant will be used to update fire hose and nozzle equipment in Chesterton, according to Fire Chief Mike Orlich. In Hammond, Battalion Chief Bill Cook said that he was very grateful for the opportunity to apply for the grant. “It really helps our department and our community. This grant will be used to get new defibrillators for our ambulances.” The AFG program aims to award grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. “Every day, the firefighters of the Chesterton, Hammond, and Lincoln Township Fire Departments stand ready to risk their own lives to protect the lives of those around them,” said Visclosky. “I am pleased that Assistance to Firefighters Grants program is able to help their fire departments maintain the appropriate equipment so that they may continue their outstanding service to these communities.” These Fiscal Year 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grants total $46,180 for Chesterton, $52,800 for Hammond, and $33,725 Lincoln Township.
03.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for improved operations and safety programs for the Munster Volunteer Fire Department. The grant comes through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “The brave men and women of the Munster Volunteer Fire Department risk their lives every day to protect our citizens and keep our communities safe. I am pleased that this grant can help these deserving volunteers continue to provide such outstanding service,” stated Visclosky. The AFG program awards grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. This Fiscal Year 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant totals $103,950.
03.03.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced a federal award for improved operations and safety programs for the fire departments in the communities of Griffith, Highland, Munster, and Dyer. The grant comes through the Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “This grant is a regional grant I wrote for the Griffith, Highland, Munster, and Dyer Fire Departments,” said Battalion Chief Martin Michels. “This grant will be used to add an adapter to all fire hydrants in all four communities to adapt a large diameter hose. This will provide interoperability between all four departments during a fire incident.” Visclosky stated, “Northwest Indiana’s firefighters are true heroes who risk their lives to protect our citizens and keep our communities safe. I am pleased to announce this grant, which demonstrates a regional commitment from the Griffith, Highland, Munster, and Dyer Fire Departments to continue providing outstanding service to our local communities.” The AFG program aims to award grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. This Fiscal Year 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant totals $670,400.
02.28.2011	In support of the Gary Processing and Distribution Center in Gary, Indiana, Congressman Pete Visclosky today sent the following letter to the Postmaster General of the United States Postal Service. Mr. Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW Washington, D.C. 20260-2202 Dear Postmaster Donahoe: I write to respond to a letter sent to my office by the United States Postal Service regarding a study of the Gary Processing and Distribution Center in Gary, Indiana. I wish to express my strong support for keeping this facility open and my opposition to the consolidation of its operations elsewhere. As a reliable local employer, the Gary Processing and Distribution Center is a critical component of the economy in the City of Gary and for the greater Northwest Indiana community. The Gary facility serves as the distribution center for not only its own neighborhood, but many suburban and rural areas in our region, all of which need efficient, timely mail service. I am greatly concerned that this service will be impeded should the United States Postal Service decide to consolidate the facility. Furthermore, I am confident that public input and comments will confirm the vital role that the Gary Processing and Distribution Center plays in surrounding communities. Please do not to hesitate to contact me personally, or feel free to have the appropriate member of your staff contact my Chief of Staff, Mark Lopez, in my Merrillville Office at 219-795-1844, if you are in need of additional information. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress Cc: Mr. E. Lynn Smith, District Manager, Greater Indiana District
02.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced federal awards for equipment and facility upgrades in the Gary and East Chicago Fire Departments. The awards come through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Funding for both facilities will support operations and safety programs. The Gary Fire Department will use its funds to modify its facilities and include a “Source Capture Exhaust System” to help keep deisel fumes out of the fire station. Funds will also support the purchase of defibrillators and communications equipment. Funds for the East Chicago Fire Department will enable the purchase of personal protective equipment for firefighters. The AFG program aims to award grants to fire departments and other facilities providing emergency management services to assist in their efforts to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as the first-responder personnel. These Fiscal Year 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grants for Gary and East Chicago total $458,028 and $275,265, respectively.
02.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today an investment award for the Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission to establish an economic development plan to support private capital investment and job creation in the region. “As Northwest Indiana works to recover from our nation’s economic collapse, we have a need for smart federal investments that can help preserve and create jobs and revitalize our region’s economy,” Visclosky said. “A quintessential example of those efforts, this award will help the Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission develop an roadmap to economic success for several counties in Northwest Indiana.” The award comes from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the United States Department of Commerce and is designed to support the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) in the region served by the Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission, which includes Benton, Jasper, and Newton Counties in Indiana’s First District. In an effort to diversify and strengthen a region’s economy, the CEDS process brings together public and private sector efforts to craft a roadmap for economic development. The Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission is a voluntary public partnership that supports the efforts of local government to maximize community and economic development opportunities. In all, the Commission serves eight counties in Indiana: Benton, Carroll, Jasper, Newton, Pulaski, Starke, Warren, and White. The EDA investment totals $166,884.
01.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representative Tim Murphy (R-PA), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Vice Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) called on President Obama today to demand an end to China’s illegal trade practices during tomorrow’s discussions with Chinese President Hu Jintao. In a letter signed by more than thirty members of the Steel Caucus, Reps. Murphy and Visclosky described a litany of China’s abuses, including illegal dumping of steel plate and pipe and persistent manipulation of its currency. By deliberately devaluing the Renminbi, Beijing gives its exporters a government subsidy that is estimated to discount prices by nearly forty percent. Chinese government officials have repeatedly flip-flopped on pledges to allow the Renminbi to appreciate in value and end the country’s notorious illegal trade practices. “We need to hold accountable those countries that repeatedly flaunt their obligations under international trade mandates,” said Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA). “I urge the President to stay true to his promises to stand up on behalf of American manufacturing against Beijing’s persistent currency devaluation and dumping of inferior steel onto our shores,” said Rep. Murphy. Said Rep. Visclosky, “I find it inexcusable that our government allows China to perpetuate illegal trade practices that cost American jobs. It is critical that President Obama uses tomorrow’s meeting to tell President Hu Jintao that the United States is ready to take decisive action if we continue to face illegal activity from his government.” China’s currency manipulation is estimated to cost American manufacturing more than one million jobs. The letter notes that the House overwhelmingly passed bipartisan legislation, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (HR 2378), which was introduced by Reps. Murphy and Tim Ryan (D-OH), last September. That bill would have allowed the United States to address China’s currency manipulation by levying tariffs to offset the specific effects of an undervalued currency. Despite the vote and public support for getting tough with China on currency, the Senate failed to move the bipartisan bill. The letter also expresses concern over China’s troubling attempt to acquire a steel plant in Mississippi. The Caucus, citing troubling national security concerns, has called on the Administration to investigate any attempt by China to buy American steel manufacturers. January 18, 2011 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: When you meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao, we urge you to make clear on behalf of the American steel industry that China’s illegal trade practices will no longer be tolerated. As members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we ask that your discussions include China’s continued violations of trade law — such as dumping of steel pipe and plate, renewable energy product subsidies, and currency manipulation — because they are decimating the ability of the American steel industry to compete on a level playing field. It is estimated that China is artificially devaluing its currency by as much as 40 percent, giving its own exports a government subsidy and in effect taxing American-made imports. This policy costs the U.S. upwards of 2.5 million manufacturing jobs and a staggering trade deficit of as much as $283 billion. Last June, China announced they would allow their currency to appreciate, but since then, they have restricted the Yuan’s growth to a paltry and unacceptable 3.1 percent. The time has come to insist on immediate action, and not more empty promises. Drawing on the support of American manufacturing, Congress expressed its own intent to force China to allow the Yuan to reflect an exchange rate set by the open market. On September 23, 2010, the House approved the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (HR 2378) by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 348 to 79. This vote is a powerful marker for where Congress and the American public believe the trading relationship with China currently stands. We also hope you will emphasize other areas where China has violated international trade law. China’s government has repeatedly unfairly and illegally dumped and subsidized steel plate, pipe, and other products, causing U.S. steel producers, workers, and other industries to petition the International Trade Commission for relief. China’s state-owned Anshan Iron and Steel Group made a troubling investment in U.S. steel plants that we continue to believe will give China a beachhead to exploit the American steel market, lead to a loss of American jobs, and jeopardize our national security. China must know once and for all that American patience for its unfair and illegal trade practices, and its exploitative and anticompetitive policies, has run out. Beijing’s intransigence is placing our trading relationship on ever-perilous ground. Steel made in America supports 1.2 million jobs, adds $350 billion to our national economy, and has built America and the world. These are jobs that make steel, supply the resources to make steel, and make things out of steel — from the smallest medical device to skyscrapers to satellites. But these jobs and the families who depend on them are all at risk unless we stand up for steel. We hope you will do so without qualification when you meet with President Hu. Sincerely, Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Tim Murphy (R-PA), Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Jason Altmire (D-PA) Joe Baca (D-CA) Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) Jo Bonner (R-AL) Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) Rick Crawford (R-AR) Mark Critz (D-PA) Joe Donnelly (D-IN) Mike Doyle (D-PA) Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) Tim Holden (D-PA) Walter Jones (R-NC) Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Dale Kildee (D-MI) Larry Kissell (D-NC) Steven LaTourette (R-OH) Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) David Loebsack (D-IA) Stephen Lynch (D-MA) Thaddeus McCotter, (R-MI) David McKinley (R-WV) Sue Myrick (R-NC) Ed Pastor (D-AZ) Gary Peters (D-MI) Nick Rahall (D-WV) Jim Renacci (R-OH) Mike Ross (D-AR) Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Tim Ryan (D-OH) Bill Shuster (R-PA) Betty Sutton (D-OH) Michael Turner (R-OH)
01.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today a water infrastructure loan for the Town of Kentland. The loan was offered through the U.S. Department Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Utilities Programs and is intended to rehabilitate the town’s water system. Specific areas of the system that will be improved include – water mains, fire hydrants, and an elevated water tank. These upgrades will provide the water system’s approximately 900 users with reliable potable water for years to come. “Water quality transcends many of the most important issues our nation faces. It is a health issue. It is an environmental issue. And it is an economic development issue,” said Visclosky. “These upgrades to the water system will improve the quality of life for Kentland’s residents and facilitate growth and prosperity in the community.” The USDA has approved Kentland for a loan of up to $747,000. The terms of the loan are 40 years at 2.25 percent. Additional funding for the project is expected to be provided by the Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs, and the total project cost is estimated to be $1,347,000.
01.05.2011	United States House of Representatives is scheduled to conduct the first votes of the 112th Congress on January 5th, 2011 at Noon.
01.05.2011	The First Session of the 112th Congress commences January 5th, 2011.
01.05.2011	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) against unfair trade practices regarding drill pipe from China. Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. ------------------------ First, I would like to thank Chairman Okun and all the members of the Commission for allowing me to provide comments on this critical case involving antidumping duties and countervailing duties for drill pipe from China. I always appreciate the serious consideration you give to all of your cases, and I also appreciate the timing of today’s case as we enter the New Year of 2011. President Obama stated this past weekend that his New Year’s resolution is to do everything he can do to make sure “our economy is growing, creating jobs, and strengthening our middle class.” Today is also of note as it is the first day of the 112th Congress. So we stand here today at a time of new beginnings, and a time of renewed efforts to strengthen our economy and ensure that American steelworkers can fairly compete around the world. As I have stated before this commission many times before, the success of the steel industry in Northwest Indiana and across the country correlates inherently to the enforcement of our trade laws. If U.S. trade laws are not enforced, and if China’s leaders believe that they can ignore these laws by providing illegal subsides or dumping their products in the United States, then we all lose. Just last week, Manufacturing and Technology News published an article about the Commerce Department’s recent Manufacturing Council meeting, where companies on the advisory board told Secretary Gary Locke that the United States does not value manufacturing. Specifically, Dan DiMicco of Nucor said, and I quote, “We’ve got a group of people who really want to make a difference and raise manufacturing up in this country, but then we don’t have a coordinated effort across all of the departments in our political leadership to make sure that that happens.” Well, today you have an opportunity to show that the federal government does value our manufacturing base, and that we will not tolerate unfair trading practices. In the same publication, indeed on the same page, appeared an article about what Mr. Lawrence Summers, President Obama’s departing Director of the National Economic Council, stated during a recent speech. Specifically, he said that it is not necessary for the United States to domestically produce the goods that would be consumed by hundreds of millions of Americans. He argued that we are moving toward a knowledge and service-based economy, and that there is no going back to the past. I would argue that if we cease to manufacture goods for Americans, then we will lose all of our manufacturing knowledge. And if we do not know how to manufacture goods, how to research and develop new ways to manufacture goods better, and how to maintain and service manufactured goods to Americans, then we will not have any foundation for a knowledge and service-based economy. We must coordinate our efforts for American manufacturers and send the message that Chinese companies that receive illegal subsidies or dump their products in America will not be tolerated. Therefore, I encourage you, as you always do, to continue your fair, deliberate, and thorough consideration of this case, and demonstrate our renewed effort to ensure that American steel can compete everywhere in the world. Thank you. # # #
12.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced the January 2011 schedule for town forums throughout Indiana’s First District. These 24 forums provide the opportunity for constituents and media to hear important updates for Northwest Indiana and share their views on the federal issues impacting the region. Find the complete schedule below, or find it on Congressman Visclosky’s website.Saturday, January 8, 2011 10:00AM – 11:00AM Gary Woodson Branch Library 501 South Lake Street Gary, Indiana 46403 12:00PM – 1:00PM Griffith Town Hall 111 North Broad Street Griffith, Indiana 46319 2:00PM – 3:00PM Wicker Park Social Center 2000 Ridge Road Highland, Indiana 46311 4:00PM – 5:00PM Munster Town Hall 1005 Ridge Road Munster, IN 46321 6:00PM – 7:00PM Carpenters Local 599 Union Hall 712 Highland Street Hammond, Indiana 46320Sunday, January 9, 2011 2:00PM – 3:00PM American Legion Post 20 1401 North Main Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 4:00PM – 5:00PM Merrillville Town Hall 7820 Broadway Merrillville, Indiana 46410Monday, January 10, 2011 9:30AM – 10:30PM EST* Benton County Library 102 North Van Buren Fowler, Indiana 47944 10:30AM – 11:30PM Newton County Municipal Government Center 4117 South 240 West Morocco, Indiana 47963 12:30PM – 1:30PM Rensselaer Senior Center 967 East Leopold Street Rensselaer, Indiana 47978 2:30PM – 3:30PM Robert A. Fase Education and Senior Center 11978 North 600 West Demotte, Indiana 46310 4:30PM – 5:30PM Hebron Library 201 West Sigler Street Hebron, Indiana 46341 Tuesday, January 11, 2011 9:00AM – 10:00AM Gary YWCA 150 West 15th Avenue Gary, Indiana 46407 11:00AM – 12:00PM East Chicago City Hall 4625 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, IN 46312Thursday, January 13, 2011 10:00AM – 11:00AM Hobart Library 100 North Main Street Hobart, Indiana 46342 12:00PM – 1:00PM Lake Station City Court 3625 Central Avenue Lake Station, Indiana 46405 2:00PM – 3:00PM Portage City Hall 6070 West Central Avenue Portage, Indiana 46368 4:00PM – 5:00PM Porter County Commissioner's Chambers 155 Indiana Avenue, Room 205 Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 6:00PM – 7:00PM Westchester Public Library Library Service Center 100 West Indiana Avenue Chesterton, Indiana 46304Friday, January 14, 2010 9:00AM – 10:00AM Hayward Branch Library 1212 -172nd Street Hammond, Indiana 46324 11:00AM – 12:00PM Whiting City Hall 1443 119th Street Whiting, IN 56394 1:00PM – 2:00PM One Town Square Dyer, IN 46322 3:00PM – 4:00PM Dyer-Schererville Branch Library 1001 West Lincoln Highway Schererville, Indiana 46375 5:00PM – 6:00PM Lowell Town Hall 501 East Main Street Lowell, Indiana 46356 * All times, unless otherwise noted, are Central Standard Time.
12.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced several awards to help Northwest Indiana families find housing and prevent future home foreclosures. The awards from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will support the delivery of a wide variety of housing counseling services to help individuals and families in Indiana’s First District to improve their financial literacy, expand their homeownership opportunities, improve their access to affordable housing, and avoid foreclosure. Three Northwest Indiana organizations received grants under HUD’s Housing Counseling Program: the Housing Authority of the City of Hammond, Housing Opportunities, and the Lake County Economic Development Department. These organizations received $35,983, $37,949, and $36,474, respectively. For more information, click here.
12.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced the January 2011 schedule for town forums throughout Indiana’s First District. These 24 forums provide the opportunity for constituents and media to hear important updates for Northwest Indiana and share their views on the federal issues impacting the region. Find the complete schedule below, or find it on Congressman Visclosky’s website.Saturday, January 8, 2011 10:00AM – 11:00AM Gary Woodson Branch Library 501 South Lake Street Gary, Indiana 46403 12:00PM – 1:00PM Griffith Town Hall 111 North Broad Street Griffith, Indiana 46319 2:00PM – 3:00PM Wicker Park Social Center 2000 Ridge Road Highland, Indiana 46311 4:00PM – 5:00PM Munster Town Hall 1005 Ridge Road Munster, IN 46321 6:00PM – 7:00PM Carpenters Local 599 Union Hall 712 Highland Street Hammond, Indiana 46320Sunday, January 9, 2011 2:00PM – 3:00PM American Legion Post 20 1401 North Main Street Crown Point, Indiana 46307 4:00PM – 5:00PM Merrillville Town Hall 7820 Broadway Merrillville, Indiana 46410Monday, January 10, 2011 9:30AM – 10:30PM EST* Benton County Library 102 North Van Buren Fowler, Indiana 47944 10:30AM – 11:30PM Newton County Municipal Government Center 4117 South 240 West Morocco, Indiana 47963 12:30PM – 1:30PM Rensselaer Senior Center 967 East Leopold Street Rensselaer, Indiana 47978 2:30PM – 3:30PM Robert A. Fase Education and Senior Center 11978 North 600 West Demotte, Indiana 46310 4:30PM – 5:30PM Hebron Library 201 West Sigler Street Hebron, Indiana 46341 Tuesday, January 11, 2011 9:00AM – 10:00AM Gary YWCA 150 West 15th Avenue Gary, Indiana 46407 11:00AM – 12:00PM East Chicago City Hall 4625 Indianapolis Boulevard East Chicago, IN 46312Thursday, January 13, 2011 10:00AM – 11:00AM Hobart Library 100 North Main Street Hobart, Indiana 46342 12:00PM – 1:00PM Lake Station City Court 3625 Central Avenue Lake Station, Indiana 46405 2:00PM – 3:00PM Portage City Hall 6070 West Central Avenue Portage, Indiana 46368 4:00PM – 5:00PM Porter County Commissioner's Chambers 155 Indiana Avenue, Room 205 Valparaiso, Indiana 46383 6:00PM – 7:00PM Westchester Public Library Library Service Center 100 West Indiana Avenue Chesterton, Indiana 46304Friday, January 14, 2010 9:00AM – 10:00AM Hayward Branch Library 1212 -172nd Street Hammond, Indiana 46324 11:00AM – 12:00PM Whiting City Hall 1443 119th Street Whiting, IN 56394 1:00PM – 2:00PM One Town Square Dyer, IN 46322 3:00PM – 4:00PM Dyer-Schererville Branch Library 1001 West Lincoln Highway Schererville, Indiana 46375 5:00PM – 6:00PM Lowell Town Hall 501 East Main Street Lowell, Indiana 46356 * All times, unless otherwise noted, are Central Standard Time.
12.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — On December 10th and 11th, a special exhibition from the Library of Congress called the “Gateway to Knowledge” will come to Merrillville. The exhibit is free and open to the public and press.What: Library of Congress exhibition, complete with replications of some of the most significant documents in American historyWhen: December 10th-11th, 2010 10:00AM – 6:00PM each dayWhere: Lake County Public Library Parking Lot 1919 W. 81st Avenue Merrillville, INWho: Open to the public and press The “Gateway to Knowledge” exhibition brings high-quality facsimiles of documents such as the first map to use the word “America,” the 1455 Gutenberg Bible, and a rough draft of the Declaration of Independence, penned by Thomas Jefferson and edited by Benjamin Franklin and John Adams. The traveling exhibition, located in a customized 18-wheel truck that expands to three times its road width, will visit up to 60 sites in midwestern and southern states over the course of a year. Special programming is available for teachers, students, and lifelong learners. Two docents will be available on site to answer questions and provide assistance. For more information, click here. For complete details (press registration required), click here. To schedule a visit to the Gateway to Knowledge, please contact Abigail van Gelder, who travels with the exhibition, at abigailvg@gomra.com. (Prior notice or registration not required.)
11.18.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced an electric loan guarantee for the Newton County Rural Electric Membership Corporation. Under the direction of General Manager Mike Butler, the funds will be used, among other system improvements, to serve 80 new customers, build 12 miles of new distribution line, and make improvements to 27 miles of distribution line. "This investment in a stable electric infrastructure will help ensure reliable power for families and businesses in Newton County, a necessity for continued economic development in our rural communities," Visclosky said. The Newton County Rural Electric Membership Coalition (NCREMC) is one of 50 recipients in 31 states to receive the guaranteed loans announced today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development. Together, these loans to fund the construction and repair of electric systems will benefit more than 183,000 rural electric cooperative consumers. The guarantee, which is funded by USDA Rural Development’s Rural Utilities Service (RUS), comes on a $1.7 million loan with the Federal Financing Bank. More information on the RUS Electric Program can be found here. A complete list of recipients can be found here.
10.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced five grants and a loan guarantee to increase the energy efficiency of agricultural producers in Indiana’s First District through the replacement of grain dryers. “Ensuring the financial stability and energy efficiency of the farms and businesses in our rural communities is a critical component of economic recovery efforts in Indiana’s First District,” said Visclosky, who was recognized as a Friend of the Farm Bureau for the 111th Congress. “As we work to keep and create jobs across the region, I am pleased to see federal resources come to our agriculture community to make sure that American farmers have the tools they need to operate stable and efficient businesses that provide employment for workers across Northwest Indiana.” The awards come from the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and are intended to assist farmers, ranchers, and rural small businesses in developing renewable energy systems and in making energy efficiency improvements to their operations. The five grants and loan guarantee for farmers in Northwest Indiana will all go toward replacing older grain dryers with newer, energy-efficient models. “This grant is going to be used to update our drying system from an outdated and very inefficient system to one that will be 75% more efficient, which should mean large fuel and electricity savings,” said John Brettnacher, an award recipient in Benton County. “It’s great that the government is able to award these grants.” REAP awards are administered by USDA Rural Development, which aims to improve the economy and quality of life in rural America, and are authorized by the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, more commonly known as the “Farm Bill.” Visclosky was a strong supporter of the 2008 Farm Bill, and in preparation for it, had organized an Advisory Board of local farmers and agriculture experts from all five counties in Indiana’s First District. Since passage of the bill, hundreds of Indiana businesses and farmers have benefited from the REAP program. To learn more about the awards and the recipients, please visit www.rurdev.usda.gov.
10.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced a grant for the Construction Advancement Foundation of Northwest Indiana for a program on construction safety. “For the sake of Northwest Indiana workers and their families, ensuring worker security must be a two-fold process,” Visclosky said. “We must fight to keep and create jobs so our workers can maintain steady employment, and we must work to ensure their safety and well-being while they are on the job. As we continue to work to revitalize the economy in Indiana’s First District, I am pleased to see federal resources come to our region to help keep our employees safe.” The award comes from the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), through the Susan Harwood Training Grant Program. Its purpose is to enable the Construction Advancement Foundation to provide a program on process safety management hazards in construction, specifically refinery operations. “Area contractors are placing greater emphasis on job site safety, and these funds will allow the Construction Advancement Foundation to assist them in their safety training needs,” said the Construction Advancement Foundation’s Executive Director Dewey Pearman. “It is well known in the industry that a key component of a comprehensive safety program is safety training. We are certain the training offered under this grant will prevent injuries and save lives,” Pearman said. OSHA’s competitive grant program aims to provide employers and workers with training and educational programs on safety and health hazards in their workplaces. After selecting topics, OSHA opens up a national competition to determine grant recipients. The capacity-building grant totals $131,411.
10.18.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Visclosky responded to a unanimous vote by the United States International Trade Commission (ITC), which found that a United States industry is threatened with material injury by controversial Chinese trade practices regarding certain seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line, and pressure pipe. This vote determines that the U.S. Department of Commerce will issue antidumping and countervailing duties on imports of these products from China. Congressman Pete Visclosky, who testified before the ITC on the matter last month, issued the following statement:I applaud today’s vote by the International Trade Commission and the Commission’s continued efforts to justly enforce our trade laws. While the Chinese government has illegally subsidized its own seamless pipe industry, more than half of the workforce of our domestic industry has been let go. Today’s determination can help prevent future injury to American workers. I will continue to fight to ensure that the United States remains a competitive place for manufacturing investment.
10.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced several federal resources coming to Northwest Indiana to promote the health, safety, and security of area youth. The Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has awarded two local grants, to the Lowell and Valparaiso Police Departments, through its Secure Our Schools (SOS) program. SOS funds law enforcement agencies to work with local schools to promote student safety and security. Funds may be used for the procurement of school safety resources, the establishment and enhancement of school safety equipment, or the implementation of school programs designed to prevent school violence. Valparaiso Police Department Chief of Police Mike Brickner stated, “This money is going to be put to good use to enhance the safety of our school systems and students. We really are blessed with the relationships we have,” upon hearing of the award. “We appreciate Pete very much in our area, and we have a wonderful working relationship with Valparaiso schools.” A third grant goes to Gary’s Crisis Center, which has been providing runaway and homeless youth services since 1976. “We served over 200 runaway and/or homeless youth last year alone. We serve kids that come from all over Northwest Indiana, and approximately 95 percent of the youth that we serve return home successfully,” said Director Shirley Caylor. A fourth grant goes to the Teen Prevention Program of Valparaiso’s Positive Approach to Teen Health (PATH), a non-profit that encourages teens to make healthy choices about relationships and substance abuse through education programs provided through school presentations, parent programs, and community events. PATH works in seven Northwest Indiana counties and has reached more than 120,000 students since 1993. PATH Executive Director Donna Glib said, “This grant gives A Positive Approach to Teen Health the opportunity to bringing age-appropriate and medically accurate information to teens in Northwest Indiana. America’s youth are in a crisis situation, and it is important that they are equipped and empowered through a program like ours, that will encourage them to make healthy choices regarding relationships and risky behaviors pertaining to drugs, alcohol, and sexual activity.” Under these grants, the Valparaiso Police Department receives $320,402, the Lowell Police Department $152,953, Crisis Center, Inc. $150,000 and PATH, Inc. $998,164.
09.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives before voting to help pass legislation that addresses Chinese currency manipulation. China’s undervaluation of the yuan makes its goods artificially cheap, a practice that comes to the detriment of American goods, manufacturing industry, and jobs. Passed by a vote of 348 to 79, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) gives the Commerce Department the authority to levy additional tariffs to offset the effects of an undervalued currency. Visclosky’s statement as prepared for delivery is below. Floor Remarks Congressman Peter J. Visclosky H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act September 29, 2010 Madam Speaker: I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. I am proud to have the opportunity to speak in support of this bill that takes an important step in leveling the playing field for United States manufacturers. At the outset of my remarks, I would like to applaud the leadership of the Ways and Means Committee, especially Chairman Levin and Ranking Member Camp for bringing this legislation to the floor. I would also like to commend Representative Tim Ryan, the sponsor of the legislation, and Representative Tim Murphy, the Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, for their tireless efforts advocating for this much-needed bill. As the Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I would like to focus my remarks on the steel industry. In the world of steel, China is of paramount concern. In 2009, China produced 47 percent of the world’s total output of steel, which is 567.8 million tons. This is more than double the amount that China produced in 2003. By comparison, last year the United States produced approximately 60 million tons of steel, compared with approximately 100 million tons in 2003. While multiple factors contributed to China’s unprecedented increase in production, paramount among them is China’s currency manipulation. The undervalued Yuan is perpetuating a destructive trade imbalance and costing American jobs. Congress must ensure that the U.S. remains a competitive place for manufacturing investment. This requires the U.S. to reverse the unsustainable imbalance that has allowed other nations to adopt policies supporting excessive exports of manufactured goods to the U.S., while we export debt and manufacturing jobs. And we must take action now, as evidenced by a recent report by the Economic Policy Institute, which estimates that the rising trade deficit with China will cost the U.S. over one-half of a million jobs in 2010. I believe that the passage of H.R. 2378 represents a turning point in the battle to combat unfair Chinese trading practices. And I hope that its passage finally gives the Administration the intestinal fortitude to stop “dialoguing” with Beijing and start enforcing our trade laws. Madam Speaker, I again want to thank Representatives Ryan and Murphy and the Committee for bringing this important legislation to the floor, and I urge my colleagues to support the measure. I yield back the balance of my time.
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky released two bipartisan letters that urge the President to respond to a petition filed on September 9, 2010 by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Services Workers International Union. Filed under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, the petition outlines more than 80 Chinese practices that violate the country’s obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization and threaten American jobs and industry. A letter signed by Visclosky and 180 additional Members of Congress is available here. A letter signed by Visclosky, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Tim Murphy (R-PA), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, can be found here.
09.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky applauded the signing of legislation to provide much-needed tax relief to small businesses. House passage of the Small Business Jobs Act last week by a vote of 237 to 187, with Visclosky voting “yea,” sent the measure to the White House, where it was signed into law by President Obama today. This measure offers eight new tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel the economy. The tax cuts included will enable businesses to immediately write off 50 percent of the cost of new equipment investments in 2010; allow for 100% exclusion of capital gains on investments in small businesses; double the deduction for start-up expenditures; and allow self-employed taxpayers to deduct health costs for payroll taxes. “Two years ago, I voted against the Big Bank Bailout three times because I thought it was wrong to focus our efforts on the very financial institutions that created the economic meltdown. This Act finally delivers to Main Street businesses the kind of help that they need to keep our communities on the road to recovery,” Visclosky said. “Given the opportunity through tax cuts like those signed into law today, small businesses can and will continue to create the jobs we need to rebuild our economy in Indiana’s First District.” The Small Business Jobs Act also works to expand lending to small businesses and reduce the outsourcing of American jobs by ending tax incentives for corporations that ship jobs overseas. Estimates indicate that the measure signed today will help create 500,000 new jobs. This Act is compliant with the pay as you go budget law and is supported by the National Small Business Association, Small Business Majority, National Retail Federation, National Restaurant Association, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and National Association for the Self-Employed, among others. The Senate passed the bill two weeks ago by a vote of 61 to 38.
09.24.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced an award for Euclid Diagnostics, LLC in Northwest Indiana to support improvements in prostate cancer detection. The award is provided through the National Cancer Institute of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and offers targeted assistance for diagnostic testing to improve prostate cancer diagnosis in abnormal biopsies. “This grant provides critical resources to ensure advanced diagnostic testing and cancer detection for the people of Northwest Indiana, which means better health and an improved quality of life for local residents,” Visclosky said. Euclid Diagnostics, LLC in Crown Point, Indiana, received $394,453 for its Cancer Detection and Diagnosis Research program.
09.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced several awards to improve and expand public housing opportunities and spur economic development in Northwest Indiana. The awards, all made by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), will help local entities meet the needs of individuals and families by enhancing and expanding affordable housing programs and providing relocation assistance for displaced families. HUD awarded funds to Lake County through the Department’s Community Development and Block Grants (CDBG) program, as well as its HOME program. Funds from CDBG will spur the development of safe and stable urban neighborhoods by providing housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities in disadvantaged communities. Funds from HOME will work toward expanding the supply of decent, affordable housing for individuals and families in need. The final award announced was made to the Hammond Housing Authority (HHA) through HUD’s Housing Choice Voucher Program. HHA was awarded vouchers for replacement and relocation assistance for families in Columbia Center, a public housing development, which is scheduled for demolition. The amount of the grant awards are $1.45 million to Lake County in CDBG funding, $675,986 to Lake County in HOME funding, and $723,852 to the Hammond Housing Authority in 112 housing choice vouchers.
09.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on fair trade practices regarding seamless pipe from China. Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. ------------------------ Thank you Madam Chair and all the Members of the Commission for allowing me to present testimony regarding today’s case involving antidumping duties and countervailing duties for seamless pipe from China. I would note that I was standing here before you a mere seven weeks ago in a case regarding magnesia carbon bricks from China and Mexico. While I apologize if my frequency is too much to bear, I must say that this frequency is a positive reflection of the great diligence and efforts put forth by you and your staffs in considering so many cases, and as always, I deeply appreciate your dedicated work and the opportunity to be here today as part of these deliberations. I appear today not just as a representative of a single Congressional District, but rather in my capacity as the Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. While I speak on behalf of those who want to produce steel and other products in the United States, seamless pipe is not made in Northwest Indiana. However, I would note that the strength of the steel facilities in Northwest Indiana and steel facilities across the country is directly tied to the enforcement of our trade laws. In the case today, you have the opportunity to send a message to the Chinese that violations of our trade laws will not be ignored. I would also like to point out that in the larger picture, this case is part of a dangerous trend. The Congressional Steel Caucus recently warned the Obama Administration of the dangers of a direct investment of a Chinese steel company into an American steel company. Last week, the United Steelworkers filed a petition to the United States Trade Representative regarding illegal investments by the Chinese government into the clean energy industry. This week, the House Ways and Means Committee is holding a hearing on Chinese currency rates. As all of these cases demonstrate, China has no compunction over violating our trade laws, and I believe that they are trying to see just how far beyond our laws they can go before we take action. It is past time for us to push back. In today’s case, as you are well aware, U.S. imports of seamless pipe from China have more than doubled in recent years, rising from 158,000 net tons in 2006 to 366,000 net tons in 2008. In the first half of 2009, Chinese shipments more than doubled domestic shipments of seamless pipe, and more than half of the workforce of the domestic industry has been let go. I believe that these facts speak for themselves and show without a doubt that Chinese imports of seamless pipe have caused material injury to the American steel industry. I am pleased that the final determination issued yesterday by the Department of Commerce clearly demonstrates the scope of the subsidies enjoyed by Chinese producers. We cannot allow these unfair Chinese trading practices when our steelworkers are desperate for work in this struggling economy. Again, I thank you for your fair, deliberate, and thorough consideration of this case and for your work to ensure that American steelworkers can compete on a level playing field. Thank you.
09.09.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced several awards for Northwest Indiana that will support local communities’ enhancements to transportation and infrastructure, disaster relief efforts, and community health services. Among the awards announced by Congressman Visclosky, the Department of Transportation has awarded a grant to the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD), which will support the renewal of overhead power wires along the South Shore Line. After hearing of the grant announcement, John Parsons, Director of Marketing and Planning for NICTD, offered the following comments:“This is great news. The grant will help us fund Phase 2 of our overhead power modernization program. Some of this wire has been in service since the early part of the last century, and wire failures are the single leading cause of lengthy train delays. These discretionary grants are an essential component of our financial plan, and we appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s efforts in securing the funding.” Additionally, the Congressman announced two grants awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services, under its Center for Mental Health Services. The first award was made through the Mental Health and Substance Abuse Service Grants program to the Southlake Community Mental Health Center in Gary. These funds will support programs administered by the Regional Mental Health Center Primary Care Initiative to provide residents of Northwest Indiana access to critical health support services. The Department of Health and Human Services also awarded State Mental Health and Substance Abuse Data Resource Projects (SAMSHA) funds to the Family Action Network of Lake County Indiana, Inc., located in Hammond. This funding will be used to promote access to the family support network, and improve the support services available for young individuals and families throughout the state of Indiana, including local communities in the First District. Executive Director Nancy Cloonan shared the following remarks upon learning of the award for Family Action Network of Lake County Indiana, Inc: “Family Action Network of Lake County Indiana, Inc. is delighted to be awarded by SAMSHA the Statewide Family Network Grant to be the state leader for families with children with emotional, behavioral and mental health challenges and to develop informed youth participation. We are equipped to encourage families in their critical role as the primary support and advocate for their child’s care. As family members ourselves, we understand the challenges facing families. With this award, our work will expand throughout the state to stimulate and support the youth and family voice while receiving services.” Visclosky also announced a Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grant for the Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs. This award comes through HUD’s Disaster Recovery Enhancement Fund, which funds initiatives designed to reduce the risk of future disasters throughout the State of Indiana, including local communities in the First District. These awards have been made in the following amounts: $2 million for NICTD, $500,000 for the Southlake Community Mental Health Center, $70,000 for the Family Action Network of Lake County, and $23.2 million for the Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs.
08.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Pete Visclosky today announced an award for South Shore Clean Cities help lower diesel pollution in the Midwest from vessels operating on Lake Michigan. The award, provided by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of its National Clean Diesel Campaign, will go to Crown Point’s South Shore Clean Cities non-profit organization, which aims to create a sustainable transportation fuels industry in Northern Indiana. The funds will directly support the replacement of two diesel engines operating on Lake Michigan with cleaner, newer technology, resulting in an estimated annual reduction of 11.9 tons of nitrogen oxides, 26 tons of carbon dioxide, and 1,200 pounds of particulate matter. Upon hearing of the award, coordinator for South Shore Clean Cities Carl Lisek identified the regional impact of the project. “This is part of a team effort to accomplish the goal of clean air,” said Lisek. “This is not just an award for South Shore Clean Cities but for Northwest Indiana.” The award for South Shore Clean Cities totals $630,500.
08.19.2010	Washington, D.C. — In response to today’s announcement that Anshan Iron and Steel Group is placing on hold its plans to invest in the American Steel Development Company, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) said: “While it is unknown what impact, if any, that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States may have had on this decision, it is our hope that CFIUS remains vigilant in ensuring that all investments in the United States are fully vetted for the purpose of protecting American national security and American jobs. We remain committed to ensuring that American steelworkers are able to compete on a level playing field and that American steel is able to continue keeping our country safe and our economy strong.” Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) added: "Not only would this venture have set a dangerous precedent further undermining our domestic steel market, but it posed serious national security concerns. We will continue to fight to protect our domestic steel manufacturers should China attempt to infiltrate American steel companies in the future."
08.17.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today support for the Kentland Municipal Airport from the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “Airports are a critical part of the transportation infrastructure in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “The Kentland Municipal Airport serves up to five counties in Indiana and Iroquois County in Illinois. Its viability is essential to the area’s economic development.” The funds from the FAA will support “phase 3” of the airport’s efforts to extend Runway 9/27 at the Kentland Municipal Airport. This phase 3 project will acquire land for the runway extension in order to provide the necessary length to meet the operational needs of the airport. The grant for the Kentland Municipal Airport totals more than $250,000.
08.17.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today a Research in Undergraduate Institutions (RUI) award made to Valparaiso University for a research program in the field of astronomy under the direction of Dr. Bruce Hrivnak. The award, granted by the National Science Foundation and totaling more than $200,000, supports Hrivnak’s project, entitled, “RUI: Variability – A Key Probe of the Properties and Evolution of Post-AGB Stars and Proto-Planetary Nebulae.” “I’m thankful for the opportunity to carry out this astronomy research and be involved in training and mentoring students as the next generation of scientists,” Hrivnak said upon hearing of the award. “I appreciate the support that the federal government gives to science research.” This award is Valparaiso’s second RUI award from the National Science Foundation announced this summer. In June, Visclosky announced a different NSF research grant for a plant genetics project under the direction of Valparaiso University’s Dr. Robert Swanson. The award will be effective September 1, 2010. Additional information will soon be available at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/ and https://www.Research.gov.
08.11.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the United States Department of Education has awarded a grant to Ivy Tech Community College Northwest. “The services enabled by this award will help ensure that more students are able to take advantage of the excellent higher education opportunities we have right here in Indiana’s First District,” Visclosky said. The grant was awarded under the Department of Education’s Student Support Services Program, and will enable the provision of academic and other services to students at Ivy Tech Community Colleges Northwest Campus in Gary, Indiana. The Student Support Services Program targets low-income, first-generation, or disabled college students. It aims to provide academic and other support services in order to increase student retention and graduation rates, foster students’ transitions from two-year to four-year colleges, and facilitate a climate that encourages their success. The program’s services may include study skill instruction, tutoring services, counseling, application and financial aid assistance, and career guidance. The award totals $220,000.
08.03.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the United States Department of Transportation has awarded a grant to the Porter County Municipal Airport Authority. “The Porter County Airport is an important element of the local infrastructure that can help spur economic development in the region,” said Visclosky. The funds from the department’s Federal Aviation Administration will support the updating of the airport’s master plan study (airport layout plan) to assist the airport in making future development decisions. “The master plan is going to carry forth the airport development for the next 20 years,” said Airport Manager Kyle Kuebler, upon hearing of the funds. The existing airport layout plan is twelve years old. The grant for the Porter County Airport totals $150,000. This award comes just days after Visclosky announced several community and transportation project funds for Northwest Indiana communities that were included as part of H.R. 5850, the 2011 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives last week.
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced several awards for Northwest Indiana communities and transportation projects, as part of H.R. 5850, the 2011 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. H.R. 5850 passed the U.S. House of Representatives last night by a vote of 251 to 167. The awards will support the continued execution of the South Shore Line capital reinvestment plan, neighborhood redevelopment in Gary, and streetscaping in Porter County. “Having a reliable transportation infrastructure and supporting community development are critical elements to ensuring solid employment, expanded opportunities, and a good quality of life for residents in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “These funds will create jobs, transport people to and from their jobs, and attract new investment. They will help revitalize our communities.” Support for the South Shore Line’s capital reinvestment plan will be used to continue with the design and construction of new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems to increase train reliability and control. Existing Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) systems, which operate more than 12,800 trains annually and help return more than $225 million in riders’ wages and salaries, are more than 75 years old. After hearing of the funding provided by the House of Representatives, NICTD General Manager Gerry Hanas said, “Congressman Visclosky's enduring support is helping NICTD to address some of our most critical operations and infrastructure needs. His is a true partner in helping to ensure reliable service for our riders, and we cannot thank him enough.” An award for Porter County will be used by the County’s Board of Commissioners to install sidewalks in the residential neighborhoods of South Haven and Salt Creek Commons to ensure safe connections for area residents to schools, parks, shopping, libraries, and residential units. Porter County Commissioner Bob Harper voiced appreciation for the funding. “I and the citizens of South Haven and Salt Creek appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s ongoing effort to secure funding for sidewalks in these neighborhoods. Ever since the sidewalk issue and the children affected came to light, he has been able to work with the community to secure these funds, which help provide safe passage for residents.” Resources for the City of Gary will be used toward the redevelopment of the city’s Midtown neighborhood through the demolition of unusable and vacant buildings to stimulate community revitalization. Mayor Rudy Clay stated, “We are aggressively pursuing grants and funding opportunities that will aid the city in ridding itself of the abandoned structures in the city. This effort is extremely important to the economic recovery our community. We thank Congressman Pete Visclosky for his work in helping the city secure $500,000 through the Transportation/HUD Appropriations Bill and for his support of the city of Gary.” The legislation passed yesterday provides $1,000,000 in federal support for NICTD, $500,000 for the City of Gary, and $500,000 for Porter County. The funding now awaits consideration by the Senate.
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — After receiving a reply from the U.S. Department of the Treasury that Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) called “inadequate” and “disappointing,” the Caucus released today a follow-on letter to the White House. “We look forward to a response from the Executive Branch that indicates they are investigating this case,” Visclosky and Murphy said in a joint statement. “Pending a satisfactory response from the White House, we are leaving all legislative options to protect American steel industry jobs on the table.” In a July 2, 2010 letter, the Caucus initially called on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to investigate China’s recent investment in an American steel company. July 29, 2010 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We write today as Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to express our deep disappointment in the response from Secretary Geithner regarding our request for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to thoroughly investigate the joint venture between Anshan Iron and Steel Group and the Steel Development Company. Our two main concerns with this investment are its effect on American jobs and our national security. While we appreciate that CFIUS is aware of this investment, it is unfortunate that Secretary Geithner did not indicate that CFIUS will take decisive action to ensure that all of the facts are investigated. Enclosed, please find a copy of the recent letters: The July 2, 2010, Steel Caucus letter to Secretary Geithner, signed by 50 Members of Congress. The July 12, 2010, response from Secretary Geithner. The American steel industry and the steelworkers we represent are desperately struggling in this economy to compete on a fair playing ground with China, which is why we find it necessary to take action in the fight against unfair Chinese trading practices. We urge you to join this fight and investigate this investment.
07.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Pete Visclosky testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on fair trade practices regarding magnesia carbon bricks from China and Mexico. The current deliberations of the ITC impact workers at Resco Product, Inc., which has a plant in Hammond, Indiana. Visclosky’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. ------------------------ Thank you, Chairman Okun, and all the members of the Commission for accommodating me to provide testimony to you regarding this very important case on antidumping duties for magnesia carbon bricks from China and Mexico and countervailing duties for magnesia carbon bricks from China. As always, I deeply appreciate the serious consideration and efforts that you and your staff put forth in this and all of your cases, and I again thank you for allowing me to be present today and a part of these deliberations. I normally stand before you to discuss various types of steel products, but today I am here to discuss a product that allows steel products to be created, and that is magnesia carbon bricks. As you know, these bricks are used in the production of buildings and ladles that come in contact with molten steel and molten slag, which causes them to be replaced often, sometimes every 4 to 12 days. Therefore, the success of the magnesia carbon bricks industry is intrinsically tied to the success of the steel industry, and our trade laws should be evenly enforced for the success of both industries. Now, as the Congressman from the First Congressional District of Indiana, I represent a wide array of steel industry workers, including those from Resco Product, Inc., which has a plant in Hammond, Indiana. These workers are critical components of the success of the steel industry base in Northwest Indiana, and they deserve to compete on a fair playing ground. We must send the message to all of our trading partners, not just China and Mexico, that we will not tolerate illegal trading practices, and that there are harsh consequences for those who do not trade fairly. I am pleased that the preliminary decisions of this case have indicated that there is material injury for the American industry. As you know, in March of this year the Department of Commerce determined that Chinese and Mexican imports of magnesia carbon bricks have been sold at prices less than fair value, ranging at margins from 50 percent to 236 percent. The U.S. market cannot compete against these prices, and as a result the U.S. industry has lost sales, market share, production, and employees. We cannot allow this type of practice to continue when we are working to revitalize our economy. On a final note, today is July 27, 2010. The initial period of review of this case was from 2006 to 2008, and the final investigation under review today runs from 2007 through the first quarter of this year. The trading practices of China and Mexico that we are reviewing today have already been in practice for four years. Over this time, productivity has fallen by at least 9 percent, and at least 30 workers have lost their jobs. I am growing increasingly concerned that by the time justice is served the damage will already have been done, and the antidumping duties or countervailing duties will just be a part of our trading partners’ business models. I urge you to continue your fair, deliberate, and thorough consideration of this case and of the evidence at hand to ensure that our manufacturing base is able to fairly compete in the global economy. Thank you.
07.16.2010	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus has received a reply from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, regarding the Caucus’s July 2 letter that called on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to investigate China’s recent investment in a U.S. steel company. Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) today called Treasury’s response “inadequate” and “disappointing.” The Steel Caucus is planning a follow-on letter to the White House. The text of Treasury’s letter follows July 12, 2010 The Honorable Peter J. Visclosky U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Representative Visclosky, Thank you for your letter of July 2, 2010, regarding press reports about the recently announced joint venture between Anshan Iron and Steel Group, a Chinese company, and the Steel Development Company, a Mississippi company. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) is aware of the proposed transaction. CFIUS, as chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury, takes very seriously its obligation to protect national security while maintaining an open investment environment. Please be assured that CFIUS will continue to act in accordance with its statutory responsibilities under section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended by the Foreign Investment and National Security Act of 2007. Sincerely, Timothy F. Geithner
07.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted to help pass the Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act, legislation to help expand flood insurance coverage and provide families with more control over their insurance options. “For years, flooding has caused considerable personal and financial hardship for the residents of Northwest Indiana,” Visclosky said. “Flooding is both a public safety issue and an economic issue. These reforms will help protect the health, homes, and businesses of residents of Northwest Indiana.” Today’s legislation will extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), an arm of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), for five years and will provide much-needed reforms to help encourage participation and increase accountability in the program. Among other provisions, it raises maximum coverage limits, provides homeowners with more insurance flexibility and options, and creates an office to assist and protect policyholders. Following the devastating floods in September 2008, FEMA provided $30.3 million in assistance to families in Indiana’s First District.
07.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded grants to East Chicago and to the State of Indiana. These grants are intended to increase access to affordable housing, expand economic opportunities, and improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. Visclosky’s announcement comes just one day after the groundbreaking for the American Heartland Homes development in Hammond. “Having affordable housing for all our residents is one of the first steps toward ensuring that residents have the resources that they and our communities need to have solid employment, expanded economic opportunities, and a good quality of life,” Visclosky said. “I am pleased that these grants will help increase access to homes for many of those who have been hit hardest by our current economic crisis.” The Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG), Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA), and HOME programs are responsible for awarding these funds, which are directed to state and local governments, and private entities, including non-profits. CDBG aims to ensure decent affordable housing, provide services and access to this housing to communities’ most vulnerable populations, and expand economic opportunities available in communities. ESG provides homeless persons with basic shelter and essential supportive services and assists with the operational costs of shelter facilities. HOPWA provides housing assistance and related support services for low-income persons with HIV/AIDS. HOME aims to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low-income families by supporting programs that meet local needs and priorities. The combined grants from these programs total more than $55 million, and are a combination of local ($1.8 million) and state ($53.6 million) awards.
07.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced an award for the Lake County Solid Waste Management District to enhance environmental education and awareness in Northwest Indiana. The award, provided by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 5, supports innovative educational programs that provide tangible benefits to communities and that focus on teaching citizens about environmental issues through hands-on training. “This award to enhance Northwest Indiana’s environmental education and stewardship will improve the quality of life for the entire region,” said Visclosky. “Promoting environmental stewardship and protecting the health and safety of our people and our communities will make the area a better place to live, thereby attracting new investment and creating new economic opportunities.” The Lake County Solid Waste Management District in Merrillville, Indiana received $32,131 for its Environmental Stewardship Begins at Home program. The program provides workshops and special events on hazardous household waste disposal in East Chicago, Hammond, and Whiting, Indiana.
07.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) called on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to investigate China’s recent investment in a U.S. steel company, which enables the Chinese government to exploit the steel market from American soil. A letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, signed by 50 members of the bipartisan Caucus, raises concern over the investment of the Chinese Anshan Iron and Steel Group in the American Steel Development Company and the affect it would have on American jobs and U.S. national security. July 2, 2010 The Honorable Timothy Geithner Secretary Department of Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: We write today as Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to request that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States thoroughly investigate the recently announced joint venture between Anshan Iron and Steel Group and the Steel Development Company. As you may know, Anshan is China’s fourth-largest steel producer and the product of massive Chinese government subsidies, and we are deeply concerned that their direct investment in an American steel company threatens American jobs and our national security. We believe that this investment allows the full force and financing of the Chinese government to exploit the American steel market from American soil. Anshan is controlled by China’s Assets Supervision Commission of the State Council, and this enables the Chinese government to direct Anshan to pursue China’s aims. It also enables Anshan to easily obtain subsidized financing, even in today’s economic conditions, which could allow them to distort the American market and force American steelworkers to compete against a blank check. The full details of this transaction are not known to the public, and we are concerned that it may pose national security risks as well. For example, Anshan could have access to new steel production technologies and information regarding American national security infrastructure projects. In summary, we write on behalf of the U.S. steel industry and its American workers that are fighting every day to compete on a fair playing ground against China to ask that you fully examine all of the details of this investment to ensure that American steel is able to continue to keep our country safe and our economy strong. Sincerely, Rep. Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Chairman Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), Vice Chairman Rep. Jason Altmire (D-PA) Rep. Michael F. Arcuri (D-NY) Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) Rep. Tammy Baldwin Rep. Marion Berry (D-AR) Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Rep. John Boccieri (D-OH) Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL) Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) Rep. Henry E. Brown, Jr. (R-SC) Rep. Chris Carney (D-PA) Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) Rep. Jerry F. Costello (D-IL) Rep. Mark E. Critz (D-PA) Rep. Kathy Dahlkemper (D-PA) Rep. Arthur Davis (D-LA) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA) Rep. Michael F. Doyle (D-PA) Rep. Parker Grifith (R-AL) Rep. Debbie Halvorson (D-IL) Rep. Phil Hare (D-IL) Rep. Tim Holden (D-PA) Rep. Walter Jones Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. Carolyn Kilpatrick (D-MI) Rep. Larry Kissel (D-NC) Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA) Rep. Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI) Rep. Alan B. Mollohan (D-WV) Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-PA) Rep. Sue Wilkins Myrick (R-NC) Rep. Tom Perriello (D-VA) Rep. James L. Oberstar (D-MN) Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Joe Sestak (D-PA) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA) Rep. Zach Space (D-OH) Rep. John M. Spratt, Jr. (D-SC) Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI) Rep. Betty Sutton (D-OH) Rep. Charlie Wilson (D-OH) Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC)
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — After voting against the Big Bank Bailout in September 2008, Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted again to put the needs of Main Street and its consumers above the recklessness and greed of Wall Street giants. Joined by 236 fellow Members of Congress, Visclosky voted for the successful passage of H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. “Families across Indiana’s First District and across the country have lost their homes, jobs, and retirement savings since the economic collapse caused by irresponsible and reckless behavior of the biggest financial institutions in the country,” Visclosky said. “The legislation passed today will rein in big banks, put an end to the idea of taxpayer bailouts of those banks when they fail, and create a consumer financial protection agency to protect and empower consumers.” The bill goes a long way toward preventing the dangerous practices that led to the financial meltdown. To prevent the creation of “too big to fail” banks and financial institutions, it creates a process to shut down large failing firms that pose a risk to the entire economy and provides for the costs of doing so through large financial firms, not through taxpayer dollars. While doing so, it ensures that small community banks and credit unions are not subject to undue regulatory burdens. The bill also creates an independent watchdog agency to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable for families and small businesses. The costs of implementation of H.R. 4173 are compliant with PAYGO legislation and are more than fully offset. Indeed, the bill reduces the federal deficit by $3.2 billion over ten years. “At a time when keeping our national budget in check is as critical as ever so that we can maintain our focus on creating jobs and revitalizing the national economy, I am pleased that this legislation pays for itself,” Visclosky added. “This bill takes a giant step forward toward protecting consumers from the dangerous practices of large financial institutions that caused an economic meltdown across the country, but there remains a need for continued reform of our financial system and its regulation. I remain committed to ensuring that need is addressed.” ###
06.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today an award made to Opportunity Enterprises in Valparaiso, Indiana. The $150,000 Department of Education award will support Opportunity Enterprises’ Curriculum Based Day Programming Project for adults with disabilities. The new program will be incorporated into the organization’s existing day programs, as well as individualized instruction for adults with disabilities from Lake, LaPorte, and Porter Counties. According to Opportunity Enterprises’ Events and Stewardship Manager Allison Thomas, “The money will be used for curriculum development and implementation. The reason that’s so important to us is that our regular funding does not include any for curriculum development. It truly covers and area that’s not covered elsewhere. We are dedicated to providing meaningful time for our clients, and this enables us to have an incredibly positive impact on them. It’s just a huge blessing for us.” Opportunity Enterprises is a non-profit organization whose mission is to create sustainable life choices and opportunities for individuals with unique challenges and abilities. Since 1967, Opportunity Enterprises has impacted the lives of more than 1,000 individuals with disabilities throughout Northwest Indiana. The award will be effective July 1, 2010.
06.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Indiana’s First District Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today an award made to Valparaiso University for a research program on plant genetics under the direction of Dr. Robert Swanson. The award, granted by the National Science Foundation and totaling more than $160,000, supports Swanson’s project, entitled, “RUI: Defining the genetic architecture underlying nonrandom mating in Arabidopsis thaliana.” A well known scholar in the field of plant genetics, Swanson is already the author or co-author of five books in the field. The award will be effective September 1, 2010. Additional information will soon be available at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/ and https://www.Research.gov.
06.16.2010	Date: Saturday, June 19, 2010Time: 10:00AM-3:00PM, with remarks at 11:15AMPlace: Commons (Tri City Shopping Plaza), 4369 West 5th Avenue, Gary On Saturday, June 19th, a press conference and open house will be held to announce a partnership for a program to give local youth a safe place to study and play. The Indiana National Guard is partnering with the Gary Police Department, Councilwoman Shirley Stanford, the City of Gary, and local church organizations to provide a safe haven for local youth at the COPS (Community Oriented Policing Station) Substation in the Commons/Tri-City Shopping Plaza. Members of the Indiana National Guard’s Drug Counterdrug Program, as well as the Checkmate Drugs Chess program, the Stay on Track Program, and the Mobile Team Challenge Program, will assist staffing the COP office to provide mentoring to students. On Saturday, remarks by Congressman Pete Visclosky, Mayor Rudolph Clay, Councilwoman Shirley Stanford, Judge Deidre Monroe, police chief Gary Carter, and a local minister are set to begin at 11:15. Youth and program coordinators will be present for the event. Program facilitators will be available to provide additional information.
06.11.2010	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today an investment award for the Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission that will be used to promote economic development in Northwest Indiana. The award, granted by the Economic Development Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce, supports the continued development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy in the region served by the Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission. The Commission spans Benton, Jasper, Newton, Pulaski, Starke, and White counties. The funding is intended to establish an economic development planning framework, process, and strategy to support capital investment and job creation in the region. “There are numerous signs that economic recovery is underway in Northwest Indiana. Unemployment rates, though still too high, are falling, and the Council of Economic Advisors estimates that 64,000 jobs have been created or saved statewide,” said Visclosky, “but the need for continued federal support for local efforts remains high. I am pleased that this award can help address the remaining need for job creation and economic growth in Indiana’s First District.” The Kankakee-Iroquois Regional Planning Commission supports the efforts of local government to maximize community and economic development opportunities.
05.24.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Congressman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and 35 bipartisan members of the Caucus today sent the following letter to Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin and Ranking Member Dave Camp encouraging them to ensure that renewable energy tax credit legislation utilizes American iron, steel, and manufactured goods. The letter references a Texas wind farm developer that may use economic stimulus tax credits to buy equipment made in China, cautioning against using American taxpayer funds to create Chinese jobs instead of American jobs. The signatories assert that the Buy American principle can avoid projects creating jobs in China and put Americans back to work. May 24, 2010 The Honorable Sander Levin Chairman Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable David Camp Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Levin and Ranking Member Camp: We write today as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to urge you to include provisions in renewable energy tax legislation to ensure the full utilization of American components, including iron, steel, and manufactured goods. There is a vast potential for American manufacturing to revitalize our economy through renewable energy tax credits. For example, there are 204 tons of steel in a single wind turbine, and tax incentives for wind energy can immediately start up our idling American steel factories. Recently, under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, it was announced that certain renewable energy tax credits allowed American companies to use tax credits to import manufactured goods. Specifically, an American company stated that it would form a joint venture with a Chinese company to build a 36,000 acre wind farm in Texas. That project would have utilized – and still could – Chinese wind turbines, creating over 2,000 jobs in China. In response to public and Congressional outrage, the Chinese company has announced its intent to build a production facility in the United States. Whether that happens remains to be seen, but the issue of using American taxpayer funds to create Chinese jobs instead of American jobs should not even be a concern in the first place. As you continue to draft renewable energy tax legislation, we urge you to take all efforts to ensure that the tax credits create American jobs and put American manufacturing back to work. Sincerely, Rep. PETE VISCLOSKY Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. TIM MURPHY Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. JASON ALTMIRE Rep. MICHAEL ARCURI Rep. ROB BISHOP Rep. JOHN BOCCIERI Rep. JO BONNER Rep. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO Rep. CHRISTOPHER CARNEY Rep. KATHLEEN DAHLKEMPER Rep. ROSA DELAURO Rep. JOE DONNELLY Rep. MICHAEL DOYLE Rep. BOB FILNER Rep. GENE GREEN Rep. DEBORAH HALVORSON Rep. BARON HILL Rep. TIM HOLDEN Rep. JESSE JACKSON, JR. Rep. MARCY KAPTUR Rep. CAROLYN KILPATRICK Rep. LARRY KISSELL Rep. DANIEL LIPINSKI Rep. DAVID LOEBSACK Rep. STEPHEN LYNCH Rep. THADDEUS MCCOTTER Rep. ALAN MOLLOHAN Rep. PATRICK MURPHY Rep. SUE WILKINS MYRICK Rep. GRACE NAPOLITANO Rep. JAMES OBERSTAR Rep. NICK RAHALL Rep. JOHN SHIMKUS Rep. ZACHARY SPACE Rep. BART STUPAK Rep. BETTY SUTTON Rep. CHARLES WILSON
05.06.2010	Home Star Energy Retrofit Act Also Lowers Energy Costs and Reduces Dependence on Foreign Oil Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act, legislation authorizing programs that provide rebates for home renovations that increase energy efficiency in order to create green collar jobs, lower household energy costs, and reduce the country’s dependence on foreign oil. The House passed the bill by a vote of 246 to 161. “Jobs and the economy remain my top priority, and I am particularly keen on legislation such as the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act that simultaneously facilitates job creation and addresses other critical issues facing the nation, in this case the energy crisis,” said Visclosky. “From the homeowners who will save money to the construction workers and manufacturers who will have new employment opportunities, I am confident that this bill will have a positive impact on Northwest Indiana’s economy, especially in the job market. This is a market-based approach to stimulating the economy, creating jobs, and achieving measurable gains in energy conservation, and I am proud to support it.” The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act is designed to jumpstart the economy and stimulate job creation by providing immediate incentives for consumers who renovate their homes to become more energy-efficient. The bill authorizes programs for job-creating energy efficiency incentives that are projected to: Create an estimated 168,000 American jobs in construction, manufacturing, and retail; Save about 3 million American families an estimated $200 to $500 per year on their energy bills, totaling $9 billion in household savings over the next 10 years; and Reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil by cutting the use of natural gas and home heating oil by nearly 7 million barrels of heating oil in 2011. Specifically, Home Star will spur home energy renovations with two types of consumer incentives. The Silver Star program provides up to $3,000 rebates to homeowners for the installation of specific energy-saving technologies, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing, and water heaters. The Gold Star program rewards homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement a full complement of measures to reduce energy use throughout the home. Consumers will receive $3,000, or half the cost, for measures that reduce energy use by 20%, and can receive up to $8,000 when additional energy savings are achieved. The legislation enjoys broad support from business, labor, environmental, and consumer groups, including President Obama, National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Home Builders, Laborers’ International Union of North America, Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Home Star Coalition with over 1000 business and organization members nationwide.
05.05.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Congressman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and 35 bipartisan Members of the Caucus today sent the following letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates calling on the Department of Defense (DoD) to exclusively utilize American steel in troops’ armor. The letter was written after a Congressional Steel Caucus hearing discussed DoD’s allowance of the use of steel armor plate that is melted in foreign countries, compromising troop security and undermining American industry: May 5, 2010 The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary United States Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20310 Dear Secretary Gates: We write today as Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to express our deep concerns regarding a Department of Defense (DoD) regulation set forth in 48 CFR parts 225 and 252 that affects the procurement of steel armor plate. We believe that this regulation jeopardizes the safety of our troops and increases our reliance on imported steel, to the detriment of our national security and the American industrial base. On March 25, 2010, the Congressional Steel Caucus held a hearing on the state of the steel industry, and we discussed the importance of the Specialty Metals Amendment, as originally included under the Berry Amendment in 1973. The Specialty Metals Amendment aims to ensure that American steel is used to protect our troops, and that American steel producers have the incentive to invest in the technology, capacity, and research and development to meet DoD needs. As you know, steel armor plate plays a vital role in the protection of our troops and the defense of our nation. The hearing brought to light a DoD regulation that defined the term “produced,” as specified under the Specialty Metals Amendment, to allow the use of steel armor plate that is melted in foreign countries. Specifically, the new definition merely requires the finishing processes of armor plate manufacturing to take place domestically, which is contrary to over thirty-five years of precedent requiring melting processes to occur in the United States. We believe that the proper enforcement and implementation of this Amendment is vital to ensure that our troops have the best material available. For example, steel armor plate is used in Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles and MRAP All-Terrain Vehicles. We must do everything possible to preserve and maintain the ability of the American steel industry to produce this critical material for the protection of the men and women risking their lives on the battlefield. Therefore, we ask that you fully examine the implications of this regulation and reinstate the long-standing requirement that steel armor plate be melted in the United States. Sincerely, Rep. PETER J. VISCLOSKY Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. TIM MURPHY Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. JASON ALTMIRE Rep. MICHAEL ARCURI Rep. MARION BERRY Rep. ROB BISHOP Rep. SANFORD BISHOP Rep. JOHN BOCCIERI Rep. G. K. BUTTERFIELD Rep. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO Rep. CHRISTOPHER CARNEY Rep. TRAVIS CHILDERS Rep. KATHLEEN DAHLKEMPER Rep. ARTUR DAVIS Rep. MICHAEL DOYLE Rep. MARCIA FUDGE Rep. JIM GERLACH Rep. PARKER GRIFFITH Rep. DEBORAH HALVORSON Rep. PHIL HARE Rep. TIM HOLDEN Rep. MARCY KAPTUR Rep. DALE KILDEE Rep. LARRY KISSELL Rep. DENNIS KUCINICH Rep. DANIEL LIPINSKI Rep. STEPHEN LYNCH Rep. THADDEUS MCCOTTER Rep. ALAN MOLLOHAN Rep. SUE WILKINS MYRICK Rep. JAMES OBERSTAR Rep. NICK RAHALL Rep. TIM RYAN Rep. ZACHARY SPACE Rep. BART STUPAK Rep. BETTY SUTTON Rep. CHARLES WILSON
05.04.2010	Ruling is a Victory for American Steelworkers Washington, D.C. – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Vice-Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.) today applauded the ruling by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in finding that China is illegally selling steel pipe products at below market prices and hurting American steelworkers and producers. In December 2009, Visclosky and Murphy both testified in front of the ITC, calling for enforcement of trade laws. The decision by the ITC will now allow the U.S. Department of Commerce to create a fair steel market by imposing anti-dumping duties on Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG), also known as oil well drill pipe, from China. “While I am pleased to have our trade laws enforced in this case and see it as a victory for American steelworkers, it does not change the fact that jobs were already lost and American steel producers were disadvantaged for an extended period of time,” said Visclosky. “The ITC’s finding is just the latest reminder that China cheats at trade. We must continue to enforce fair trade policies to the fullest extent of the law as we work to do more to protect American jobs from unfair competitors.” “Unfairly-traded imports from China dramatically changed the domestic market for oil well drill pipe and posed a substantial, severe, and imminent threat to U.S. steel producers,” said Congressman Murphy. “By dumping a record $2.8 billion in steel in the U.S., China caused significant harm to our domestic steel industry. The ruling allows the U.S. Department of Commerce to collect fees on the subsidized steel, creating equal footing on which U.S. steel producers can compete. It represents a victory for American steel workers. But, this is not the first time China has been caught red-handed. The U.S. must continue to monitor the steel market to ensure China does not continue dumping other products.” OCTG are seamless and welded steel tubular products used in drilling for oil and gas. The U.S. Department of Commerce found that China was unfairly subsidizing OCTG at rates ranging from 11 to 31 percent. OCTG imports have tripled over the last three years, rising from 725,000 net tons in 2006 to 2.2 million net tons in 2008, hurting U.S. steel manufacturers. In May 2009, the Congressional Steel Caucus called on the ITC to investigate unfair trade practices involving OCTG from China. Later that month, the ITC began its investigation, leading to December’s hearing, and culminating in the finding against China’s trade practices. The Commerce Department must now impose anti-dumping duties on the unfairly traded Chinese OCTG.
04.19.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded grants to Gary and Hammond to support community development, increase access to affordable housing, and increase homeownership. Each city will receive grants from the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, the HOME program, and the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program, worth a combined total of $8,515,768. “These grants mark a considerable investment in community development and housing projects in Gary and Hammond,” said Visclosky. “They will help Northwest Indiana’s urban centers by providing more residents with the stable homes they need to live productive lives with solid employment, expanded economic opportunities, and a good quality of life.” The CDBG program works to ensure decent affordable housing, provide services to the most vulnerable in communities, and create jobs through the expansion and retention of businesses. The grants are intended to help develop viable communities by providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and opportunities to expand economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. Gary will receive $3,965,306 through CDBG, while Hammond will receive $2,525,940. The HOME program’s goal is to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low-income families by supporting programs that meet local needs and priorities. HOME funds a wide range of activities that build, buy, and rehabilitate affordable housing for rent or homeownership, and provide direct rental assistance to low-income people. Gary will receive $1,095,584 through HOME, while Hammond will receive $666,472. The ESG program provides homeless persons with basic shelter and essential supportive services, and assists with the operational costs of shelter facilities. ESG also provides short-term homeless prevention assistance to persons at imminent risk of losing their own housing due to eviction, foreclosure, or utility shutoffs. Gary will receive $160,485 through ESG, while Hammond will receive $101,981.
04.13.2010	Lake and Porter County Participation Rates Down from 2000 Census Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today urged citizens in Indiana’s First Congressional District to complete and return their 2010 Census forms, which must be completed by Friday, April 16. To date, the participation rates in Lake and Porter Counties are both down from their final 2000 Census levels. “Census data directly affects how federal funding is distributed to state and local governments, making it essential that everybody in Northwest Indiana is counted,” said Visclosky. “The data is critical in determining locations for new hospitals, improving schools, building new roads, investing in public transportation, and creating new maps for emergency responders. A complete count is the best way to ensure that our fair share of federal tax dollars is invested in our own area. I urge everybody in Northwest Indiana, in the strongest way possible, to complete their Census forms and be counted.” This year more than 130 million addresses across the nation received a Census questionnaire. One of the shortest Census forms in history, the 2010 Census questionnaire asks 10 questions and takes about 10 minutes to complete. Completing the Census questionnaire is easy, important, and safe, and full participation is essential to ensuring a brighter tomorrow for Northwest Indiana. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Lake County’s mail participation rate is at 69 percent, compared with its overall participation rate of 76 percent in 2000, and Porter County’s mail participation rate is at 76 percent, compared with its overall participation rate of 81 percent in 2000. Benton and Newton Counties stand at 74 percent, while Jasper County stands at 78 percent, in mail return rates for the 2010 Census. It costs the government just a postage stamp to receive a questionnaire in the mail, but costs taxpayers $57 if a Census taker has to go out to a house to collect the same information when the form is not returned. If every household were to mail back its Census form, taxpayers could reduce the cost of the Census and save $1.5 billion. Required once every 10 years by the U.S. Constitution, the Census counts every person living in the United States. Census data is used to reapportion the U.S. House of Representatives so that each state is proportionally represented, re-district each state so that each area is fairly represented, determine the distribution of the Electoral College, and allocate federal resources.
03.31.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration (FHA) Emergency Relief Program has awarded assistance for emergency relief from the severe storms and flooding of September 2008. Specifically, the grant covers emergency operations on the Borman Expressway (I-80/94) and US 231, both of which closed due to the flooding. “The flooding of 2008 took a great toll on Northwest Indiana’s communities,” said Visclosky. “Not only did it inflict grief and suffering on many local residents and damage personal property, but it also hit our critical economic infrastructure. Our communities came together to help each other recover in the flood’s aftermath, and now it is good to see federal assistance come in for the damage inflicted upon our highways.” Beginning on September 12, 2008, Lake, Porter, and LaPorte Counties experienced severe storms which caused flooding of many Federal-aid routes, including I-80/94 and US 231. The flooding caused the closure of I-80/94 and US 231 for approximately one week. The Detailed Damage Inspection Reports for the two sites describes the Emergency Repairs on these routes as placing sandbags, pumping water off of roadways, placing rip-rap around pipe structures, placing barricades to close roadways, placing traffic control devices, and flagging operations. The FHA Emergency Relief Program grant awarded today will provide $781,333 for those efforts. The FHA Emergency Relief Program supports the repair or reconstruction of Federal-aid highways and roads on Federal lands that have suffered serious damage as a result of natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. These funds are awarded to a State after the President or the Governor issues a formal emergency declaration and the State files a request for Emergency Relief for the cost of damages to its eligible highways. Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition.
03.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has issued grants to the Gary Housing Authority and the Housing Authority of the City of Hammond under the Housing Choice Voucher – Family Self Sufficiency (HCV-FSS) program. The funding will support initiatives to help housing voucher recipients obtain employment that will lead to their economic independence and self-sufficiency. "These grants will help people in Northwest Indiana get the assistance they need to find a job that makes them economically independent and self sufficient," said Visclosky. “Helping people get back to work is a winning proposition for everybody in the community, and I am pleased to see these funds support residents in Northwest Indiana." HCV-FSS encourages communities to develop local strategies to help voucher families obtain employment that will lead to economic independence and self-sufficiency. Public housing agencies work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive program that gives participating HCV-FSS family members skills and experience that enable them to obtain employment that pays a living wage. HCV-FSS program services may include child care, transportation, education, job training and employment counseling, substance or alcohol abuse treatment or counseling, household skill training, homeownership counseling, and more. The Gary Housing Authority will receive $50,400 and the Housing Authority of the City of Hammond will receive $73,538. Interested families in Gary and Hammond should contact their respective public housing agency.
03.25.2010	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus, led by Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), today held a hearing on the state of the steel industry featuring testimony from industry leaders. Members of the bipartisan panel concentrated on finding appropriate solutions to preserve and create steelworker jobs. "It goes without saying that the last year was a very difficult one for steelworkers and the domestic steel industry," said Visclosky. “However, most indicators suggest that times are changing and, while I do not want to overstate the consequence of any action taken by this Caucus or by Congress, I believe that the Buy American provision we added to the Recovery Act, coupled with the investments in infrastructure made by the Recovery Act, have helped increase demand for American steel, increased production in American steel mills, and improved the employment picture for American steelworkers.” "During the previous year, the U.S. steel industry had operated at substantially lower capacity and its monthly shipments of steel had plummeted," said Congressman Tim Murphy. “At the same time, foreign steel producers had gained 8 percent of U.S. market share, up from 24 percent to 32 percent. We cannot sit idly by as countries such as China continue to break the rules by illegally subsidizing its industry and controlling its currency’s exchange rate.” Witnesses at the hearing focused their testimony on immediate and long-term concerns that impact steelworker jobs and the strength of the industry. Although the state of the industry is somewhat improved over where it was a year ago, there remain serious challenges that pose threats to its recovery and revival. Witnesses urged greater action to enforce trade mechanisms and level the playing field with international competitors, especially with regard to Chinese dumping, currency manipulation, and illegal steel industry subsidies. They also addressed the need to invest in America’s physical infrastructure with adherence to Buy America principles, and to seek climate change and energy policies that meet the nation’s environmental needs while guaranteeing the steel industry’s international competitiveness. Over the last year, the Steel Caucus has spearheaded initiatives in these issues and more. With regard to infrastructure and manufacturing, they introduced the American Steel First Act, added the Buy America provision to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and have advocated for surface transportation reauthorization legislation. On trade, they introduced the Currency Reform and Fair Trade Act, testified numerous times before the International Trade Commission, and petitioned the Administration and congressional leadership on trade concerns. And in energy and climate change policy, members of the Steel Caucus worked to include allowances and border adjustment provisions in the House-passed climate change legislation that help defend the industry’s international competitiveness. Today, the Steel Caucus pledged to redouble these efforts to pursue the preservation and creation of steelworker jobs and ensure the industry’s sustained recovery and vitality. "There is certainly more work to be done, and I remain seriously concerned about ongoing issues such as international competitiveness, particularly with an eye toward China, and the impact climate change policy would have on the American steel industry," said Visclosky. "I believe that ensuring the vitality of the American steel industry is critical to maintaining our manufacturing base and the Caucus will remain focused on that goal." "What we need to do with regard to the steel industry is not unlike what we should be doing for the economy at large," said Congressman Murphy. “We must focus on protecting American jobs, preventing unfair and illegal trade practices, and heavily weighing the interests of American industry when debating climate change policies." The Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. The following industry leaders testified at the hearing: * Tom Conway, International Vice President, United Steelworkers * John Surma, Chairman and CEO, United States Steel Corporation * Daniel DiMicco, Chairman, President and CEO, Nucor Corporation * Jim Wainscott, Chairman, American Iron and Steel Institute, and Chairman, President, and CEO, AK Steel Corporation * L. Scott Barnes, Director, Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports, and Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, TMK IPSCO * Mario Longhi, President and CEO, Gerdau Ameristeel, and Past Chairman, Steel Manufacturers Association * Carl R. Moulton, Vice Chairman, Specialty Steel Industry of North America, and Vice President, International Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Excerpts from Witness Testimony: "Unless and until we change course dramatically to adopt an aggressive manufacturing policy with strong domestic content rules as the norm for all infrastructure projects, the decimation of manufacturing will continue and we will not capture the green manufacturing necessary for our nation to compete successfully in the 21st century or to provide the good green jobs of the future for working Americans. We must also get tough on trade to ensure that we do not continue to hemorrhage jobs and capacity due to unfair trade practices like currency manipulation." – Tom Conway "I will conclude my thoughts on energy policy by underscoring the need for Congress to devise a coherent energy message that sends consistent signals on carbon emissions without jeopardizing industrial competitiveness, avoids near term action that creates winners and losers based on industry or geography, and provides adequate resources to invest in technology solutions for the long haul." – John Surma "We need to create jobs in order to have a sustained, real economic recovery that benefits American workers. Let’s seize this opportunity—the government and the private sector together—to overcome the greatest economic crisis since the Great Depression." – Dan DiMicco "Today, I am pleased to report that business conditions are somewhat improved. A number of our member companies have recalled laid-off employees, re-lit blast furnaces and resumed production at idled plants." – Jim Wainscott "The Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports requests that the Caucus reengage with the key House Committees and leadership in the development of trade legislation that will ensure a level playing field for the industry, its workers, and communities across the country." – Scott Barnes "We must ensure the U.S. is still a competitive place for manufacturing investment. This requires the U.S. to reverse the unsustainable imbalance that has allowed other nations to adopt policies supporting excessive exports of manufactured goods to the U.S., while we export debt and manufacturing jobs." – Mario Longhi "We believe that we have seen the bottom of this cycle, and things are turning up slowly. The good news is that we are booking sales related to some major projects commissioned in 2008. The bad news is that we are not seeing any new projects yet. There appears not to be enough confidence or capital available worldwide to start new projects…. The market outlook is best described as ‘opaque.’" – Carl Moulton
03.11.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded the Jasper County Airport a $42,085 grant to improve drainage. "The Jasper County Airport in important economic asset for the City of Rensselaer and the whole of Jasper County," said Visclosky. “It is important to maintain a safe, efficient operating environment at all airports, and this grant will advance improvements in Jasper County." The grant will provide funds for the design to improve the drainage at the Jasper County Airport in Rensselaer. The improvement is needed to prevent storm water runoff from flowing on to the terminal area operational pavements and into the terminal T-hangars. According to the most recent data from the FAA, Jasper County Airport is home to 22 aircraft and supports over 8,400 aviation operations annually. The funding was awarded through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which is intended to support improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. To be eligible for a grant, an airport must be included in the National Plan for Integrated Airport Systems, which identifies public-use airports that are important to public transportation and contribute to the needs of civil aviation, national defense, and the postal service.
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has awarded American Recovery and Reinvestment Act grants to the Gary Public Transportation Corporation (GPTC) and the Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission (NIRPC) to support public transportation services. “These two grants will help people in Gary and across Northwest Indiana get where they need to go,” said Visclosky. “Public transportation plays an important role in getting people to work, school, the doctor’s office, and the store, and these investments in our area will make things better for the many people who utilize public transportation.” GPTC will receive $725,000 for operating assistance, which will help it provide uninterrupted transit service to Lake County citizens, furthering their ability to access shopping, education, recreation, public services, and employment opportunities. NIRPC will receive $1,669,770 for the purchase of three replacement vans and one expansion van. NIRPC’s grant will also be used to renovate a bus station, purchase miscellaneous bus support equipment, and support transit enhancements. The grants were awarded under the FTA’s Urbanized Area Program for capital projects to finance the planning, acquisition, construction, cost-effective lease, improvement, and maintenance of equipment and facilities for use in transit. Grant recipients are required to make information available to the public and to publish a program of projects to afford affected citizens opportunities through public hearings to submit comments on the proposed program and the performance of the recipient.
03.03.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded the Gary/Chicago International Airport (GCA) its fifth installment of federal assistance for airport expansion efforts under the Letter of Intent that was approved in 2006. This $5 million grant will support the runway extension project. “The Gary Airport is one of Northwest Indiana’s untapped resources with high potential to transform the region,” said Visclosky. “These substantial investments in airport improvements can put people to work in the near term while laying the foundation for robust new industries that will create new jobs in Northwest Indiana. The airport can be a catalyst for economic development throughout the region and I am pleased it has the continued support of the FAA.” The FAA grant awarded today is the fifth payment of the Letter of Intent that was approved in 2006. The Letter of Intent provides $57.8 million over 10 years, available in installments of up to $6 million per year, for improvements and expansion that will help GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. The planned expansion would increase the size of the airport by roughly 50 percent and extend the main runway to a length of 9,000 feet. To date, GCA has received over $25 million under the Letter of Intent. Visclosky has long been an advocate for GCA, working with local officials to best utilize the facility. In addition to supporting the airport’s efforts to secure the Letter of Intent, he directed $14.8 million to the airport for apron expansion, runway overlay, safety modernization, and various other improvements, and $24.961 million for the Indiana National Guard Readiness Center at the airport.
02.24.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, legislation to restore competition and transparency to the health insurance market by repealing that industry’s exemption from antitrust laws. The bill will give American families and businesses, both big and small, more control over their own health care choices by promoting greater insurance competition. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill by a bipartisan vote of 406 to 19. “Removing the health insurance industry’s antitrust exemption is a common sense solution that encourages a free-market path toward improved health care affordability, quality, and choice for hardworking Americans,” said Visclosky. “I will continue to support legislation to fix our health care system so that all Americans have access to affordable, quality health care.” The existing antitrust exemption shields insurance companies from legal accountability for price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves, sabotaging their competitors in the marketplace in order to gain monopoly power, and other practices that unjustly harm consumers. Antitrust legal actions alleging each of these practices, and more, have been blocked by invoking the McCarran-Ferguson antitrust exemption that the insurance industry enjoys. No other major industry in America has this kind of blanket exemption from the antitrust laws. “For the last 65 years the health insurance industry has been allowed to engage in anti-competitive behavior at the expense of hardworking Americans,” said Visclosky. “Even as half of the bankruptcies in Northwest Indiana stem from high health care costs, the insurance companies have been protected from legal action for price fixing and collusion. That is not fair to the people in our area and across the country who cannot afford the coverage they need. I am proud to have voted today to restore fair competition to the health insurance market, which will benefit all Americans.” The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act will not only enable appropriate enforcement against unjust practices when they are uncovered, but will also give all health insurance companies healthy competitive incentives that will promote better affordability, improved quality, increased innovation, and greater consumer choice, as the antitrust laws have done throughout the rest of the economy for over a century. The bill makes absolutely no change in the state-based system for regulating insurance, existing law reaffirming state regulatory and taxing authority for the insurance industry, nor the legitimate collective gathering and distribution of statistical information that the insurance industry uses in assessing risks for policies. Leading consumer groups and senior groups, state attorneys general, the American Bar Association, and others, have supported repealing this antitrust exemption for decades. The bipartisan Antitrust Modernization Commission, established by Congress and President Bush in 2002, echoed this call in its 2007 report.
02.18.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has awarded a $25,140,315 Broadband Technology Opportunities Program Grant to connect 21 Ivy Tech Community College campuses to Indiana’s existing high-speed network for education and research, known as the I-Light network. The project is intended to help advance education, research, and economic opportunities throughout Indiana. “Ivy Tech plays in essential role in job training and economic development in Northwest Indiana and across the state,” said Visclosky. “This project will not only enhance the connection between Ivy Tech campuses statewide, but also strengthen its network ties to other Indiana colleges and universities. This infrastructure expansion will improve the educational and research opportunities available at Ivy Tech to help advance economic development and create jobs.” Managed by the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program provides grants to support the deployment of broadband infrastructure in un-served and underserved areas, to enhance broadband capacity at public computer centers, and to encourage sustainable adoption of broadband service. Through this support, the program helps spur job creation and stimulates long-term economic growth and opportunity. The grant awarded today will help the Indiana Middle Mile Fiber for Schools, Communities, and Anchor Institutions project directly connect 21 Ivy Tech Community College campuses to the I-Light network. The project plans to deploy a 626-mile fiber-optic network to provide 1 Gbps to 10 Gbps connections between the newly-connected Ivy Tech campuses and the 42 colleges and universities already on the I-Light network. It will advance education, research, and economic opportunities throughout Indiana and is expected to spur affordable broadband service to local consumers in more than 100 communities along the route, over 70 percent of which are in underserved areas, by allowing local Internet service providers to connect to the project’s open network. The Indiana Middle Mile Fiber for Schools, Communities, and Anchor Institutions project also proposes to: Provide 413 points of interconnection along the route on a wholesale basis, enabling last mile providers to serve an area with an estimated 480,000 households, 49,000 businesses, and almost 4,800 anchor institutions, including health centers, schools, public safety organizations, and government offices; Leverage broadband to stimulate economic development and bolster the state’s career and technical education offerings given the current economic conditions and the loss of traditional manufacturing jobs in the area; and Partner with six socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses in implementing the project.
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $6,825,000 in federal assistance for projects across Northwest Indiana that will help create jobs, spur economic development, and advance community safety. “I am proud to help Northwest Indiana leverage federal opportunities to advance meaningful projects across the region,” said Visclosky. “These investments in our infrastructure, community safety, and our people will help create jobs, grow our economy, and improve the quality of life for everybody in the region.” The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report today, and the legislation is expected to pass the Senate shortly and be signed into law by the President.$3.9 million for Northwest Indiana’s Economic Infrastructure “Making targeted investments in our local economic infrastructure not only creates badly-needed jobs immediately, but also facilitates new investment, increased commerce, and greater economic opportunities for years to come,” said Visclosky. “These projects will help advance our economy and make Northwest Indiana a better place to live.” The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) will receive $2 million for the South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Reinvestment Plan. Specifically, NICTD will use the funding to continue to design and build new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems that will increase operational flexibility and reliability, and enlarge capacity to meet increases in demand. NICTD operates more than 12,800 trains annually carrying more than 4.2 million passengers to high paying Chicago jobs. Riders return in excess of $225 million in salaries and wages to Northwest Indiana. To maintain this service, the 75-year-old signal and power distribution systems must be replaced. Crown Point will receive $900,000 for improvements to North Street. The funding will help improve and widen North Street/109th Avenue between Interstate 65 and State Road 53. This project will be executed in anticipation of the new interchange off of I-65 and the new traffic that the interchange will generate. Work will include removal of the existing roadway, rehabilitation of the road sub-grade, replacement of pavement, and installation of appropriate storm water infrastructure in order to improve traffic interconnectivity and reduce congestion. Porter County will receive $500,000 for the Dunes-Kankakee Trail. The funding will be used by the Porter County Board of Commissioners to construct approaches and crossings for the Dunes-Kankakee Trail near the intersection of U.S Highway 20 and State Road 49. This project will be one of the first steps in constructing a valuable north-south link in the existing regional trail system, expanding the recreational opportunities for those residing on or visiting the southern shore of Lake Michigan. Further, the trail’s connection with the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will allow more visitors to access this national treasure by providing an alternative to the overcrowded parking lots at the site. Schererville will receive $250,000 to extend Oak Street from Kennedy Avenue to U.S. Highway 41. The project would entail engineering for grade separation of a single railroad track, road widening, and identifying right-of-way in order to create a much needed through street that alleviates congestion on U.S. 41 and encourages new development in the area. The Entech Innovation Center in Valparaiso will receive $250,000 to facilitate and equip wet labs to accommodate the recruitment and commercialization of start-up companies and corporate expansions in the medical diagnostics and medical instrumentation industries. The investment will allow the Center to provide top quality facilities and business services in an expanding industry, bringing high tech jobs to Northwest Indiana. The Center has partnered with Valparaiso University, Purdue North Central, Ivy Tech Community College, and the Valparaiso Economic Development Corporation on the initiative and anticipates that it will support 78 new jobs over two years, plus additional job growth in the future.$1,925,000 for Northwest Indiana’s Law Enforcement Agencies “Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement officers bravely protect our communities from crime and drugs and ensure our public safety.” said Visclosky. “It is an honor for me to repay a debt of gratitude to them by supporting their work with the resources and technology they need to perform their duties as best they can.” The Lake County Sheriff’s Department will receive $500,000 to begin the initial steps in the consolidation of Lake County’s 18 dispatch centers. The project, which was developed by the Lake County Public Safety Commission, will require the purchase of new interoperable radios and the corresponding software system in order to increase efficiency, improve 9-1-1 response capabilities, and cut costs. The Merrillville Police Department will receive $500,000 for technology and equipment upgrades to its communications systems. The funds will be used to purchase computer hardware, software, and video recording equipment that will greatly improve the department’s efficiency. The Highland Police Department will receive $485,000 to purchase and install emergency preemption devices on all traffic signals in the town. The technology upgrade will benefit all of the public safety agencies in Highland by reducing the response time to incidents and lowering the chance of traffic accidents at intersections between first responders and citizens. The Hebron Police Department will receive $190,000 to upgrade its radio communication system, which needs to be improved to meet the upcoming move to narrowband frequency mandated by the Federal Communication Commission. The upgrade will also increase the reliability of the department dispatch and radio communications, resulting in more efficient service for the citizens of Hebron. The Gary Police Department will receive $92,000 to purchase and install a Global Positioning System-based automatic vehicle location system. This combined software and hardware system will allow dispatch to assign officers to incidents in a more effective manner, enhancing critical incident response, patrol, and other day-to-day police operations. The Hobart Police Department will receive $90,000 to upgrade computers in police vehicles from commercial grade laptops to Think Pads designed to withstand police driving conditions and allow for more interoperable communication between the department and other law enforcement agencies. The new technology will allow for more efficient communication between law enforcement personnel and agencies, enhanced crime fighting capacity, improved security for sensitive information, and increased equipment durability. The Porter Police Department will receive $68,000 to establish a common “backbone” network consisting of dispatch 800Mhz equipment and radios that officers can use to communicate with the dispatch center and each other while allowing interoperability between other jurisdictions. The new system will be modern and reliable, and is designed to grow with the department. The Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) will receive no less than $3 million. The Federal Government designated Lake County a HIDTA in 1996 to aid Northwest Indiana in addressing drug and gang crime. The HIDTA, which is administrated by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), has made over 3,900 arrests and seized drugs and firearms worth a combined street value of over $251 million. ONDCP will set the HIDTA’s final funding level, which must meet or exceed the $3 million it received last year. Visclosky’s nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership will receive $30 million. The Partnership, which Visclosky created in 1998 after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment, funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Since 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 818,000 law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. In Northwest Indiana, it has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. The bill makes available $298 million for COPS Hiring Grants to hire or retain approximately 1,400 officers. The COPS program has helped train nearly 500,000 law enforcement personnel, community members, and government leaders and has helped put over 121,500 additional officers on the beat nation-wide. Most recently, this program provided $3,970,892 in grants for police departments in Northwest Indiana to hire 20 new officers.$1 million for Education and Training Programs in Northwest Indiana “I believe that everybody should have the chance to seek the education, training, and skills they need to prepare themselves for a fruitful life,” said Visclosky. “These diverse initiatives create opportunities for Northwest Indiana residents and help people get ahead.” Porter-Starke Services will receive $550,000 to construct a new Portage Behavioral Health Center. The new 8,000 square foot center is projected to treat 4,700 individuals with behavior needs annually and employ a staff of 24. Untreated behavioral disorders lead to lower graduation rates, increased drug abuse, increased crime, increased unemployment, and increased rate of suicide, and Porter-Starke Services helps individuals avoid those pitfalls. The University of Saint Francis will receive $200,000 to support the addition of equipment and furnishings for the Nursing Laboratory at its Crown Point campus. The new high-fidelity equipment will allow students to practice nursing skills on low census populations like pediatrics and maternity patients, and let faculty set up high-risk, low-incidence clinical simulations that many students would not otherwise experience. Northwest Indiana has some of the highest nursing vacancy rates in the nation and the expansion of the University’s nursing program will help address that shortage. Opportunity Enterprises will receive $150,000 to expand its Enriching Possibilities Day Program by engaging clients in meaningful curricular and social activities. Specifically, the funds will be used to create a resource library, establish an Assistive Technology computer lab, purchase equipment to help individuals develop fine motor skills, and set up additional sensory equipment. Opportunity Enterprises creates sustainable life choices and opportunities for individuals with unique challenges and abilities, serving roughly 1,100 people in Northwest Indiana. Parents as Teachers of Lake County will receive $100,000 to expand its family literacy program, which currently serves 500 families, to include 150 additional families that are presently on the waiting list. Parents as Teachers is a not-for-profit early childhood and support program for families with children up to the age of five in Lake and Porter Counties. The program’s goals are to increase parent knowledge of early childhood development and improve parenting practices, provide early detection of developmental delays and health issues, prevent child abuse and neglect, and increase children’s school readiness and school success. The funds will also be used to develop new Parents as Teachers programs in Benton, Jasper, and Newton Counties.
12.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has released the funding he secured for South Haven to build more sidewalks. The construction project, which will expand on the sidewalks completed earlier this year, will create jobs immediately while addressing a critical safety concern for the community’s children. “The South Haven sidewalks project will not only create badly-needed jobs right now, but also allow children in the community to safely walk to school and afterschool activities for years to come,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to support this continued effort to make South Haven a better, safer place to raise a family.” South Haven now has access to a $237,500 grant that Visclosky secured in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act for the continued construction of sidewalks near schools, parks, and other youth-oriented facilities. The need for sidewalks was identified by the South Haven Community Safety Task Force as a way to improve safety for the community’s children in the wake of serious accidents. In August, Visclosky and local leaders celebrated the completion of the community’s first sidewalks, which run along Long Run Road and Juniper Street, connecting schools with the local Boys and Girls Club. Those sidewalks were built with $294,000 Visclosky secured in fiscal year 2008.
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, today sent the following letter to President Obama, detailing three actions he can take to preserve and create jobs in the U.S. steel industry on the eve of the White House jobs summit: December 2, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As a summit on jobs convenes at the White House, we write as Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus to express our concern with recent events that threaten the viability of the American steel industry and in support of enacting policies that will get our constituents back to work as quickly as possible. The steel industry has been forced to make painful decisions in response to the unprecedented economic downturn. Those measures have included layoffs, early retirements, reduced work hours, and idled facilities. But that does not have to be the case as there are steps that the government can take to help the American economy and get people back to work. First, there have been recent reports that assistance from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will be used to finance a 36,000 acre wind power farm in Texas, which will utilize wind turbines manufactured in China; in fact, organizers of the project say that it will create thousands of jobs in China. Specifically, the project is expected to utilize a Chinese manufacturer, A-Power, that will build 240 2.5 megawatt wind turbines in China. The manufacturing capacity for these wind turbines exists at steel facilities located throughout the United States, and we urge you to ensure that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is used to create jobs domestically, and not in China. Second, separate reports have indicated that a unit of China’s state-controlled sovereign wealth fund is planning to purchase a 15 percent stake in AES, a U.S. power-generating company, worth $2.2 billion, which will be used for new power projects, including wind projects. As you know, AES is a leading power company that is engaged in power generation and transmission throughout the nation, providing for vital economic and national security needs. It is our sincere hope that the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS) will thoroughly investigate the implications of this investment for American workers and the American steel industry, including an assessment of what assets and technologies will be available to the Chinese government and the potential use of Chinese-made wind turbines in America. Third, we urge you to support Congress in enacting a six-year surface transportation authorization bill immediately. In the third quarter of 2009, China’s economic growth has risen due in large part because of their stimulus package that invested in infrastructure. Gearing federal funds towards infrastructure projects will provide jobs and revenue to state and local communities, and will have a positive impact on a wide array of individuals from steel producers, to suppliers, to manufacturers of goods, all which will aid in the recovery of our national economy. Prompt passage of a robust multi-year surface transportation authorization that provides for all federal infrastructure needs including, highways, waterways, rail, aviation, and pipelines, is a necessary first step in creating domestic jobs. As you continue to work on issues related to the economy, we hope that you consider these issues, while keeping in mind the vitality of American steelworkers and the critical role the steel industry plays in the U.S. economy. It is imperative that American taxpayer dollars assist the American economy and are utilized to help employ American workers. Sincerely, Rep. PETER J. VISCLOSKY Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus Rep. TIM MURPHY Vice Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus
12.01.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified at the U.S. International Trade Commission’s hearing on “Certain Oil Country Tubular Goods from China,” calling on the Commission to protect American jobs by enforcing U.S. trade laws and implementing anti-dumping and countervailing duties on illegally traded Chinese steel products . The following is Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery: Thank you Chairman Aranoff and members of the U.S. International Trade Commission for the opportunity to testify before you today on anti-dumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders on certain oil country tubular goods from China. I also would like to thank you and your staff for your continued efforts to enforce our trade laws. I truly value the hard work and the serious consideration you demonstrate in every case and, as always, I appreciate your willingness to hear my position today. I stand before you as the United States Representative for the First Congressional District of Indiana and as the Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus. While the First Congressional District of Indiana does not explicitly make oil country tubular goods, I would like to provide the perspective of how this case affects all steel facilities throughout the United States, including those in Northwest Indiana. U.S. Steel is the largest producer of pipe in the country, and if the whole company is not doing well, then every facility they have everywhere in the country will feel the effects. The facts in this case are staggeringly obvious. Imports of oil country tubular goods from China have increased from 725,000 net tons in 2006 to 2.2 million net tons in 2008. This type of surge is unprecedented, and it has led to the loss of more than 2,000 American jobs. These are desperately difficult times for steelworkers in Northwest Indiana and across the country, and they deserve to know that their government is doing everything possible to protect their jobs. I offered the Buy American Amendment to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to ensure that their tax dollars are going to stimulate American jobs, and not buy unfairly subsidized Chinese steel. As you may know, this Amendment requires that American steel be used in all stimulus projects, ensuring that American steel is used to strengthen our infrastructure and our economy. You are in a position to protect American jobs by ensuring that our trade laws are not violated by dumped Chinese steel. You also have the ability to create the expectation that when our trade laws are broken there will be consequences. As I have said before in this room, if we are to maintain a manufacturing base in the United States, we must have zero tolerance for unfair and illegal imports. Therefore, I can not more strongly urge you to implement these AD and CVD orders on oil country tubular goods from China. Again, I thank you for the opportunity to testify on this critical matter, and I sincerely appreciate your deliberations on this and on all types of illegal trade practices.
11.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today joined 44 other bipartisan Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to support the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, a bill Visclosky cosponsored, and encouraging him to take a strong stand on currency manipulation. The letter was drafted in response to the Treasury Department’s failure to name China as a currency manipulator in a recent report to Congress. The following is the letter to President Obama: November 5, 2009 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We were both surprised and disappointed that the Treasury Department declined to name China as a currency manipulator in the October 15th report to Congress mandated by the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act. The report’s finding that “no major trading partner of the United States met the standards” of manipulating its currency to gain an unfair advantage in its trade balance or balance of payments shows that our standards must be re-evaluated. In order for us to revitalize our economy, it is imperative that we recognize the actions that contributed to the current recession. This past May, a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers reintroduced the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, H.R. 2378, and S. 1027 on the Senate side. This bill would target exchange rate misalignment between the U.S. Dollar, Chinese Yuan and other major trading partners, in order to reduce the unnatural comparative advantages that command economies can use against market economies. We need to establish a firm approach to correcting this unfair trade practice, and defend American workers, industry and business that have been harmed by the unfair disadvantages in manufacturing and export that currency misalignment has created. China continues to illegally subsidize products by a third of the costs by manipulating their currency to undercut American goods, and it’s important that the Treasury Department stands with the work we are doing in Congress to stop illegal and unfair trade. We urge your support of this legislation – as you did during the 110th Congress – and encourage you to take a strong stand on currency manipulation. Thank you for your consideration of this request and we look forward to working with you on protecting American workers from unfair trade. Sincerely, PETE VISCLOSKY Member of Congress
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $1.8 million in federal assistance for two environmental infrastructure projects in Northwest Indiana, and that the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, an interagency program to target the most significant problems in the Great Lakes region, such as invasive aquatic species, non-point source pollution, and contaminated sediment, will be funded at $475 million. The funding is all included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report today, and the legislation is expected to pass the Senate shortly and be signed into law by the President. “Executing these projects will create much needed jobs as we improve our environmental infrastructure, raise our quality of life, and lay the foundation for new economic opportunities,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to support these efforts to advance environmental education at the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, improve Portage’s wastewater infrastructure, and restore the Great Lakes. People across Northwest Indiana will benefit from these initiatives.” The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will receive $1 million to restore Good Fellow Lodge. The funding will be used to install a new municipal water line to the lodge, which would be the first step in a much needed restoration effort to the historically significant structure. The lodge is deteriorating and there is a fear that it will collapse and have to be removed completely. The restoration of the lodge will allow the Indiana Dunes Learning Center to expand its educational programs. This project will help provide valuable hands-on learning experiences that inspire community and environmental stewardship among the citizens of Northwest Indiana. According to figures from the National Park Service, 2.1 million people visit the Lakeshore each year, generating $55.3 million in local revenues. “Save the Dunes is grateful to Congressman Visclosky for obtaining $1 million to install a new municipal water line to Good Fellow Lodge, part of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. This project will provide safe, clean water for children at the Indiana Dunes Environmental Learning Center and it will provide a water supply in case of fire. In addition, we thank Pete for supporting the $475 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This funding will set a new direction for protecting and restoring our nation's largest source of freshwater and will help improve the quality of life for residents of Northwest Indiana and the Great Lakes,” said Tom Anderson, executive director of Save the Dunes Council. The City of Portage will receive $800,000 for water infrastructure improvements. The funding will be used to complete the second phase of improvements at the existing water reclamation facility, which includes enhancements to the solids handling infrastructure to accommodate increased biosolids production associated with increased flows. The project will allow economic development in Portage while assuring water quality. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, funded at $475 million, will use outcome-oriented performance goals and measures to target the most significant problems and track progress in addressing them. The interagency initiative will work with state and local governments, as well as industry, to protect, maintain, and restore the chemical, biological, and physical integrity of the Great Lakes. The initiative’s long term goals include increasing recreational activity on the lakes, assuring safe drinking water, and providing a healthy ecosystem for fish and wildlife.
10.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, along with 34 other bipartisan members of the Caucus, today sent the following letter to Speaker Pelosi urging passage of a surface transportation authorization bill as soon as possible in order to support job creation and advance the nation’s economic recovery: October 22, 2009 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi U.S. House of Representatives H232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: We are writing as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to share our strong support for passage of a surface transportation authorization bill as soon as possible in order to help grow jobs and aid in our nation’s economic recovery. Providing federal funds for infrastructure projects provides jobs and revenue to state and local communities, and has a positive impact on a wide array of individuals from steel producers, to suppliers, to manufacturers of goods. As you may know, a Department of Transportation study reported that every $1 billion invested in federal highways supports nearly 35,000 American jobs. Timely infrastructure funding will truly be the second stimulus package. In order to continue to be a global leader, the U.S. must upgrade its crumbling infrastructure. For years we haven’t invested enough funding to sustain our current infrastructure, let alone keep up with our expanding needs. The American Society of Civil Engineers has estimated that $1.6 trillion is needed over a five year period to bring the nation’s infrastructure to a “good condition.” We support providing adequate levels of funding in the reauthorization for all federal infrastructure needs, including highways, waterways, rail, aviation, and pipelines. Again, we believe that it is vitally important for Congress to take on the surface transportation reauthorization bill in an expeditious manner. The uncertainty from a series of extensions and stop-gap funding measures will have a negative impact on states, contractors, suppliers, and small businesses, and will only continue to inhibit our economic recovery. Sincerely, Rep. PETE VISCLOSKY, Chairman Rep. TIM MURPHY, Vice Chairman Rep. JASON ALTMIRE Rep. MICHAEL ARCURI Rep. MARION BERRY Rep. ROB BISHOP Rep. JOHN BOCCIERI Rep. LEONARD BOSWELL Rep. BRUCE BRALEY Rep. G. K. BUTTERFIELD Rep. CHRISTOPHER CARNEY Rep. JERRY COSTELLO Rep. KATHY DAHLKEMPER Rep. JOE DONNELLY Rep. MIKE DOYLE Rep. DEBBIE HALVORSON Rep. PHIL HARE Rep. TIM HOLDEN Rep. JESSE JACKSON, Jr. Rep. MARCY KAPTUR Rep. DENNIS KUCINICH Rep. STEVEN LATOURETTE Rep. DANIEL LIPINSKI Rep. DAVE LOEBSACK Rep. ALAN MOLLOHAN Rep. JOHN MURTHA Rep. TIM RYAN Rep. JOHN SHIMKUS Rep. MARK SOUDER Rep. ZACK SPACE Rep. JOHN SPRATT Rep. BART STUPAK Rep. BETTY SUTTON Rep. CHARLIE WILSON Rep. JOE WILSON Rep. JOHN YARMUTH Cc: Majority Leader Steny Hoyer Majority Whip James Clyburn Chief Deputy Majority Whip John Lewis Chairman James Oberstar Ranking Member John Mica Chairman Peter DeFazio Ranking Member John Duncan
10.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has opened the application process for the Spring 2010 U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Page Program. One Northwest Indiana high school student will be nominated to participate in the program, which will run from January 24, 2010, to June 4, 2010, at the U.S. Capitol. “The House Page Program is a unique opportunity for gifted high school students to spend a semester working for Congress in the U.S. Capitol,” said Visclosky. “The experience is both fun and educational, and I strongly recommend that all interested, eligible students apply.” In order to be eligible a student must be a junior in high school, at least sixteen years of age, but no older than seventeen years of age at any point during the term in which they serve. In addition, the student must have a minimum cumulative academic grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 in English, Math, Science, Social Studies, and a foreign language for the 9th and 10th grades, as well as a 3.0 GPA in those subjects in the current school term. The application deadline is Friday, November 6, 2009. Interested students should contact Visclosky’s Merrillville office at 219-795-1844 to request an application. Principals at all Northwest Indiana high schools will receive notification of the application process. House pages serve primarily as messengers, carrying important documents between congressional offices, committees, and the House chamber. They also prepare the chamber for each day’s business, assist in the operations of each party’s cloakroom, tend to the House chamber while Congress is in session, and raise and lower the flag on the roof of the House side of the Capitol. Pages are paid for their service and live in the supervised House Page Residence Hall near the Capitol, but must cover the costs of their transportation to and from Washington and their page uniforms. Visclosky is eligible to nominate one congressional page for the spring 2010 term. There are 72 House page positions, with two-thirds for the majority party and one-third for the minority party, and Members of Congress sponsor pages on a rotating basis.
10.14.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has issued three grants to Northwest Indiana for housing counseling. The grants, which will go to the Housing Authority of the City of Hammond, Housing Opportunities, Inc., in Porter County, and the Lake County Community Economic Development Department, are intended to help families and individuals improve their housing conditions. “A decent, stable housing situation is one of the keys to living a productive life,” said Visclosky. “These grants will help expand homeownership opportunities in Northwest Indiana, improve access to affordable housing, and advance people’s financial literacy. They will help us rebuild our local economy and raise the quality of life for everybody in the region.” The grants may support a wide variety of housing counseling services for homebuyers, homeowners, low- to moderate-income renters, and the homeless with the objectives of improving financial literacy, expanding and preserving homeownership, and improving access to affordable housing. In addition to helping families and individuals improve their housing conditions and meet the responsibilities of tenancy and homeownership, counselors may also help borrowers avoid inflated appraisals, unreasonably high interest rates, unaffordable repayment terms, and other conditions that can result in a loss of equity, increased debt, default, and foreclosure. What is more, counselors may help elderly homeowners convert equity in their homes into income that can be used to pay for medical costs, living expenses, and other expenses. The Housing authority of the City of Hammond will receive a $37,480 grant, Housing Opportunities, Inc., in Porter County will receive a $40,000 grant, and the Lake County Community Economic Development Department will receive a $45,000 grant.
10.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has issued two grants to Northwest Indiana to improve community safety. The Boys and Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana will receive a grant for the University Park/Glen Park Weed and Seed community-based initiative for law enforcement, crime prevention, and community revitalization. The Highland Police Department will receive a grant to reduce and prevent child endangerment and protect the community from sexual predators. “The hardworking, law-abiding citizens of Northwest Indiana should not have to worry about threats from drug dealers, sexual predators, and other criminals,” said Visclosky. “Providing local law enforcement and other community safety agencies with the resources they need to keep us secure is one of my top priorities, and these grants will help rid our streets of crime and violence.” The Boys and Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana will receive a grant to continue the University Park/Glen Park Weed and Seed initiative. Officially recognized in 2005, Weed and Seed is a community-based strategy to take an innovative, comprehensive multiagency approach to policing, crime prevention, and neighborhood revitalization. Policing goals for the effort include expanding opportunities for citizen input on police programs and services, reducing criminal activities in and around abandoned buildings, decreasing residents’ fear of retaliation, and eliminating gangs. Crime prevention efforts will focus on promoting positive parenting and offering positive role models for youth, developing a safe haven, and improving healthcare services. Neighborhood revitalization efforts will focus on improving the physical condition of buildings, removing abandoned and vacant structures, building new and improved housing, and enhancing neighborhood aesthetics. The Boys and Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana will utilize a $142,000 grant for these efforts. The Highland Police Department will receive a grant under the Child Sexual Predator Program, which is aimed at reducing and preventing child endangerment and protecting communities from sexual predators. The program is intended to help locate, arrest, and prosecute sexual predators and exploiters, and enforce state sex offender registration laws. It is also designed to collectively address the problem through strong partnerships between law enforcement, U.S. Attorney Offices and U.S. Marshals, as well as other community partners such as parole and probation offices, social services agencies, and state and local prosecutors. The Highland Police Department will receive a $470,501 grant.
10.01.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that a total of 9 local water and environmental infrastructure projects and advanced energy research initiatives will receive a combined $43.8 million in federal assistance. The funding, which will support critical infrastructure and cutting edge research, is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report today, and the legislation is expected to pass the Senate shortly and be signed into law by the President. “The work supported in this bill will have a profound impact on Northwest Indiana’s economy, job market, environment, and quality of life,” said Visclosky. “From job-creating construction projects such as the Little Calumet River Flood Control Project that reduces the costly risk of flooding for thousands of homes and businesses, to the Marquette Plan that opens up our Lake Michigan Shoreline for public access and creates economic development opportunities nearby, to cutting edge research into renewable energy technologies that creates new economic opportunities, these initiatives will have a lasting positive impact on the region. I am proud to support these projects that will make Northwest Indiana a better, more prosperous place for all of us to live.”$37.8 million for Water and Environmental Infrastructure The Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project will receive $20 million. Once complete, the project will include 22 miles of levees and flood walls that protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that flooding on the Little Calumet River causes $11 million in damages annually. Flooding last fall caused considerably more damage in those communities and the completion of the flood control project will protect homes and businesses to minimize the costs associated with flooding. Other project components include the installation of a control structure at Hart Ditch, building almost 17 miles of hiking trails, and preserving over 500 acres of wetlands. Indiana Harbor is slated to receive $13.5 million for the construction of a confined dredged material disposal facility (CDF) on a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) site located in East Chicago. The project will dredge the federal channel to authorized navigation depths, and will also include the removal of sediment in adjacent berthing and docking areas at non-federal expense. The Marquette Plan, Visclosky’s initiative to open up Northwest Indiana’s Lake Michigan shoreline for public access to improve quality of life and create economic opportunities nearby, will receive $3 million to begin design and implementation efforts for ecosystem restoration and management of contaminants for ecological and economic purposes for sites along the Lake Michigan waterfront in Lake and Porter Counties. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will utilize $800,000 designated for the shoreline erosion project at the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to support additional sand placement along Lake Michigan. Harbor structures outside of the Lakeshore interrupt the natural movement of sand within the park and accelerate the erosion of beaches and dunes. The funding will be used to combat the accelerated erosion by strategically placing additional sand on the beaches and dunes. The Grand Calumet River project will receive $500,000 to complete the feasibility phase and begin preliminary engineering and design to improve water quality and enhance aquatic and terrestrial habitat.$6 million for Advanced Energy Research Purdue University Calumet will receive $5.5 million for three advanced research programs, and Valparaiso University will receive $500,000 for another. First, $3 million will go to Purdue University Calumet’s Center for Innovation through Visualization and Simulation (CIVS) to support further expansion of computational tools and equipment. The CIVS provides an innovative way to learn and understand extremely complex information through visualizing, manipulating, and interacting with computer-generated simulations and models, as well as allows users to interact with three dimensional computerized environments. Rapid advancements in computation speeds, sophisticated graphics, and numerical methods enable the widespread use of simulation, including the design and optimization of industrial systems. For example, Purdue Calumet’s visualization laboratory made it possible for researchers to simulate wear inside steelmaking blast furnaces, see how erosion in the furnaces is distributed, and evaluate ways to decrease damage. Second, Purdue University Calumet will receive $2 million for the Energy Efficiency & Water Institute Research Facility. The funding will support the expansion and equipping of laboratory and research space for two academic research programs, the Energy, Efficiency and Reliability Center and the Water Institute Research Facility. The project will modify 4,400 square feet of research and lab space and equip the facility with fume hoods, computer analysis stations, microscopes, and other equipment that allow students and faculty to conduct cutting edge research. Third, Purdue University Calumet, along with Purdue West Lafayette, will receive $500,000 for the Comprehensive Wind Energy Program. The funding will support efforts to expand a research and development program for engineers focusing on wind technologies. The first aspect of the project will be the construction of a wind turbine and improvements to the existing wind tunnel research infrastructure. The second aspect will support research activities focused on turbine design and development, aerodynamic modeling and simulation, and additional scope essential to the successful deployment of cost-effective wind technologies. Finally, Valparaiso University will receive $500,000 for its Solar Furnace Research Program. The funding will support an interdisciplinary program for undergraduate and faculty research on solar energy. The program will utilize a solar furnace, a device that concentrates sunlight to produce heat, for research into ways to harness sunlight to produce materials that can be used as sources of energy.
09.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has delivered federal resources to support the YWCA of Northwest Indiana’s “Yes We CAn” youth program to promote academic achievement among at-risk kids. “A nurturing environment offers kids a place to go to receive the help and support they need to say no to drugs and choose education instead,” said Visclosky. “The YWCA’s ‘Yes We CAn!’ program creates opportunities for many kids to engage in constructive activities and lead meaningful lives. I am proud to support the program and commend the YWCA for its positive impact on the lives of many.” “With just a few weeks into the new school year our popular ‘Yes We CAn!’ after-school program already has a waiting list of more than 20 children,” said YWCA Interim Executive Director Boni Fine. “This grant assures that this effective program will continue to improve the school performance of the children we serve as well as enable us to launch a new program for teen girls in Gary in the spring.” The YWCA’s youth program “Yes We CAn!” provides after-school and summer activities designed to improve academic achievement and decrease at-risk behaviors for children living in disadvantaged, low-income communities impacted by health and educational attainment disparities. During the school year, students from kindergarten through eight grade attend daily after-school tutoring sessions and recreational activities designed to create a safe-haven for learning and shaping youth ideologies to live healthy and positive lifestyles. During the summer, youths and their families participate in personal development and recreational activities designed to strengthen family bonds. The program serves 100 children, ages 5 to 18, and is expanding to include a new after-school program focusing on prevention and intervention for at-risk teenaged girls. The YWCA of Northwest Indiana will utilize $850,000 Visclosky secured for it in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act.
09.28.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana and the collaborative effort Community Organizations for Families and Youth (COFFY) have received a $500,000 grant for the “Community of Mentors Support Program.” Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana, along with the COFFY partners Legacy Foundation, Inc., Edgewater Systems for Balanced Living, and Student African American Brotherhood Association, will improve their mentoring program by enhancing the training and support available to mentors so that they are equipped to create and maintain lasting relationships with their mentees. “Mentors are positive role models who empower kids to succeed in school and in life,” said Visclosky. “I believe that every child deserves the opportunity to get a decent education, and I appreciate the way mentors enable their mentees to engage in constructive activities, focus on their studies, and get ahead in life. Many children in Northwest Indiana will benefit from this program, and I commend the Boys and Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana and COFFY for their positive impact on our community.” The goal of this program’s collective effort is to fill the gap for numerous “at risk” children, ages 10-17, who do not have a safe place with caring adult guidance to help them transition from childhood to adulthood. An emphasis will be placed on the percent of mentors successfully completing training, the percent of trained mentors with increased knowledge of the program area, and the rate of mentor retention. Boys and Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana, as the fiscal agent, will utilize funding with its partners to focus on providing support and training opportunities for mentors to create and maintain lasting relationships with program participants and caring adults. “Research indicates that children become more successful when they have guidance from a caring adult – especially guidance from a caring adult relationship that lasts longer than one year,” states Lincoln D. Ellis, president and CEO of Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana. “The funding we just received will allow our organization, plus several COFFY partnering agencies, to work on connecting youth and adults together to maintain a lasting relationship that will not only benefit a child – but the adult mentor as well. We are thrilled that our program was recognized as valuable by the Department of Justice.” Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana was founded in 1954 in Gary, Indiana. Currently, the organization operates six Club sites in cities throughout Lake County, Indiana, including Lake Station, Hammond, Gary, East Chicago, Cedar Lake, and Merrillville. Serving more than 10,000 youth annually, 6 to 18 years of age, the organization provides programs that promote and enhance the positive development of boys and girls. The core beliefs of the organization, Board of Directors, staff, and donors are that all Club sites provide youth with a safe place to learn and grow, teach youth to develop interpersonal relationships, provide youth with life-enhancing programs and character and development experiences and, last but not least, continue to provide youth with hope and opportunity. For more information visit www.bgcnwi.org. Community Organizations for Families and Youth (COFFY) is an operating, loosely configured, action-oriented and powerful body that oversees a boundless large group that aids, secures and empowers families and youth. As a committed group of empowering social service agencies, COFFY’s common goal is to build a strong foundation and capacity to serve youth and families residing in Gary, Indiana. Its mission is to maintain a network of community organizations providing opportunities that lead to the healthy transformation of Gary, Indiana, through interactive services for youth and families. For more information visit www.coffy.org.
09.18.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Portage and Valparaiso Police Departments will receive federal assistance to obtain essential equipment aimed at enhancing law enforcement services provided to the community. “Police officers maintain law and order on our streets and deserve every ounce of support we can give them to perform their jobs safely and effectively,” said Visclosky. “In this time of tight municipal budgets, federal assistance is more important than ever to ensure our police officers have the resources they need to protect and serve our communities. I am proud to support our police officers.” The federal assistance is intended to support the prevention and control of crime and improve the criminal justice system by helping local law enforcement agencies acquire critical equipment. The Portage Police Department will purchase Tasers, and the Valparaiso Police Department will purchase mobile computer units for its detective bureau. Together, the Cities of Portage and Valparaiso will use a U.S. Department of Justice Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program award in the amount of $34,550 for these equipment acquisitions. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program allows local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice such as law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections programs, drug treatment and enforcement programs, planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs, and crime victim and witness programs.
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which makes the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college in U.S. history, at no additional cost to taxpayers. The bill, which also includes a Buy American provision for its school construction provisions, passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 253 to 171. “Expanding access to an affordable college education is a surefire way to build a stronger, more competitive economy for years to come,” said Visclosky. “Making college more affordable for Northwest Indiana’s students and their families will prepare people for good paying jobs and advance efforts to diversify our economy and create new opportunities in the region.” The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act reforms the system of federal student loans to save taxpayers $87 billion by originating new loans through the government’s Direct Loan program, while maintaining competition among private lenders and non-profit organizations to provide top-notch customer service for student borrowers. It reinvests $77 billion of those savings in education, while returning $10 billion to the Treasury. Among its many provisions, the bill invests $40 billion in the Pell Grant scholarship, to keep interest rates affordable on need-based federal student loans, to simplify the federal student aid application process, and in other forms of aid that will help low-income, middle class, and minority students pay for and complete college. The bill increases the maximum Pell Grant from $5,350 this year to $5,550 in 2010 and $6,900 in 2019, and keeps interest rates low on subsidized federal student loans. The Department of Education projects that over 22,500 students in Northwest Indiana will be eligible for a Pell Grant in the next academic year, and the combined value of those grants could near $85 million in student aid. In addition to making college more affordable, the bill invests $4.2 billion for the purpose of modernizing, renovating, and repairing public school facilities. The bill applies Visclosky’s Buy American principle toward this investment in school infrastructure, requiring the use of American iron and steel in these school construction projects. “I am pleased that the Buy American provision is included in this legislation, as it will help preserve and create steelworker jobs while we advance new opportunities for our children,” said Visclosky. “Students deserve modern, safe, structurally sound schools, and the way to build them is with American steel made by American workers.”
09.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Valparaiso University will receive federal assistance provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to give undergraduate students experience in math research. The support from the National Science Foundation is intended to give students solid career preparation while increasing American competitiveness in science, technology, engineering, and math. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was designed to create jobs now while giving our economy strength for years to come,” said Visclosky. “This investment supports some of Northwest Indiana’s best and brightest young mathematicians in their scientific inquiry and career development so that the region can develop high tech industry and the nation can remain competitive in science and technology.” The program will provide students with experience in math research and is expected to stimulate their interest in pursuing careers in science, technology, engineering, and math. By providing the research experiences of a mathematician, the program will produce students engaged with, and prepared to join, the mathematical community. In each project, the participants will investigate open questions of interest to the larger mathematical community, and yield potentially publishable results. The program will emphasize the professional development of the students not only through the new material the students will learn while conducting their research, but also by developing the presentation and writing skills of the participants. Valparaiso University will utilize a $240,688 National Science Foundation grant for the program.
09.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that local law enforcement agencies in Lake County will receive federal assistance for overtime, equipment, supplies, and information systems to support their efforts to prevent and control crime. “With local budgets tight, I am proud to bring resources to bear that will help our law enforcement officers continue to keep our streets safe from crime,” said Visclosky. “Police risk their lives every day to protect our communities and we owe it to them to provide them with the tools they need to safely execute their jobs.” The disparate jurisdictions consisting of Lake County and the cities of East Chicago, Gary, Hammond, Hobart, and Merrillville will use a U.S. Department of Justice Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program award in the amount of $366,322 to support the needs of the local law enforcement agencies in the areas of overtime, equipment, supplies, and information systems. These funds will assist in the prevention and control of crime, and improve the criminal justice system. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program allows local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice such as law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections programs, drug treatment and enforcement programs, planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs, and crime victim and witness programs. The East Chicago and Merrillville Police Departments have determined that they will use their funding for overtime. The Hammond Police Department will obtain surveillance cameras and accessories to serve as crime deterrents. The Hobart Police Department will use funds to acquire a myriad of law enforcement tools that are essential to the Department. The Gary Police Department will use the funds to enhance the investigations of both Internal Affairs and the Detective Bureaus by obtaining voice stress analyzer units which the department has used with considerable success in previous years. The Gary Police Department will also acquire four Segways, and four All Terrain Vehicles to be used in search and rescue exercises along the substantial Lake Michigan lakefront as well as hilly forested areas adjoining beaches and lakefront residences.
09.14.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Porter County Municipal Airport, an important local economic engine, will receive federal assistance to construct a taxiway and conduct wildlife hazard assessments. The infrastructure improvements will create jobs immediately and help increase the airport’s ability to spur local economic development in the future. “Airports help generate business and spur economic development,” said Visclosky. “This work at the airport will result in construction jobs today that will lay the foundation for increased economic opportunities tomorrow. The busy airport plays an important role in the local economy and advances commerce in the region.” According to data from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Porter County Municipal Airport is home to more than 150 aircraft and supports nearly 37,000 aviation operations annually. The airport will utilize a $303,278 grant from the FAA to construct taxiways and to conduct a Wildlife Hazard Assessment. The work will include bituminous pavement for Taxiways D1 and E1 that is needed to provide aircraft access to the new Northwest Corporate Development Area, and the Wildlife Hazard Assessment will identify the wildlife species observed and assess their numbers, locations, local movement, and daily and seasonal activities. These projects are consistent with the airport’s efforts to meet the growing community needs and stimulate future business in the area. The funding was awarded through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which is intended to support improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. To be eligible for a grant, an airport must be included in the National Plan for Integrated Airport Systems, which identifies public-use airports that are important to public transportation and contribute to the needs of civil aviation, national defense, and the postal service.
09.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, today lead 14 other members of the Caucus in urging Commerce Secretary Gary Locke not to allow the Foreign-Trade Zones subzone loophole that would allow companies to avoid paying antidumping and countervailing duties on unfair imports. The following is their letter to Secretary Locke: September 11, 2009 The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Locke: As members of the Congressional Steel Caucus we want to express our deep concern about the use of the Foreign-Trade Zones (FTZ) program as a means of undermining the trade relief that domestic industries have obtained under the antidumping and countervailing duty laws. It has come to our attention that companies are now requesting FTZ subzones in order to be able to consume dumped inputs from China and other countries to produce exported merchandise at their U.S. plants without paying antidumping duties. This device evades compliance with U.S. trade laws and poses a very serious threat to U.S. industries targeted by unfair imports and their workers. The steel industry, other domestic producers, and labor unions that rely on the antidumping and countervailing duty laws are gravely concerned about this new duty-avoidance strategy. In the current economic environment where plant shutdowns and job losses are common in our districts, it is particularly critical that the Foreign-Trade Zones Board not allow this device to be used to undercut our trade laws as they were intended to be implemented. We recognize that the Board requires antidumping and countervailing duties to be paid when merchandise produced in an FTZ using dumped or subsidized inputs enters the U.S. for consumption. However, that Board requirement does not address the use of subzones to avoid paying antidumping and countervailing duties when products made in an FTZ with dumped or subsidized inputs are exported. Recently there was a hearing before the Foreign-Trade Zone Board regarding this important issue, and in response we urge you to close the Foreign-Trade Zones loophole and take the necessary steps to see that the Foreign-Trade Zones program is not jeopardized by the approval of subzones that undercut our trade laws. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please do not hesitate to contact any of our offices if you need additional information. Sincerely, Rep. PETER J. VISCLOSKY Rep. CHARLIE WILSON Rep. JOHN MURTHA Rep. ALAN MOLLOHAN Rep. TIM HOLDEN Rep. DAN LIPINSKI Rep. JOHN BOCCIERI Rep. CHRIS CARNEY Rep. DEBBIE HALVORSON Rep. BART STUPAK Rep. JIM OBERSTAR Rep. MIKE DOYLE Rep. DENNIS KUCINICH Rep. BETTY SUTTON Rep. NICK RAHALL
09.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Kentland Municipal Airport, an important local economic engine, will receive federal assistance for its runway extension project. The infrastructure improvements will create immediate construction jobs and help increase the airport’s ability to spur local economic development into the future. “Airports are an important element of the local economic infrastructure that can help generate commerce and spur economic development,” said Visclosky. “In Kentland, efforts are underway to utilize the airport to create economic opportunities for local residents and attract new businesses to the area. These improvements to the airport mean construction jobs today will lay the foundation for increased economic development tomorrow.” Kentland Municipal Airport serves six counties in Indiana and Illinois. The airport has numerous business flights in and out daily and its viability is essential in the town’s attempts to lure companies to the area. Further, the airport serves as a base for aerial crop dusters, which benefits the surrounding agricultural lands. The U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $323,000 grant to Kentland Municipal Airport that will go toward burying and lowering utility lines in the approach to Runway 9. The work is part of the efforts to extend Runway 9/27, which will provide the runway length needed for the critical aircraft using the airport. The funding was awarded through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which is intended to support improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. To be eligible for a grant, an airport must be included in the National Plan for Integrated Airport Systems, which identifies public-use airports that are important to public transportation and contribute to the needs of civil aviation, national defense, and the postal service.
09.10.2009	Washington, D.C. —Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, along with nine other bipartisan members of the Caucus’ Executive Committee, today sent the following letter to President Obama urging him to set a precedent for trade law enforcement and prevent unfair trading practices by accepting the U.S. International Trade Commission’s recommendation of a Section 421 safeguard against unfair Chinese imports: September 10, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write today as members of the Executive Committee of the Congressional Steel Caucus to urge you to accept the recommendation of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in the case submitted by the United Steelworkers (USW) under Section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding passenger vehicle and light truck tire imports from China. The Congressional Steel Caucus is well acquainted with the harmful effects of Chinese trading practices, such as dumping, currency misalignment, and subsidization. The Caucus also has been involved with several Section 421 cases in the recent past involving steel, including investigations of Chinese circular welded non-alloy steel pipe, ductile iron waterworks fittings, and steel wire garment hangers. We strongly believe in the legitimacy and importance of the Section 421 safeguard, and were pleased that the ITC voted in the affirmative for the steel cases and that relief was recommended for domestic producers. Declining to implement the ITC recommendations in the past has resulted in devastating losses to the steel manufacturing communities we represent. In the July 2009 ITC investigation of certain passenger vehicle and light truck tires from China, the agency concluded that the import surge had injured domestic workers, and recommended tariffs over a three-year period to give the industry a chance to recover and prevent additional job losses. As this is your first opportunity to implement the recommendation of the ITC in a Section 421 case, we ask that you set a precedent for the validity and use of the Section 421 safeguard, and demonstrate our country’s ability to enforce our trade laws and prevent unfair trading practices. Sincerely, Rep. PETER J. VISCLOSKY, Chairman Rep. TIM MURPHY, Vice Chairman Rep. CHARLIE WILSON Rep. ROBERT ADERHOLT Rep. MARK SOUDER Rep. JOHN MURTHA Rep. ALAN MOLLOHAN Rep. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO Rep. STEVEN LATOURETTE Rep. DENNIS KUCINICH Rep. BART STUPAK
09.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified at the U.S. International Trade Commission’s hearing on “Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate from 3 Countries,” urging the commissioners to uphold U.S trade law, defend American steelworkers against unfair competitors, and ensure the American steel industry’s role in economic recovery efforts. The following is Visclosky’s testimony, as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Chairman Aranoff and members of the U.S. International Trade Commission for the opportunity to testify before you today with respect to this extension of anti-dumping orders on cut-to-length steel plate from China and an extension of the suspension agreements for the same imports from Russia and the Ukraine. I also would like to thank each member of the Commission for your steadfast efforts to ensure the efficacy of our trade laws. I truly value the hard work and the serious consideration you place in all of your cases and, as always, I appreciate your willingness to hear my position at public hearings such as this. “Today, I stand before you as the United States Representative for the First Congressional District of Indiana and as the Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus. As part of the Steel Caucus’ efforts to shed light on the concerns of steelworkers and steel manufacturers, we held a hearing on June 16, 2009, which received testimony from steelworkers and steel industry representatives regarding the state of the steel industry. Richard McCormack, who testified at the hearing and is the editor of Manufacturing and Technology News, summed up the tone of the hearing well by picking out several phrases used throughout the hearing, including “scary time,” “devastation,” “can’t survive,” and “lowest point in the history of the nation.” “There is no doubt that this is a most critical time for our steel industry, as it was also highlighted at the hearing that the steel industry has never seen such a precipitous decline in orders from one year ago. While the steel industry is currently at 55 percent capacity utilization, one year ago it was at 90 percent, and on average this year the industry is at 46 percent. “My district includes an ArcelorMittal plant at Burns Harbor that makes cut-to-length steel plate, and that plant has laid off more than 250 employees this past year. As you know, steel plate’s primary use is in construction, bridges, railroad equipment, line pipe, and energy infrastructure like wind towers. The use of this product is a critical component to revitalizing our economy, ensuring the safety of our infrastructure, and providing stable jobs for American workers. “That is why I offered the Buy American Amendment to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. This Amendment requires that American steel be used in all stimulus projects, ensuring that American steel plate is used to strengthen our bridges, our railroads, our infrastructure, and our economy. “You also are in a position to ensure that American steel is the foundation of our economic recovery with this case. The issue before you today is that China, Russia, and the Ukraine are violating our trade laws, and we must protect our industries and their employees from their injurious practices. If we are to maintain a manufacturing base in the United States, we must have zero tolerance for unfair and illegal imports. “As we work to rebuild our economy, we cannot leave ourselves vulnerable to illegally subsidized imports from others who will be tempted to dump their steel here, and we must ensure that the letter and spirit of our laws are followed and, when appropriate and necessary, to impose warranted sanctions under the law. “Therefore, I strongly urge you to maintain the anti-dumping orders on cut-to-length steel plate from China, and the suspension agreements from Russia and the Ukraine. I thank you again for the opportunity to testify, I applaud your vigilance against illegal trade efforts in all types of steel and in all sectors of our economy.”
09.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced support for Lake County to build viable urban communities through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and HOME program. The HUD initiatives are designed to increase homeownership, support community development, and increase access to affordable housing in order to strengthen the local economy. “Everybody should have reasonable access to decent, affordable housing and economic opportunities,” said Visclosky. “CDBG and HOME are designed to help create urban communities with affordable housing options, in turn spurring economic development and jobs for local residents. People across Lake County will benefit from these programs.” CDBG provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. The CDBG program works to ensure decent affordable housing, to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities, and to create jobs through the expansion and retention of businesses. CDBG is an important tool for helping local governments tackle serious challenges facing their communities, awarding grants to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income people. Lake County will receive $1,337,688 through CDBG. HOME provides communities with grants to fund a wide range of activities that help expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low income families. HOME grants may be used to provide home purchase or rehabilitation financing assistance to eligible homeowners and new homebuyers, to build or rehabilitate housing for rent or ownership, or for other efforts related to the development of housing. Lake County will receive $682,008 through HOME.
09.08.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky’s Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center Partnership Act, a bill to enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and raise the quality of life in Northwest Indiana, today passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote. “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is Northwest Indiana’s most prized public land,” said Visclosky. “From its hiking trails to its learning opportunities to its beautiful beaches, people of all ages and walks of life enjoy the dunes. This bill will help protect more of the unique dunes ecosystems so that local residents can continue to benefit from the park and enjoy a higher quality of life.” The Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center Partnership Act is designed to help preserve, protect, and restore the Lakeshore for everybody’s benefit. Specifically, Visclosky’s bill permits, but does not require, the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations of lands located outside the present boundaries of the Lakeshore if they are contiguous with the park or separated by only a right-of-way. At present, the Secretary of the Interior cannot accept such donations and Visclosky’s bill makes a minor technical correction to allow at-will donations. The change has no fiscal impact and will allow the Lakeshore to expand by the generosity of those wishing to enhance it. Additionally, Visclosky’s bill grants the Secretary of the Interior the authority to enter into a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint partnership with Porter County to improve services at the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center. The partnership will allow the National Park Service and the Porter County Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Commission to develop a plan to maximize the efficiency of the Visitor Center and enhance the visitor experience. The bill also authorizes $1.5 million to develop exhibits for the Visitor Center. Presently, the General Services Administration negotiates the lease and transferring that power to the Department of the Interior will provide increased flexibility and projected cost savings. “More than 2 million people visit Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore each year, most of them from outside Northwest Indiana,” said Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Superintendent Costa Dillon. “The Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center offers these visitors a one-stop opportunity to plan their visit to the national and state parks and to learn more about opportunities offered by the surrounding communities. We are pleased to be a part of this partnership.” “Save the Dunes thanks Pete Visclosky for his hard work to recognize Dorothy Buell, first president of Save the Dunes Council by the passage of H.R. 1287,” said Tom Anderson, executive director of Save the Dunes Council. “We are lucky to have people like Pete Visclosky, the late Dorothy Buell and other great supporters, working hard to make Northwest Indiana a better place for our children and grandchildren.” “I am grateful to those in Northwest Indiana and in Congress who worked with me to pass this important legislation,” said Visclosky. “I hope the Senate acts quickly to send this bill to the President’s desk so that the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore can continue to mature as a park and resource for the people of Northwest Indiana.”
09.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Senators Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh and Congressmen Pete Visclosky and Joe Donnelly today sent the following letter to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) expressing their support for Governor Mitch Daniels’ request that the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program be implemented in Porter County: September 4, 2009 Mr. Frank Skaggs, Director Office of Disaster Assistance Field Operations Center – East U.S. Small Business Administration 101 Marietta Street Northwest, Suite 700 Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Dear Mr. Skaggs: We write today to ask for your expedited approval of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request that the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Disaster Loan Program be implemented in Porter County, Indiana. As a result of severe storms and a tornado that occurred on August 19, 2009, the Town of Chesterton and the surrounding communities sustained serious damage, and we fully support the Governor’s request. The Governor has certified that at least 25 homes and or businesses have sustained at least a 40 percent uninsured loss compared to their fair replacement value, and debris continues to be cleared. Based upon this damage, timely assistance is essential to ensure that the homes and businesses impacted are able to recover in a suitable manner. We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor’s request as quickly as possible, and appreciate your serious attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you in any way to ensure that those affected receive the appropriate assistance. Sincerely, Sen. RICHARD LUGAR Sen. EVAN BAYH Rep. PETER J. VISCLOSKY Rep. JOE DONNELLY
09.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has delivered important help for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) to continue execution of its South Shore Line capital reinvestment plan. The work on improvements to the commuter rail line, which include new traffic control and power distribution systems, will create jobs and increase operational flexibility, reliability, and capacity to meet increases in demand. “The South Shore Line is an important economic resource for Northwest Indiana, linking local residents to good-paying jobs in Chicago and generating commerce in the region,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to support NICTD’s capital reinvestment efforts, which will create some much-needed jobs in the near future while improving South Shore Line service for the riders of tomorrow. The net impact on Northwest Indiana will be more jobs and economic opportunities.” NICTD General Manager Gerald Hanas stated, “We want to thank Congressman Visclosky for his keen insight in supporting continued investment in Northwest Indiana's commuter rail infrastructure. This is a sound investment now and will also foster mobility for future generations.” Visclosky’s support will help NICTD execute its South Shore Line Capital Reinvestment Plan. NICTD operates more than 12,800 trains annually, carrying more than 4.2 million passengers to high-paying Chicago jobs, and riders return in excess of $225 million in salaries and wages to Northwest Indiana’s economy. To maintain this service, the old signal and power distribution systems must be replaced. NICTD will utilize a $4,950,000 grant that Visclosky secured in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act to design and build new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems that will increase operational flexibility and reliability, and enlarge capacity to meet increases in demand. The funding is now available from the U.S. Department of Transportation.
08.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana’s five community health centers will jointly purchase medical equipment in order to continue to provide critical healthcare to the region’s uninsured and under-insured. The community health centers provide important access to quality healthcare for people who would otherwise struggle to find the treatments they need. “Every American deserves access to quality healthcare, and community health centers provide a vital service to those in Northwest Indiana who otherwise wouldn’t be able to secure the care they need to live healthy, productive lives,” said Visclosky. “Quality healthcare at an affordable price should be available to every citizen in this country, and community health centers help make it available to the people who need it most.” “I am really thrilled with the attention that Congressman Visclosky gives to healthcare,” said NorthShore Health Centers CEO Janice Wilson. “By providing grants like this to all the centers in the region, it helps us to better serve the uninsured and under-insured, especially in this economic crisis. He is the champion of healthcare in Northwest Indiana.” By jointly purchasing important medical equipment, Northwest Indiana’s five community health centers will be able to leverage group purchasing power and defray costs. Community health centers serve the uninsured and under-insured through efforts to overcome the many impediments people face while trying to access healthcare. The centers operate extended hours to accommodate patients’ work schedules and charge a sliding fee scale so that patients can afford to get the care they need. By increasing access to quality care and keeping people healthy, the community health centers enable people to stay in the workforce, engage in economic activity, and lead productive lives. There are an estimated 77,000 uninsured individuals in Northwest Indiana. Northwest Indiana’s five community health centers are East Chicago Community Health Center, Gary Community Health Center, Hilltop Community Health Center in Valparaiso, NorthShore Community Health Center – Lake Station, and NorthShore Community Health Center – Portage. They will utilize a $377,190 grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration that Visclosky secured in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act.
07.31.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for a bill to provide stop-gap funding for the Car Allowance Rebate System program, commonly known as Cash for Clunkers. The bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 316 to 109, extends funding for Cash for Clunkers, which has been so successful in encouraging Americans to trade in their old gas guzzlers for new fuel-efficient cars, that funding ran out in a matter of days. “By making fuel efficient cars more affordable and accessible, Cash for Clunkers helps stimulate the auto industry, which in turn stimulates Northwest Indiana’s steel industry, as well as reduces our dependence on foreign oil and cuts carbon emissions,” said Visclosky. “The program provides important assistance to hardworking Americans during tough economic times, and has positive repercussions throughout the economy. The end result is economic recovery and job creation from the auto dealerships to the steel mills and everywhere in between.” Cash for Clunkers helps support a new clean energy economy by providing consumers with up to $4,500 towards the purchase of new, more fuel-efficient vehicles when they trade in their old cars or trucks that get poor gas mileage. Almost 200,000 cars have already been bought through the program, and it is expected to spur the sale of up to 800,000 more fuel-efficient cars and trucks. By boosting auto sales the program helps auto companies, suppliers such as steel companies, and auto dealers recover from the recession at the same time as it reduces our dependence on foreign oil and cuts harmful carbon emissions. The legislation provides rebates for cars and trucks in the following four categories: Passenger Cars – The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher; Light-Duty Trucks – The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher; Large Light-Duty Trucks – The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a “work truck.” New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher; and Work Trucks – The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher.
07.28.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that four police departments in Northwest Indiana will receive a combined $3,970,892 in grants authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to hire 20 new officers for a three year period. The grants will be administered by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) through the COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP). “I always do everything I can to ensure that our local law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to keep our communities safe, but in these tough times with tight budgets, I am especially pleased to see these funds coming to Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “These COPS grants will not only put more police on the streets, but also free up resources for police departments to devote to other crime-fighting efforts. They go a long way toward improving public safety and quality of life in our communities.” Specifically, Gary will receive $2,076,514 to hire 11 officers, East Chicago will receive $1,120,105 to hire five officers, Merrillville will receive $588,090 to hire three officers, and Lake Station will receive $186,183 to hire one officer. CHRP grants are intended to address the full-time sworn officer needs of law enforcement agencies in order to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. They provide full funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions, including filling existing unfunded vacancies. The grants may also be used to rehire officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts.
07.24.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives approved $3.65 million for four road and trail projects in Northwest Indiana that improve safety, encourage economic growth, and create jobs. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. “These investments in Northwest Indiana’s infrastructure will improve public safety, encourage economic growth, and raise our quality of life,” said Visclosky. “Not only will they have a lasting impact on the region, but they will also create near-term construction jobs that will help us get our economy going again. Now is the time to invest in ourselves and these projects will help fuel success in Northwest Indiana.” The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) is slated to receive $2 million for the South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Reinvestment Plan. Specifically, NICTD will use the funding to continue to design and build new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems that will increase operational flexibility and reliability, and enlarge capacity to meet increases in demand. NICTD operates more than 12,800 trains annually carrying more than 4.2 million passengers to high paying Chicago jobs. Riders return in excess of $225 million in salaries and wages to Northwest Indiana. To maintain this service, the 75-year-old signal and power distribution systems must be replaced. “NICTD could not be more grateful for the Congressman's steadfast support,” said NICTD General Manager Jerry Hanas. “The funding in the House bill represents service reliability back home and that's what really matters for our riders. Whether it’s taking the train to the office, a doctors appointment or a ball game, the bottom line for our customers is that we get them there on time. Congressman Visclosky is working to make sure that happens.” Crown Point is slated to receive $900,000 for improvements to North Street. The funding will help improve and widen North Street/109th Avenue between Interstate 65 and State Road 53. This project will be executed in anticipation of the new interchange off of I-65 and the new traffic that the interchange will generate. Work will include removal of the existing roadway, rehabilitation of the road sub-grade, replacement of pavement, and installation of appropriate storm water infrastructure in order to improve traffic interconnectivity and reduce congestion. “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his continued commitment to the advancement of transportation in Northwest Indiana,” said Crown Point Mayor David Uran. “This funding will allow for the completion of a vision shared by the Congressman and the city for immediate access to Interstate 65 for our residents and businesses. This funding will allow the city to complete its portion of necessary road construction on 109th Avenue leading to the new interchange, that otherwise would have cost the city great time and expense to complete. I am grateful for the Congressman’s understanding of the magnitude of this additional interchange on regional transportation and the necessity of completing improvements on the access road to this interchange. His work on this project will benefit this community and region for a very long time.” Porter County is slated to receive $500,000 for the Dunes-Kankakee Trail. The funding will be used by the Porter County Board of Commissioners to construct approaches and crossings for the Dunes-Kankakee Trail near the intersection of U.S Highway 20 and State Road 49. This project will be one of the first steps in constructing a valuable north-south link in the existing regional trail system, expanding the recreational opportunities for those residing on or visiting the southern shore of Lake Michigan. Further, the trail’s connection with the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will allow more visitors to access this national treasure by providing an alternative to the overcrowded parking lots at the site. “We’re happy that the Congressman got the money and hopeful that the project goes forward,” said Porter County Commissioner Bob Harper. Schererville is slated to receive $250,000 to extend Oak Street from Kennedy Avenue to U.S. Highway 41. The project would entail engineering for grade separation of a single railroad track, road widening, and identifying right-of-way in order to create a much needed through street that alleviates congestion on U.S. 41 and encourages new development in the area. “It’s always been our dream to have another connection between Kennedy and U.S. 41,” said Schererville Town Manager Bob Volkmann. “Certainly, this is a great first step for us, to get the preliminary engineering done. It’s great news for Schererville, great news for local retail development, and a step in the right direction to relieve traffic congestion on U.S. 41.” The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
07.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009, which is designed to restore fiscal responsibility while allowing for critical investments in national priorities. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 265 to 166. “Just as the hardworking people of Northwest Indiana have to balance their checkbooks and make ends meet, so too must Congress,” said Visclosky. “I believe that Congress has a responsibility to the American taxpayers to balance the federal budget and to shepherd government programs in an efficient, effective, and responsible manner. This bill reinforces that obligation by writing it into law.” The statutory PAYGO bill would require offsetting revenue increases or spending reductions when creating new non-emergency tax cuts or entitlement expansions. In other words, it forces Congress, like a family household, to operate within its budget. For example, if Congress increases funding for one program, it must either decrease the funding of a different program or increase taxes to accommodate for the first program’s increase. Likewise, if Congress cuts taxes for a specific group, it must reduce funding for an existing program or increase a different group’s taxes. If the net effect of all non-exempt legislation enacted during a session of Congress increases the deficit, there would be an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs, known as a sequester. This measure is similar to the PAYGO law that was in place in the 1990s, when the budget was last balanced, and that was a factor in enforcing the fiscal discipline that led to balanced budgets. In 2002, Congress failed to reauthorize that PAYGO law, allowing it to expire. This failure contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of $4.5 trillion. The bill includes some exemptions so that the baseline would be adjusted to exclude the costs of extending current policy on the Alternative Minimum Tax, Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate, estate tax, and the middle class tax cuts enacted in 2001 from all calculations for PAYGO. Additionally, as was the case in the original PAYGO law, there is an exemption for emergency legislation. “This PAYGO legislation helps restore the fiscal responsibility we need to balance the budget and lay the foundation for a vital economy,” said Visclosky. “It may not be perfect in every way, but it is important to impose fiscal discipline and it is the right thing to do. People in Northwest Indiana and across the country will reap the benefits of this new era of fiscal responsibility in Washington.”
07.21.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the $250,000 he secured in fiscal year 2009 federal funds for the Valparaiso University Department of Geography and Meteorology has been released by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and is now available to the university. The grant for the top-rated department will support program development and technology acquisitions and help boost the region’s prowess in science, technology, engineering, and math. “The Valparaiso meteorology program, through its science and technology-driven curricula and research, helps create an innovation environment in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “It is an important player in efforts to diversify our local economy and encourage job creation in the high-tech sector, and I am proud to support its contributions to education, applied research, and Northwest Indiana’s communities.” “Valparaiso University appreciates Congressman Visclosky's long-standing support of our academic programs and the entire Northwest Indiana community,” said Valparaiso University President Mark Heckler. “This funding for Valpo's meteorology program will enable us to strengthen our community outreach and education, in addition to providing for equipment, software and other items that support the leading edge weather technology and research taking place on campus. Valpo possesses one of the nation's premier undergraduate meteorology programs, and with Congressman Visclosky's support, we will continue to educate top-notch meteorology students for careers in the National Weather Service, Air Force and other organizations.” The Department of Geography and Meteorology is at the top of its field and Valparaiso is one of only a few universities in the nation to use dual-polarization Doppler radar and radiosonde balloon technology. In fiscal year 2008, Visclosky secured $817,000 for the department’s radar system. The technology is used in student and faculty research and also helps keep Northwest Indiana prepared for significant weather events such as lake effect snow, tornadoes, and severe rain storms. This installment of funding will allow the meteorology program to increase community engagement, outreach, and education in Northwest Indiana as well as add and upgrade instruments to complement the previously-acquired technology. Taken together, the two grants will provide the program with the technological infrastructure needed to produce top-notch graduates for placement in graduate programs, the National Weather Service, and the Air Force for years to come.
07.21.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the State of Indiana will receive $52,738,953 in stimulus funds from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Weatherization Program to create jobs, weatherize homes, lower energy costs for low-income families, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Visclosky ensured the program’s inclusion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Expanding conservation is one of the most effective ways to combat the energy crisis, diminish our dependence on foreign oil, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” said Visclosky. “On top of all that, weatherization efforts create good green jobs. I look forward to seeing these funds put to good use creating jobs and fighting the energy crisis in Northwest Indiana and across the state.” Indiana will use its Recovery Act funds to weatherize more than 19,700 homes across the state over the next three years. The Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority (IHCDA) will administer the program, and provide funding to local organizations to carry out home energy audits and weatherization assistance. These agencies will include community action agencies, non-profit organizations, and local government entities. The state will also use Recovery Act funds to increase its weatherization training and technical assistance capabilities by expanding its partnerships with the Indiana Vocational/Technical College, the Indiana Community Action Association, Inc., and the Environmental Management Institute. IHCDA and its partners will ensure that the state will have a sufficient and capable workforce to carry out home energy audits and weatherization procedures. Indiana previously received 10 percent of its funding allotment for planning and training purposes, and after demonstrating successful implementation of its plan with this installment of funding, will receive almost $66 million in additional funding, for a total of nearly $132 million. Up to 20 percent of the funds may be used to hire new workers and train them. DOE’s Weatherization Assistance Program will be available to families making up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level, about $44,000 a year for a family of four. Weatherization projects allow low-income families to save money by making their homes more energy efficient, which results in average savings of 32 percent for heating bills and savings of hundreds of dollars per year on overall energy bills.
07.20.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the State of Indiana will receive $27,448,400 in stimulus funds from the State Energy Program (SEP) to create green jobs, improve energy efficiency, and expand renewable energy. “The State Energy Program addresses two critical issues: job creation and the energy crisis,” said Visclosky. “As the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, I worked hard to ensure the program’s inclusion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. These funds will help Northwest Indiana and the state create much-needed jobs as we improve our energy efficiency, deploy new renewable energy sources, and combat the energy crisis head on.” Indiana will utilize its SEP Recovery funding to implement several energy efficiency and renewable energy projects throughout the state with a focus on saving and creating jobs, quickly completing projects, positive environmental impacts, measurable energy efficiency savings, and diversifying statewide energy sources. The funding will support a competitive loan program to promote energy efficiency in the commercial, industrial, and manufacturing sectors in the state for the implementation of energy efficient technologies such as lighting, controls and sensors, insulation, and appliances. Additionally, funds may be used to support training programs and public energy outreach and education campaigns that will provide information to consumers on the importance of energy conservation as well as tips on how to reduce their energy consumption. The SEP is administered by the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. SEP distributes grants to the states so they can develop cost-shared energy efficiency and renewable energy projects that meet their unique energy needs and are consistent with national energy goals. Consistent with the goal of the Recovery Act, SEP Recovery funding is intended to support efforts that save energy, create or retain jobs, increase energy generation from renewable resources, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A DOE study anticipates that the $3.1 billion in nationwide SEP funding from the Recovery Act will save government, businesses, and consumers $22.3 billion and 3,400 trillion Btu.
07.17.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured critical resources to fight crime in Northwest Indiana. The Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) is slated to receive no less than $3 million and the Indiana National Guard’s Counter Drug Program is slated to receive $3 million. HIDTA’s funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill and the National Guard’s Funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations bill. “Drug trafficking is at the root of much of the crime in Northwest Indiana’s communities,” said Visclosky. “I know that people are concerned about the toll drug traffickers and drug dealers are taking on our communities, and this funding will help combat drugs in a comprehensive, cohesive fashion to make our communities safer, better places to live.” The Federal Government designated Lake County a HIDTA in 1996 to aid Northwest Indiana in addressing drug and gang crime. The HIDTA, which is administrated by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), has made over 3,900 arrests and seized drugs and firearms worth a combined street value of over $251 million. ONDCP will set the HIDTA’s final funding level, which must meet or exceed the $3 million it received last year. “The Lake County HIDTA would like to thank U.S. Representative Pete Visclosky for his continued support into the year 2010,” said Lake County HIDTA Director Chuck Porucznik. “The HIDTA program funds will continue to enhance law enforcement efforts in Lake County to rid the community of violent gangs, drugs and illegal guns. The mission of the Lake County HIDTA is to reduce drug availability and usage by creating intelligence-driven drug task forces (initiatives) aimed at eliminating or reducing domestic drug trafficking and its harmful effects through the enhancement and coordination of drug trafficking control efforts among federal, state and local enforcement agencies.” The funding for the Indiana National Guard’s Counter Drug Program will be used to support interdiction and drug demand reduction activities. The program works in close partnership with the HIDTA to combat illegal narcotics. In 2008, six National Guardsmen assisted in a HIDTA case that resulted in $6.4 million in seizures. The Guard also provides drug education programs to 23 community-based organizations and schools, impacting the lives of thousands of students last year. “The Indiana National Guard, specifically the Lake County based Drug Demand Reduction operation relies heavily on the funding supplied by Congressman Visclosky,” said Indiana National Guard Adjutant General R. Martin Umbarger. “To date in FY 09 the Drug Demand Reduction program called Stay On Track, has reached nearly 7,000 middle and high school students in Lake, Porter, Newton, Jasper and Benton Counties. Stay on Track teaches the students the harmful effects of drug use, decision making and goal setting skills.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill passed the House of Representatives yesterday. The Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations bill has been approved by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. It is scheduled for consideration in the full Appropriations Committee on July 21 and on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 30. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
07.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education approved $1 million for four programs in Northwest Indiana that promote productivity and workforce participation. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. “These four programs help people in Northwest Indiana maximize their potential and lead meaningful lives,” said Visclosky. “Everybody deserves an opportunity to hone their skills and prepare themselves for a productive life, and Northwest Indiana is fortunate to have these organizations that are committed to that. They help make the region a better place and I am proud to support them.” Porter-Starke Services is slated to receive $550,000 to construct a new Portage Behavioral Health Center. The new 8,000 square foot center is projected to treat 4,700 individuals with behavior needs annually and employ a staff of 24. Untreated behavioral disorders lead to lower graduation rates, increased drug abuse, increased crime, increased unemployment, and increased rate of suicide, and Porter-Starke Services helps individuals avoid those pitfalls. “This funding will help Porter-Starke Services expand our services and outreach in Portage,” said Porter-Starke Services President and CEO Rocco Schiralli. “As the fastest growing community in Porter County, Portage will benefit from enhanced service access, additional behavioral health and addictions programs, and the creation of new jobs to support the services. Porter County has struggled in recent years with increasing prevalence of substance abuse and other behavioral health issues. Porter-Starke Services envisions a new facility as a vital step to better meet the needs of the community and provide health, balance and hope now and in the future to families and businesses.” The University of Saint Francis is slated to receive $200,000 to support the addition of equipment and furnishings for the Nursing Laboratory at its Crown Point campus. The new high-fidelity equipment will allow students to practice nursing skills on low census populations like pediatrics and maternity patients, and let faculty set up high-risk, low-incidence clinical simulations that many students would not otherwise experience. Northwest Indiana has some of the highest nursing vacancy rates in the nation and the expansion of the University’s nursing program will help address that shortage. “We appreciate Congressman Visclosky's efforts in securing this funding to assist the University of Saint Francis in equipping a state-of-the-art nursing laboratory in Crown Point,” said Margaret Stoffregen-DeYoung, ASN Program Director at the University of Saint Francis Crown Point Campus. “Currently, the University of Saint Francis Crown Point Campus serves the healthcare education needs of the Northwest Indiana region and is proud to be educating the next generation of healthcare professionals in Crown Point.” Opportunity Enterprises is slated to receive $150,000 to expand its Enriching Possibilities Day Program by engaging clients in meaningful curricular and social activities. Specifically, the funds will be used to create a resource library, establish an Assistive Technology computer lab, purchase equipment to help individuals develop fine motor skills, and set up additional sensory equipment. Opportunity Enterprises creates sustainable life choices and opportunities for individuals with unique challenges and abilities, serving roughly 1,100 people in Northwest Indiana. “At Opportunity Enterprises, we believe there is more to life than just care and safety, so we have been actively pursuing funds to create an environment that engages our clients in an educational and meaningful way,” said Opportunity Enterprises Grant Specialist Liz Metts. “This funding will allow us to expand the opportunities available for our clients through an expanded adaptive technology lab and library of curricular and sensory equipment.” Parents as Teachers of Lake County is slated to receive $100,000 to expand its family literacy program, which currently serves 500 families, to include 150 additional families that are presently on the waiting list. Parents as Teachers is a not-for-profit early childhood and support program for families with children up to the age of five in Lake and Porter Counties. The program’s goals are to increase parent knowledge of early childhood development and improve parenting practices, provide early detection of developmental delays and health issues, prevent child abuse and neglect, and increase children’s school readiness and school success. The funds will also be used to develop new Parents as Teachers programs in Benton, Jasper, and Newton Counties. “Parents as Teachers is a free, voluntary early childhood parent education and support program for families and their children prenatal to age five,” said Parents as Teachers Executive Director Kimberly D. Smith. “The result is that more children are ready for school, health and developmental problems are identified and treated early, and parents learn how to be involved in their children's learning. This funding will be utilized to strengthen and enhance program services and evaluation efforts and allow opportunities for the expansion of Parents as Teachers into more communities.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill is scheduled for consideration in the full Appropriations Committee on July 17 and on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 22. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
07.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted to support the nation’s troops and veterans by funding the construction of key facilities for our military and critical veterans’ health services. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 415 - 3, makes critical investments to better serve men and women in uniform and veterans. “My commitment to the men and women who serve, or have served, in our armed forces is unwavering,” said Visclosky. “Our troops and veterans have put their lives on the line in defense of freedom, and in return we owe them not only our gratitude, but also the resources they need to defend our country and live a healthy and productive life after serving. This bill bolsters our troops and veterans by investing in key resources for the military and vital services for veterans.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act supports our troops by providing funding to construct key facilities for training and housing, addressing the unfunded backlog of barracks for the young men and women entering the service. It also includes funding for the National Guard and Reserves initiatives, to recognize the critical contributions made by personnel to emergency assistance, homeland security, and national defense. It also takes steps to support the military families with military child care centers, military family housing, and additional Vet Centers to provide community-based readjustment counseling for veterans and their families. For our veterans, the bill makes investments to strengthen quality health care for more than six million veterans, including 419,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation supports improvements in electronic health records and paperless benefits processing to make veterans health care more efficient, the hiring of roughly 1,200 claims processors to reduce the backlog of benefits claims, important maintenance at medical facilities, additional oversight and auditing of our veterans health care system, and new practices to improve access to care for veterans in rural areas. The bill also invests in mental health services and critical medical and prosthetic research to serve our wounded warriors returning from battle.
07.08.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted to create new jobs and boost the economy by supporting small business innovation in research and technology. The Small Business Research and Innovation Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 386 - 41, would spur job creation by encouraging entrepreneurs to conduct innovative research and work toward breakthrough technological advancements. “With small businesses creating a large majority of new jobs, programs that invest in novel research and development and support new business ventures can play an important role in getting Northwest Indiana’s economy back on track,” said Visclosky. “By encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship we will diversify our local economy and bring new, good-paying jobs to the region.” The Small Business Research and Innovation Act would modernize the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program, two key research and development programs administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), to meet today’s challenges. Specifically, the bill’s provisions would do the following: Expand commercialization efforts to get small businesses’ technologies and products to market; Make it easier for small businesses to find capital to fund innovative breakthroughs, which is critical in today’s tight credit market; Broaden the pool of small businesses that participate in the programs through outreach to small businesses owned by women, minorities, veterans, and rural entrepreneurs; and Streamline the programs to operate more efficiently, meet clear performance standards, and put taxpayer dollars to the best use. Since 1992, 65,000 grants have gone to small companies engaged in cutting edge research to cure diseases, strengthen our national defense, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Every year, they result in a $2.2 billion investment in small businesses, helping 1,500 new firms get off the ground. Such start-ups have job growth rates nearly four times that of bigger firms.
07.08.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Committee approved $250,000 for Valparaiso’s Entech Innovation Center. The funding, which will go toward cutting-edge labs that foster high tech businesses, is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. “By building the infrastructure that fosters innovation and attracts high tech workers to Northwest Indiana we are taking a major step toward diversifying our economy,” said Visclosky. “These improvements to the Entech Innovation Center will help local entrepreneurs perform the cutting edge research and development that will create new businesses, new products, new jobs, and new opportunities for Northwest Indiana’s residents.” “I appreciate that Congressman Visclosky works hard to fund vital projects for Northwest Indiana, especially job-creation and infrastructure projects,” said Valparaiso Mayor Jon Costas. “In Valparaiso we are working to foster innovation and attract high-wage, high-tech jobs through the Entech Innovation Center. The Congressman is a vital partner in that effort and a leader in similar efforts to create jobs and build a new economy across the region.” The Entech Innovation Center, which was established in 2008, is a business incubation and acceleration program dedicated to recruiting and attracting new technology related business ventures to the region. Specifically, the funds will be used to facilitate and equip wet labs to accommodate the recruitment and commercialization of start-up companies and corporate expansions in the medical diagnostics and medical instrumentation industries. The investment will allow the Center to provide top quality facilities and business services in an expanding industry, bringing much-needed high tech jobs to Northwest Indiana. The Center has partnered with Valparaiso University, Purdue North Central, Ivy Tech Community College, and the Valparaiso Economic Development Corporation on the initiative and anticipates that it will support 78 new jobs over two years, plus additional job growth in the future. The medical diagnostics and medical instrumentation industries project double digit growth rates nationwide and produce substantially higher salaries and wages than the region currently experiences. The National Center for Medical Diagnostics and Biological Sciences has identified Indiana as one of the top three markets for the early adoption and commercialization for medical diagnostics, and Northwest Indiana as the top zone in the state thanks to its proximity to Chicago, transportation infrastructure, and abundance of third party insurers and independent hospitals. The Fiscal Year 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill is scheduled for consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 17. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
07.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that East Chicago will receive $1,779,850 in grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grants are intended to help the city expand economic opportunities and affordable housing for its residents. “These investments in East Chicago will stimulate economic activity and provide people decent, affordable housing,” said Visclosky. “The federal funds help the city address critical needs to make the city a better, more prosperous place to live. As families in East Chicago, and across Northwest Indiana, continue to struggle in the recession, initiatives like these will have a profound impact on the community.” $1,365,992 will come from the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program to develop a viable urban community by developing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income residents. Additionally, $413,858 will come from the HOME program to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low-income families that meets local needs and priorities.
06.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Indiana Dunes State Park will receive $1.4 million in federal stimulus funds from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to restore the Dunes Creek Watershed. The funding, which was authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, is intended to create jobs while restoring the local ecosystem. “This project not only creates badly needed jobs today, but by improving our natural environment, makes Northwest Indiana a nicer place to live tomorrow,” said Visclosky. “Economic stimulus projects should have an immediate impact on jobs and the economy and also have a lasting impact on our community. That’s exactly what this project does.” The Indiana Dunes State Park will utilize the funding to restore and reconnect Lake Michigan to nearly six miles of stream spawning habitat for migratory fish. The project will daylight 750 feet of culvert to reconnect 7,407 acres of the Dunes Creek Watershed to Lake Michigan. The project also improves the flood capacity and resiliency along the creek and offers additional flood protection for historic public facilities that serve beachgoers. NOAA selected shovel-ready projects that not only represented efforts with the greatest ecosystem impact, but also supported the maximum amount of jobs. The Dunes Creek Watershed restoration project was one of three that were chosen out of over 110 proposals from the Great Lakes Region.
06.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the recently-passed Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill invests $475 million in the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The funding represents a landmark investment in the interagency initiative, which will target the most significant problems in the region, including invasive aquatic species, non-point source pollution, and contaminated sediment. “The Great Lakes are our most precious natural resource,” said Visclosky. “I have always been committed to protecting and preserving the lakes, and I am proud to commit these new funds for their restoration. A healthy and vibrant Lake Michigan means a better quality of life in Northwest Indiana.” The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative will use outcome-oriented performance goals and measures to target the most significant problems and track progress in addressing them. The interagency initiative will work with state and local governments, as well as industry, to protect, maintain, and restore the chemical, biological, and physical integrity of the Great Lakes. The initiative’s long term goals include increasing recreational activity on the lakes, assuring safe drinking water, and providing a healthy ecosystem for fish and wildlife. The Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development approved $40.1 million for water infrastructure projects in Northwest Indiana. The funding, which supports projects to be executed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in partnership with local sponsors, is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. “These projects are about improving our quality of life, fostering economic activity in our communities, and ensuring the health and safety of Northwest Indiana’s residents,” said Visclosky. “By reducing our risk of flooding, improving our water supply, and enhancing our natural environment, these projects will benefit people across Northwest Indiana.” The Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project is slated to receive $20 million. Once complete, the project will include 22 miles of levees and flood walls that protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that flooding on the Little Calumet River causes $11 million in damages annually. Flooding last fall caused considerably more damage in those communities and the completion of the flood control project will protect homes and businesses to minimize the costs associated with flooding. Other project components include the installation of a control structure at Hart Ditch, building almost 17 miles of hiking trails, and preserving over 550 acres of wetlands. Visclosky secured $24 million for the project in fiscal year 2009 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided an additional $3 million for it this year. “It is imperative that we complete the Little Cal project as quickly as possible in order to reduce the threat of floods for thousands of families and businesses,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to have secured another ample installment of federal funding and will continue to do everything I can to make the needed resources available to get the levees built by the December 2010 target completion date.” “I am very excited for Northwest Indiana now that the federal funding for the Little Calumet levee project is in place,” said Hammond Mayor Thomas McDermott, Jr. “Fully funding the levee project is essential to the security of our communities. I have been a strong advocate for this funding at the local, state, and federal level so that our residents and their homes are protected and economic development around the levee area is put on the fast track. It’s a great day for Northwest Indiana.” Indiana Harbor is slated to receive $13.5 million for the construction of a confined dredged material disposal facility (CDF) on a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) site located in East Chicago. The project will dredge the federal channel to authorized navigation depths, and will also include the removal of sediment in adjacent berthing and docking areas at non-federal expense. Additionally, Indiana Harbor is slated to receive $1 million to complete the feasibility phase and begin preliminary engineering and design to improve water quality and enhance aquatic and terrestrial habitat along the Grand Calumet River. The Marquette Plan is slated to receive $4 million to be used to begin design and implementation efforts for ecosystem restoration and management of contaminants for ecological and economic purposes for sites along the Lake Michigan waterfront in Lake and Porter Counties. “The City of Whiting is eager to implement our Marquette Plan project to improve access to our Lake Michigan shoreline and public parks,” said Whiting Mayor Joe Stahura. “I greatly appreciate Congressman Visclosky’s leadership on the Marquette Plan and his work to secure federal funds for Marquette Plan projects. Improving our shoreline will be a boon to the residents of Whiting and people in communities across Northwest Indiana.” The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is slated to receive $1.6 million for the shoreline erosion project to support additional sand placement along Lake Michigan. The movement of sand along the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore has been interrupted by nearby Michigan City harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill is scheduled for consideration in the full Appropriations Committee on July 7 and on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 16. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky issued the following statement today after voting no on the American Clean Energy and Security Act, legislation that would establish a cap and trade regime to reduce carbon emissions in the U.S.: “Climate change is real. It is a serious problem that threatens our way of life, and I am committed to working to solve it. “Although significant progress has been made on this bill on a number of fronts that would hold down the cost of electricity to residential and industrial customers and help level the playing field for our steel and manufacturing industries that face international competition, the bill still falls short. “The legislation considered today leaves no margin of error as it relates to jobs in the domestic steel industry, stoking my greatest fear that it will result in a net loss of jobs in Northwest Indiana. I remain seriously concerned about the long-term ramifications that this unilateral action to combat climate change will have on American competitiveness and American workers. We can’t just hope that other countries will follow suit and choose to act concurrently. Additionally, from my perspective this legislation assumes no growth in American industry, including steel. “I see the need for climate change legislation, but we still have more work to do before this package is ready. The nature of the problem demands a balanced approach that ensures competitiveness and protects American jobs.”
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives late last night in defense of his $1 million earmark for the restoration of Good Fellow Lodge at the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. The House defeated an amendment today to strike the funding from the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill by a vote of 123 - 305. The House subsequently passed the bill, which also contains $800,000 for waste water infrastructure in Portage, by a vote of 254 - 173. The following are Visclosky’s remarks, as delivered on the House floor: “Madam Chair, the gentleman talked about the preservation of the Good Fellow Lodge that, as he rightfully indicated, became possessed by the National Park Service in 1977, 32 years ago. He also indicated, correctly, the deferred maintenance budget under the General Accountability Office. “But I would point out that the $1 million designated in this bill—and I appreciate the consideration of the Chair and the ranking member for including it—goes much beyond the issue of preservation. The fact is that it has a lot to do with education. “The installation of the water line and the subsequent restoration of the lodge would allow the Dunes Learning Center at which this lodge is located to expand their current educational program. The learning center provides valuable hands-on experience and inspires environment and environmental stewardship among the citizens of Northwest Indiana. “Since its inception in 1998, over 48,000 students have participated in the program, including a record 5,878 last year. For these thousands of learners, the Environmental Education Center, which the Good Fellow Lodge is intended to be part of, is increasing each visitor's enjoyment and understanding of the parks and to allow visitors to care about the parks on their own terms. “This is not just about preservation. It is also about reducing future costs for the National Park Service. The fact is that the project would reduce National Park Service maintenance and operation costs. Internal filtering and chlorination systems for the wells that are currently on site must be maintained at each site with daily and weekly sampling and expensive laboratory testing to satisfy State health standards. “Currently, the park operates and maintains all pumps and water lines. And this project would allow the park staff to focus on other high-priority assets in the park. “And I would also point out that it has something to do with the issue of safety. A municipal water supply line will increase supply in water pressure that will improve fire suppression for the student cabins that are at site and ensure quality of potable water consumed by the children. “So I do think this is very deserving and goes beyond the issue of preservation.”
06.25.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development approved $6 million for advanced energy research projects in Northwest Indiana. The funding, which supports cutting edge projects that attract new economy workers, is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. “As the nation works to solve the energy crisis, we in Northwest Indiana can play an important role in the solution and create local economic opportunities at the same time,” said Visclosky. “This funding for advanced energy research will further the development of new energy solutions and attract high tech jobs to the region.” Purdue University Calumet is slated to receive $5.5 million for three programs. First, $3 million will go to the Center for Innovation through Visualization and Simulation (CIVS) to support further expansion of computational tools and equipment. The CIVS provides an innovative way to learn and understand extremely complex information through visualizing, manipulating, and interacting with computer-generated simulations and models, as well as allows users to interact with three dimensional computerized environments. Rapid advancements in computation speeds, sophisticated graphics, and numerical methods enable the widespread use of simulation, including the design and optimization of industrial systems. For example, Purdue Calumet’s visualization laboratory made it possible for researchers to simulate wear inside steelmaking blast furnaces, see how erosion in the furnaces is distributed, and evaluate ways to decrease damage. Second, Purdue University Calumet is slated to receive $2 million for the Energy Efficiency & Water Institute Research Facility. The funding will support the expansion and equipping of laboratory and research space for two academic research programs, the Energy, Efficiency and Reliability Center and the Water Institute Research Facility. The project will modify 4,400 square feet of research and lab space and equip the facility with fume hoods, computer analysis stations, microscopes, and other equipment that allow students and faculty to conduct cutting edge research. Third, Purdue University Calumet, along with Purdue West Lafayette, is slated to receive $500,000 for the Comprehensive Wind Energy Program. The funding will support efforts to expand a research and development program for engineers focusing on wind technologies. The first aspect of the project will be the construction of a wind turbine and improvements to the existing wind tunnel research infrastructure. The second aspect will support research activities focused on turbine design and development, aerodynamic modeling and simulation, and additional scope essential to the successful deployment of cost-effective wind technologies. “These additional resources will fund important technology improvements, which in turn will help Purdue Calumet support local manufacturing industries efforts to take advantage of less costly, more efficient ways to make improvements in their operations,” said Purdue Calumet Chancellor Howard Cohen. “Our Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization also will be able to establish a master’s degree program as a result of this funding.” Valparaiso University is slated to receive $500,000 for the Solar Furnace Research Program. The funding will support an interdisciplinary program for undergraduate and faculty research on solar energy. The program will utilize a solar furnace, a device that concentrates sunlight to produce heat, for research into ways to harness sunlight to produce materials that can be used as sources of energy. “Congressman Visclosky's visionary support of the Valparaiso University Solar Energy Program will have a positive, transformative impact for Northwest Indiana,” said Valparaiso University President Mark Heckler. “This state-of-the-art, research program and facility will allow new and interesting interactions among Valparaiso University, Northwest Indiana communities, and national research laboratories.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill is scheduled for consideration in the full Appropriations Committee on July 7 and on the floor of the House of Representatives on July 16. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has endorsed the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009, becoming an original cosponsor of the legislation that has the backing of 156 Members of Congress. The bill is designed to restore fiscal responsibility while allowing for critical investments in national priorities. “I believe that Congress has a moral obligation to budget taxpayer dollars in an efficient, effective, and responsible manner,” said Visclosky. “Balancing the federal budget and keeping it balanced should continue to be one of this country’s top priorities.” The statutory PAYGO bill would require offsetting revenue increases or spending reductions when creating new non-emergency tax cuts or entitlement expansions. In other words, it forces Congress, like a family household, to operate within its budget. For example, if the House increases funding for one program, it must either decrease the funding of a different program or increase taxes to accommodate for the first program’s increase. Likewise, if the House cuts taxes for a specific group, it must reduce funding for an existing program or increase a different group’s taxes. If the net effect of all legislation enacted during a session of Congress increases the deficit because Congress has not succeeded in paying for all the new costs that it has enacted, there would be an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs, known as a sequester. The bill does include some exemptions so that the baseline would be adjusted to exclude the costs of extending current policy on the Alternative Minimum Tax, Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate, estate tax, and the middle class tax cuts enacted in 2001 from all calculations for PAYGO. Additionally, as was the case in the original PAYGO law, there would be an exemption for emergency legislation. “Although this bill is not perfect, it is a firm, positive step in the direction of fiscal responsibility,” said Visclosky. “Given the current economic crisis, we should not allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good.” The statutory PAYGO bill is similar to the statutory PAYGO law that was in place in the 1990s, when the budget was last balanced, and was a factor in enforcing the fiscal discipline that led to balanced budgets. In 2002, Congress failed to reauthorize the PAYGO law and allowed it to expire. This failure contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of more than $11 trillion. “This PAYGO legislation will help restore the fiscal responsibility that brought us budget surpluses and prosperity in the 1990s,” said Visclosky.
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Committee approved $1.8 million for two environmental infrastructure projects in Northwest Indiana. The funding, which will support projects to improve the quality of life for region residents, is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. “This funding for improvements to Northwest Indiana’s environmental infrastructure will improve the quality of life for all the region’s residents,” said Visclosky. “By protecting and preserving our local environment we can make the area a nicer place to live, thereby attracting new investment and creating new economic opportunities.” The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is slated to receive $1 million to restore Good Fellow Lodge. The funding will be used to install a new municipal water line to the lodge, which would be the first step in a much needed restoration effort to the historically significant structure. The lodge is deteriorating and there is a fear that it will collapse and have to be removed completely. The restoration of the lodge will allow the Indiana Dunes Learning Center to expand its educational programs. This project will help provide valuable hands-on learning experiences that inspire community and environmental stewardship among the citizens of Northwest Indiana. According to the most recent figures from the National Park Service, 2.1 million people visit the Lakeshore each year, generating $55.3 million in local revenues. “Save the Dunes Council appreciates the funding obtained by Congressman Visclosky for the restoration of Good Fellow Lodge,” said Save the Dunes Council Executive Director Tom Anderson. “The lodge is an important historic feature of Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and is integral to the future of the Indiana Dunes Environmental Learning Center. We appreciate the Congressman’s support for this funding, and his long-term support for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore.” The City of Portage is slated to receive $800,000 for water infrastructure improvements. The funding will be used to complete the second phase of improvements at the existing water reclamation facility, which includes enhancements to the solids handling infrastructure to accommodate increased biosolids production associated with increased flows. Portage Mayor Olga Velazquez stated, “Portage appreciates the continued support of the Congress and of Congressman Visclosky in helping the City improve our wastewater treatment facility. This newest funding opportunity will be utilized to improve our biosolids treatment and handling to continue to provide our residents with efficient and effective waste handling.” “These two projects have the double benefit of preserving and protecting our environment and encouraging economic activity,” said Visclosky. “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is one of our great natural treasures, attracting many people to the region each year, and investment in wastewater infrastructure provides significant environmental, public health, and economic benefits to local residents.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill is scheduled for consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives on June 25. Subsequent to House passage it must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Porter County Municipal Airport will receive a $1,202,427 grant and that the Jasper County Airport will receive a $1,804,808 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The funding will improve operational efficiency and increase safety at the airports to help fuel the local economy. “Airports are important economic engines for communities in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “By leveraging these funds to make improvements that will increase efficiency and raise safety, we will help the Porter and Jasper County airports create yet more economic activity in their respective communities.” Porter County Municipal Airport will use its funding to rehabilitate a portion of the terminal apron, which is over 25 years old. The rehabilitation will extend its useful life. Jasper County Airport will use its funding to rehabilitate Runway 18/36, the parallel taxiway, the terminal apron, and as reimbursement for phase 2 construction of Taxiway B-2. Runway 18/36 and its parallel taxiway, which were both constructed in 1965 and overlayed in 1992, will have its useful life extended with the rehabilitation. The Taxiway B-2 connector was needed so that aircraft could more efficiently exit the runway. The funding was awarded through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which is intended to support improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. To be eligible for a grant, an airport must be included in the National Plan for Integrated Airport Systems, which identifies public-use airports that are important to public transportation and contribute to the needs of civil aviation, national defense, and the postal service.
06.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus, led by Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), today held a hearing to listen to the concerns of the steel industry and discuss policy solutions that can help stabilize the steel industry. The hearing featured testimony from constituents of steelmaking regions across the country, industry experts, and industry leaders to present further efforts Congress can undertake to help stabilize the steel industry and preserve and create steelworker jobs. “We must work to stabilize the steel industry to preserve and create jobs and revitalize the economies of steel-producing regions across the U.S.,” said Visclosky. “None of us have control over the economy. But we do have control over what actions we can take to ameliorate its effect, as well as the effects of other actions and issues that impact the industry. I am proud of the Buy America provisions in the stimulus, and believe that Buy America is the foundation for our steel industry to revitalize.” “Proponents of Cap and Trade say we should trust China that they won't cheat and somehow send cheaper goods over here. But this is the same country that sends us fungus in their diapers, leaded toys, toxic baby bottles, poison dog food, harmful building materials; they dump steel on our shores, hack into our computers, and spy on us. Hardly a country I would trust,” said Murphy. The first two panels featured testimony from residents of Indiana, Pennsylvania, Alabama, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, and West Virginia who work in the steel industry. They painted a vivid picture of the impacts that the recession and downturn in the steel industry are having in their communities. The third panel featured industry experts who spoke of the decline in the American manufacturing sector and the imperative of rebuilding the manufacturing base, and the fourth panel featured steel industry leaders who presented their assessment of the current situation and measures that Congress can take to help stabilize the industry. Among the policy suggestions put forth were the strict enforcement of the Buy America provision in the Recovery Act, measures to prevent foreign governments from manipulating their currencies and subsidizing their exports to the U.S., incentives to encourage companies to keep, reopen, and build facilities in the U.S., better enforcement of trade remedy tools, especially against China, and development of green goods that create a new demand for steel. “The USW has responded with a mobilization to once again defend and support American manufacturing,” said USW District 7 Director Jim Robinson. “We fought for the ‘Buy American’ provision in the stimulus bill; we passed local and state ‘Buy American’ resolutions; we created bus tours across the Midwest and South to demonstrate the importance of the auto industry to a strong manufacturing base and a secure standard of living for American working families.” “We need to make sure that the domestic steel industry is competing on a level playing field by making sure that our foreign competitors are not dumping excess steel, that the steel is not being produced with government subsidies that put the U.S. companies at a disadvantage, and that the foreign countries are not regulating their currencies to give the companies an unfair advantage,” said Universal Stainless and Alloy Products Vice President of Administration and General Counsel Paul McGrath. Already this year, the Steel Caucus has spearheaded the effort to insert Buy American language into the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, fought for the enforcement of U.S. trade law against unfair imports from countries like China, and worked hard to ensure that climate change legislation moving its way through the House does not hurt the competitiveness of the American steel industry. “We have an obligation to American taxpayers and American workers to ensure that their tax dollars are creating American jobs, and I assure you that this Caucus will not stop working to ensure that American steel has full access to stimulus funding and the resources to fairly compete in the world economy and survive this downturn,” said Visclosky. “Proponents say we're going to get 200 tons of steel to build a windmill, and that's true, but it takes 78,000 tons of steel to build a clean coal power plant. What we ought to be doing is spending our money tearing down our old dirty coal plants, building new ones, and using our massive energy resources off our nation’s coast to help finance a new era of clean energy,” concluded Murphy. The Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs.
06.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies approved $1,925,000 for seven law enforcement agencies in Northwest Indiana to upgrade and improve their crime fighting technology. Additionally, Visclosky’s nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program will be funded at $25 million in fiscal year 2010. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. “Every day Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement officers take to the streets to keep our communities safe,” said Visclosky. “I have the utmost respect for their dedication and bravery and am proud to provide them with these critical resources that will help them do an even better job of protecting us. My objective is to do everything I can to ensure that they have the best equipment and the most modern technology as they do their jobs.” The Lake County Sheriff’s Department is slated to receive $500,000 to begin the initial steps in the consolidation of Lake County’s 18 dispatch centers. The project, which was developed by the Lake County Public Safety Commission, will require the purchase of new interoperable radios and the corresponding software system in order to increase efficiency, improve 9-1-1 response capabilities, and cut costs. “The Congressman knows that we at the Lake County Sheriff’s Department have spent the last three years trying to consolidate services, whether it’s been through the technology of data sharing, or most recently we’ve been working on a project that would consolidate our communications centers throughout Lake County,” said Lake County Chief of Police Marco Kuyachich. “What the Congressman’s done for us is a major hurdle toward that goal. The Sheriff and I can’t thank the Congressman enough for all he’s done for us.” The Merrillville Police Department is slated to receive $500,000 for technology and equipment upgrades to its communications systems. The funds will be used to purchase computer hardware, software, and video recording equipment that will greatly improve the department’s efficiency. “We’d like to thank Pete Visclosky personally for going beyond normal means in receiving this funding due to our financial need and need for public safety.” said Merrillville Police Chief Joseph Petruch. “These funds will help us keep the Town of Merrillville safe.” The Highland Police Department is slated to receive $485,000 to purchase and install emergency preemption devices on all traffic signals in the town. The technology upgrade will benefit all of the public safety agencies in Highland by reducing the response time to incidents and lowering the chance of traffic accidents at intersections between first responders and citizens. “The preemption devices will not only help the Police Department, but also the Fire Department, respond more quickly to the calls we receive,” said Highland Police Commander George Georgeff. “When people are waiting for us to arrive, minutes seem like hours and devices like this will get us there much quicker.” The Hebron Police Department is slated to receive $190,000 to upgrade its radio communication system, which needs to be improved to meet the upcoming move to narrowband frequency mandated by the Federal Communication Commission. The upgrade will also increase the reliability of the department dispatch and radio communications, resulting in more efficient service for the citizens of Hebron. “I think it’s great because now we can upgrade our dispatch system to today’s standards and beyond,” said Hebron Police Chief Steven Sibbrell. “I’d just like to thank the Congressman for supporting the Hebron Police Department.” The Gary Police Department is slated to receive $92,000 to purchase and install a Global Positioning System-based automatic vehicle location system. This combined software and hardware system will allow dispatch to assign officers to incidents in a more effective manner, enhancing critical incident response, patrol, and other day-to-day police operations. “I want to thank the Congressman for helping us fight crime,” said Gary Mayor Rudy Clay. “The people of Gary appreciate it.” The Hobart Police Department is slated to receive $90,000 to upgrade computers in police vehicles from commercial grade laptops to Think Pads designed to withstand police driving conditions and allow for more interoperable communication between the department and other law enforcement agencies. The new technology will allow for more efficient communication between law enforcement personnel and agencies, enhanced crime fighting capacity, improved security for sensitive information, and increased equipment durability. “Our officers are truly thankful for the Congressman’s commitment to them, their safety and wellbeing, and their ability to respond in emergency situations as a result of the technology that he has secured for them,” said Hobart Mayor Brian Snedecor. “This technology not only provides for added safety to the officers, but also provides them the ability to more effectively respond to situations involving the safety and wellbeing of our citizens.” The Porter Police Department is slated to receive $68,000 to establish a common “backbone” network consisting of dispatch 800Mhz equipment and radios that officers can use to communicate with the dispatch center and each other while allowing interoperability between other jurisdictions. The new system will be modern and reliable, and is designed to grow with the department. “This funding will help us communicate better with other agencies, especially the state police,” said Porter Police Chief James Spanier. “It will be very good for officer safety.” The bill also contains $25 million for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership, which Visclosky created in 1998 after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment. The Partnership funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Since 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 818,000 law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. In Northwest Indiana, it has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. On October 15, 2008, President Bush signed Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 into law, extending the Partnership through Fiscal Year 2012, which continues the grant program for three years. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 404-2, passed the Senate unanimously, and garnered widespread support in the law enforcement community. “Bulletproof vests save lives,” said Visclosky. “With police departments across the country feeling the pinch in this recession, I am pleased to know that the Bulletproof Vest Partnership will continue to support the procurement of equipment that keeps police officers safe in the line of duty.” “In these tough times with tight budgets, it’s important to be able to get access to bulletproof vests,” said Fraternal Order of Police Indiana State President and National Sergeant at Arms Tim Downs. “Congressman Visclosky’s program makes it much easier to obtain vests. Law enforcement officers across the country appreciate the importance of the program. It saves lives.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill must be approved by the Appropriations Committee and both the House and Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
05.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky entered the following statement into the Congressional Record in observance of Memorial Day: “Madam Speaker, this Memorial Day Weekend, we remember the brave men and women who have given their lives in battle, and we also honor the veterans who served in prior engagements and the troops currently in uniform. Throughout our history, brave Americans have fought for freedom and democracy around the world, and today we remember them for their noble service. We honor our troops and veterans through our deeds and our words, reaffirming our commitment to support our troops and providing our veterans with the benefits they deserve. “Over the last few years, Congress has made historic gains for America’s troops, veterans, and military families. Among these accomplishments include a New GI Bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, the largest increase in history for veterans’ healthcare and other services, and significant strides in rebuilding the American military and strengthening other benefits for our troops and military families. This Memorial Day I pledge to continue this critical work to put America’s troops and veterans first. “I know that more remains to be done. I will never stop fighting to ensure we do right by the men and women who serve our nation and defend our freedom. This Memorial Day, please join me in paying tribute to the brave men and women from Northwest Indiana, and all of America, who gave their lives in defense of freedom and democracy.”
05.14.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky spoke in the House of Representatives yesterday in support of the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, which passed today by a vote of 275-155. The bill is designed to improve education, create jobs, and encourage energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources in schools by making critical investments to modernize, upgrade, and repair school facilities across the country, creating healthier, safer, and more energy-efficient learning environments. It includes a Buy America provision to help preserve steelworker jobs by requiring the use of American steel in such school projects. In 2008, Visclosky successfully amended an earlier version of the bill to include a Buy America provision and that provision was included in the 2009 bill. Yesterday’s announcement that ArcelorMittal will layoff 978 workers at its Indiana Harbor facility in East Chicago, Indiana underscores the need for job-preserving policies such as Buy America. Below are Visclosky’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Chairman: I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2187, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, and commend Representative Chandler and Chairman Miller and Ranking Member McKeon for their great work on this measure and in ensuring that our students have the most healthy and environmentally-friendly schools. “Particularly, I am most pleased that language is included in this measure that requires the use of American made iron, steel, and manufactured goods. Last year when this program was first debated on the floor of the House, Representative Stupak and I successfully amended the measure to include the Buy America language, and I thank Representative Chandler and Chairman Miller for including that language in this measure. “In April of 2008, the Congressional Steel Caucus held a hearing on sub-standard steel from China. We discussed concerns about how we monitor the safety of steel imports, and how some Chinese steel companies do not adhere to international standards and guidelines when they manufacture steel. This steel may be used in our bridges, hospitals, and schools. “In addition to ensuring American-quality steel is used and that our students have a healthy, safe learning environment, this provision also provides another critical stimulus to turning around the steel industry. “The situation currently does not get any more real for our steelworkers. Last week, steel production across the country was at 42.9 percent, compared to 91.1 percent a year ago. Also within this past year, US Steel has laid off about 9,000 American workers, and ArcelorMittal has laid off about 3,000 American workers. “We must do everything possible to ensure that American taxpayer dollars are going to build American schools with American steel. If the school construction projects provided under this Act are to be truly safe for our children—that pipes won’t burst, that roofs won’t collapse—then we must ensure that the steel used is American. If the construction projects under this Act are to be truly beneficial for the American economy—to create American jobs—then we must ensure that the steel used is American. “The Buy America provision in the measure does just those things. I am pleased to support this measure and encourage my colleagues to do the same. “Thank you Mr. Chairman and I yield back my time.”
04.28.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project will receive $3 million in federal stimulus funds authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The funding will support the completion of three pump stations in Hammond and Munster and keep the whole project moving toward completion. “In choosing to support the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project, the Administration has wisely decided to create jobs in the near-term on a project with long-term economic benefits,” said Visclosky. “Northwest Indiana has been devastated by floods too many times and we cannot finish the levee system soon enough. The federal funding is on the table and our local leaders are working diligently to finish the project.” The stimulus funding is in addition to the $24 million Visclosky secured for the project in Fiscal Year 2009 and the $14.76 million he secured in Fiscal Year 2008. The stimulus funds will be utilized to continue and complete the construction of the Indianapolis Boulevard Pump Station in Hammond, the Southside Pump Station in Hammond, and the Jackson Avenue Pump Station in Munster. Once complete, the whole project will include 22 miles of levees and flood walls that reduce the risk of floods for more than 9,500 homes and businesses in Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that flooding along the Little Calumet River causes nearly $11 million in average annual flood damages. The completion of the flood control project will increase the protection of homes and businesses as well as minimize the costs associated with flooding. The stimulus funds do not alleviate the need for non-federal matching funds to be made available in order to complete the project.
04.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus, led by Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), today sent a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman, and Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment Chairman Ed Markey urging them to address international competitiveness issues for American steelworkers in their draft climate change legislation. Imposing carbon caps and taxes on the U.S. steel industry would limit steelworkers’ ability to compete fairly and result in job loss. Seventeen bipartisan members of the Caucus joined Visclosky and Murphy in sending the letter. “Climate change is real, it is man made, and we have to do something about it, but the solution must be fair and equitable for American steelworkers and other manufacturers so that they don’t lose jobs to China, India, and Brazil, where there are no emissions penalties,” said Visclosky. “Our steelworkers are the most efficient in the world, but they have enough challenges competing against illegally subsidized imports as it is. We cannot afford to hamstring them even more with unfair carbon caps and taxes that would imperil their jobs.” “The American steel industry is the most efficient and productive in the world. Any climate change legislation must recognize this fact and not punish American workers and families by exporting our manufacturing jobs to China,” Murphy said. “Congress must pass energy legislation that will clean the environment, create jobs, and make America energy independent. The U.S. leads the world in emission standards and we need to encourage other countries to join us. Congress should not set the standard so high that our companies would be put at a competitive disadvantage in the global marketplace and be forced to move their businesses overseas.” The letter warns that additional costs incurred by steel producers under proposed climate change legislation would limit their global competitiveness and undercut the health and viability of American manufacturing. The result would be an influx of cheaper steel imported from countries without climate change laws, the decline of the steel industry, and the loss of thousands of steelworker jobs. Therefore, modifications to the draft legislation are needed to address threats to U.S. steelworkers’ international competitiveness. Specifically, the Steel Caucus wants the legislation to include the following fair and equitable provisions: Adequate allowances for carbon intensive industries such as steel; Powerful tools to ensure imports are subject to the same carbon costs as are placed on domestic goods; Exemptions to make up for the fact that industrial processes such as steelmaking cannot occur without certain amounts of carbon emissions; and Credits or offsets to account for the value of other emissions-reducing efforts, such as recycling scrap steel and reducing energy consumption at steel mills and other plants. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs. The following is the full text of the Caucus’ letter to Pelosi, Waxman, and Markey: Dear Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Waxman, and Chairman Markey: As members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we recognize addressing climate change to be a challenging legislative task of immense complexity and often competing interests. Our objective in writing is to emphasize the vital importance of addressing the international competitiveness issue confronting American producers and workers if they are forced to incur new costs and burdens not placed on their foreign competitors. The current economic recession is exerting disproportionate harmful impact on the manufacturing sector in general, and on steel-producing regions of the country in particular. We must be cautious about further burdening these important segments of American society. Dealing with the competitiveness issue is essential to both the environmental goals of climate legislation, and to ensuring the health and viability of American manufacturing, and is of great importance to the members of the Steel Caucus. We are proud of the domestic steel industry’s ability to reduce total energy consumption by more than 33 percent since 1990 and believe the direction of this trend will continue because it makes good business sense. However, placing additional costs on American producers and workers without ensuring commensurate treatment of their international competitors will result in disastrous consequences to the American economy. American production will simply be displaced by production in foreign countries without similar environmental requirements, and often with far greater per-unit emissions of greenhouse gases. In other words, U.S. industries and jobs will be lost and global greenhouse gas emissions will rise. While legislative proposals to fight climate change, including the discussion draft issued by Chairmen Waxman and Markey, include provisions that acknowledge the issues of competitive disadvantage and carbon leakage, further refinement is necessary to address our underlying concerns. In order to craft comprehensive competitiveness provisions that satisfy the needs of domestic producers and protect American jobs, several elements are necessary beyond the foundational work that must first be done to build sufficient low-carbon electricity infrastructure for the nation, greatly expand low carbon technology research and development, and foster energy conservation throughout the economy. First, under a cap-and-trade system, there must be sufficient allocation of allowances or rebates to energy-intensive and trade-sensitive industries, such as steel, which will face a competitive disadvantage due to the imposition of new carbon costs. They must also be structured to provide an incentive to maintain or increase domestic production and should only compensate for costs associated with production in the United States. Allocations or rebates to manufacturers will also do much to address the concerns of finished goods producers and exporters by limiting the cost of energy-intensive inputs. Second, any climate legislation should include from the outset an effective mechanism to ensure that imports are subject to additional costs and burdens that are placed on domestic production beyond those mitigated by allocations or rebates. Given the uncertainty of whether an allowance program will be sufficient to cover all incremental costs from a new climate regime, it is essential that any climate policy include an import mechanism. Such a mechanism can and should be fully compatible with an allowance program as described above, and can be structured to verify that imports only face burdens also imposed upon domestic production. Third, in addition to a combination of allocations or rebates and border measures, climate change legislation should address the fact that there are some emissions which are the unavoidable result of the chemical processes necessary to produce certain products such as steel. No technology available today – or in the foreseeable future – can eliminate the release of carbon dioxide in the essential process of transforming iron ore into steel. Including such emissions under a national cap aimed at reducing emissions could only be accomplished by shutting down domestic production. Fourth, the caucus wishes to encourage recycling. The entire domestic steel industry is using more scrap metal and other recyclable materials as raw material feedstock. Such use can significantly reduce energy consumption and even avoid greenhouse gas emissions. Recycling offset credits or allowances should be part of comprehensive greenhouse gas legislation. Effective measures to ensure a level playing field for our workers and companies are not simply advisable, but imperative – whether they are done in the current economic environment or even during more stable conditions. Addressing these critical issues that domestic manufacturers will face under a climate change program is essential if we are to reduce our carbon emissions, as well as provide an incentive for others to join that commitment. Access to our market is the greatest leverage the United States has in dealing with the rest of the world. If countries like China, India, Russia and others are given a competitive advantage in this market due to insufficient competitiveness measures; it will be very difficult to gain their cooperation in solving this global challenge. Again, we look forward to working with you in a constructive way as legislative proposals move forward. Solving environmental problems and maintaining a competitive American manufacturing base are not mutually exclusive. The next generation of green products can and will be built here in America and many will be built with steel, but only if Congress takes steps to guarantee that that production is not unnecessarily squandered and that industries like steel have an important role to play in the global, green economy.
04.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted in support of the COPS Improvements Act, legislation to reinvigorate the highly successful Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) programs that help put more officers on the streets and provide law enforcement with critical resources. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 342-78. “I am happy to help our local police departments and sheriffs put more, better-equipped officers on the streets, especially since times are tough and budgets are tight,” said Visclosky. “Studies show that COPS programs help reduce crime and keep communities safe. Today I voted to reinforce those accomplishments and keep Northwest Indiana’s cities and towns safe from crime.” The COPS Improvements Act invests $1.25 billion per year in COPS hiring grants to put an estimated 50,000 new officers on the streets nationwide over the next five years. It also authorizes $350 million a year for COPS technology grants to equip law enforcement with cutting-edge crime fighting tools, and $200 million a year for hiring community prosecutors. Additionally, the bill establishes new troops-to-cops grants to help military veterans pursue careers in law enforcement and provides grants to reduce and prevent the manufacture, distribution, and use of illegal drugs. Since it was created in 1994, COPS has sent nearly $23 million in grants to Northwest Indiana that have helped 29 police departments and law enforcement agencies put 267 new officers on the streets. Those COPS grants included $6.7 million to procure crime-fighting technologies that help officers more efficiently patrol communities, and also helped add 30 school resources officers to improve safety in local schools. The COPS Improvements Act is endorsed by the following organizations: Fraternal Order of Police, National Sheriffs’ Association, International Association of Chiefs of Police, National Association of Police Organizations, National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition, National District Attorneys Association, U.S. Conference of Mayors, and National League of Cities.
04.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will receive $501,000 in funding from the National Park Service (NPS). The funding will support five projects intended to preserve and protect the dunes ecosystem and improve energy use and sustainability within the park. “Northwest Indiana’s unique dunes ecosystem is a national treasure and a tremendous asset for the region,” said Visclosky. “These improvements to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will help preserve and protect the park so that future generations can enjoy its natural beauty, further our objective of improved energy use, and help the park continue its contributions to the local economy.” “This is very good news for the National Lakeshore,” said Tom Anderson, Executive Director of Save the Dunes Council. “We know that there are significant restoration needs and this funding will help.” The funding will be used to control invasive plants to protect natural resources, install exterior solar lighting for park facilities, remove invasive plants near trails and the overlook at Inland Marsh, remove invasive plants to preserve communities around Ly-co-ki-we Trail, and replace roofs on two buildings using sustainable practices. All projects are NPS priorities and meet the Recovery Act's rigorous criteria of addressing highest mission needs, generating the largest number of jobs in the shortest period of time, and creating lasting value for the American people. According to the most recent figures from the NPS, 2.1 million people visit the Lakeshore each year, generating $55.3 million in local revenues.
04.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Gary Chicago International Airport (GCA) will receive $1,030,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that was authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “I have long recognized the Gary Airport’s potential to create economic opportunities in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “I am glad that the Department of Transportation and the FAA share that view and have decided to include the airport in our economic recovery efforts. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was designed to invest in the infrastructure we need for a new era of economic growth and this grant will help accomplish that goal in Northwest Indiana.” The FAA allocated America Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds on a discretionary basis, assessing projects based on a system that addressed airport safety and security, infrastructure, runway safety, increased capacity, and mitigation of environmental impacts. GCA’s funds are intended for runway rehabilitation. Visclosky has long been an advocate for GCA, working with local officials to best utilize the facility. He helped the airport secure its 2006 Letter of Intent, which provides $57.8 million over 10 years, available in installments of up to $6 million per year, for improvements and expansion that will help GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. The planned expansion would increase the size of the airport by roughly 50 percent and extend the main runway to a length of 9,000 feet. Additionally, Visclosky directed $14.6 million to the airport for apron expansion, runway overlay, safety modernization, and various other improvements, and $24.9 million for the Indiana National Guard Readiness Center at the airport.
04.01.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky will host his 2009 Military Academy Night on Wednesday, April 8 at 6:00 p.m. Military Academy Night is an annual open house Visclosky hosts so that local high school freshmen, sophomores, and juniors can learn about educational opportunities at the U.S. service academies and gather information on the application process. “The citizens of Northwest Indiana have a proud legacy of service to our country,” said Visclosky. “I host Military Academy Night each year so that our next generation has the opportunity to continue that tradition of defending America. I am exceedingly proud of the contributions that people in Northwest Indiana have made to our military and wholeheartedly support our veterans, our troops, and our future men and women in uniform.” Military Academy Night is designed to help high school students who are interested in attending the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, and the U.S. Cost Guard Academy at New London. The event will feature remarks by Congressman Visclosky, a film about the five academies, and discussions about life at the academies, the nomination process, and what parents can expect. Members of the First Congressional District Service Academy Board, which reviews applicants, will be on hand to answer questions and offer advice to prospective students. Who: Congressman Pete ViscloskyWhat: 2009 Military Academy NightWhen: Wednesday, April 8 at 6:00 p.m.Where: NiSource Building Cafeteria801 East 86th AvenueMerrillville, Indiana
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Fowler Park Board will receive a $133,737.09 grant from the National Park Service’s Land and Water Conservation Fund to replace the Fowler Park pool. “A new and improved Fowler Park pool will be a great resource for local residents,” said Visclosky. “Not only will it provide recreation for people of all ages, but it will improve the quality of life in Fowler, which in turn improves economic opportunities.” The grant will help the Fowler Park Board replace the existing pool, which is outdated and in disrepair, by constructing a new pool in the same footprint. The new pool, which will feature a water slide, will conserve water that is presently being lost due to the deterioration of the current pool. Additionally, the grant will support improvements to the pool’s immediate surroundings, such as the worn surface surrounding the pool and the addition of an Americans with Disabilities Act compliant ramp to improve access for all people.
03.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that community health centers in Northwest Indiana will receive $937,675 in grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that were authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The grants will help the community health centers expand services so that people who have been hit hard by the economic downturn can get the healthcare they need. “With too many people unemployed and struggling to make ends meet, ensuring access to basic, quality healthcare is critical,” said Visclosky. “Community health centers offer an important service to the community, providing excellent care to people who otherwise wouldn’t have access to it. They keep our community fit and healthy so that we can rebuild and revitalize our economy.” The grants will help the community health centers extend coverage to more people in need of healthcare through strategies including, but not limited to, adding new providers, expanding hours of operations, and expanding services. Community health centers serve the under- and uninsured through efforts to overcome the many impediments people face while trying to access healthcare. By increasing access to quality care to keep people healthy, the community health centers help people stay in the workforce, engage in economic activity, and lead productive lives. The following community health centers in Northwest Indiana will receive funding: NorthShore Health Centers, which operates in Lake Station and Portage, will receive $278,395; East Chicago Community Health Center will receive $272,865; HealthLinc Community Health Center of Valparaiso will receive $215,334; and Gary Community Health Center will receive $171,081.
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive $5,305,900 in grants from the U.S. Department of Energy that were authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The grants will support projects that reduce total energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and improve energy efficiency. “Conservation is one of the easiest, most effective tools we have to reduce energy consumption and harmful emissions,” said Visclosky. “These grants will not only help Northwest Indiana play its role in solving the energy crisis, but create jobs and lay the foundation for a new green economy.” The grants will support energy audits and energy efficiency retrofits in residential and commercial buildings, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements. Other eligible activities include transportation programs that conserve energy, projects to reduce and capture methane and other greenhouse gas emissions from landfills, renewable energy installations on government buildings, energy efficient traffic signals and street lights, deployment of Combined Heat and Power and district heating and cooling systems, and more. To ensure accountability, the Department of Energy will provide guidance and require grant recipients to report on the number of jobs created or retained, energy saved, renewable energy capacity installed, greenhouse gas emissions reduced, and funds leveraged. Funding is based on a formula that accounts for population and energy use. The following communities in Northwest Indiana will receive funding: Lake County will receive $2,979,700; Gary will receive $935,200; Hammond will receive $728,100; Porter County will receive $511,800; and Portage will receive $151,100. Additionally, the Indiana State Energy Office will receive $14,052,400.
03.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that $1,881,640 in recovery grants is available to Northwest Indiana law enforcement agencies through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program. The grants, which were authorized in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, may be applied toward a variety of efforts that help keep neighborhoods safe. “These recovery funds help make sure that our local law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to continue their operations and keep our communities safe,” said Visclosky. “Times are tough and budgets are tight, but we must ensure the safety and security of our neighborhoods as we work to rebuild our economy.” JAG funds can be used for a variety of efforts, such as hiring law enforcement officers, supporting drug and gang task forces, funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs, and supporting courts, corrections, treatment, and justice information sharing initiatives. The support for personnel, equipment, and crime prevention programs helps keep neighborhoods safe. The following counties and municipalities in Northwest Indiana are eligible for the JAG funds: Lake County - $24,692 Gary - $527,605 Hammond - $488,047 East Chicago - $312,683 Hobart - $109,855 Merrillville - $68,533 Cedar Lake - $36,786 Highland - $33,007 Griffith - $29,731 Munster - $21,165 Crown Point - $12,598 Lowell - $11,338 Porter County - $39,558 Portage - $75,840 Valparaiso - $66,266 Rensselaer - $23,936 Additionally, the State of Indiana has been awarded $21,673,244 in JAG Program funds that are to be administered by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute. JAG funding is allocated based on a formula of population and violent crime statistics. In order to secure the grant allocations that have been set aside for their jurisdictions, recipients must submit a completed application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs’ Bureau of Justice Assistance by May 18, 2009. Additional information about the application process can be found at https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/recoveryJAG/JAGrecoveryLocal.pdf>.
02.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $8,081,000 for cutting edge research projects in Northwest Indiana that can help make Northwest Indiana a leader in the innovation economy. $7,129,500 will go to Purdue University Calumet and $951,500 will go to NuVant Systems of Crown Point. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, February 25. “Now is the time to build a new economy in Northwest Indiana, and making the region a place that fosters cutting edge research is a great way to do it,” said Visclosky. “This support for new technology and new ideas is a down payment on Northwest Indiana’s future.” Purdue Calumet’s funding includes $4,757,500 for the Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization, $951,500 for the Inland Water Institute, $951,500 for the Hydrogen Technologies Program, and $469,000 to develop ditag genome scan technology. “Purdue Calumet is taking a leading role in advancing high tech research and innovative ideas in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “These projects will help Northwest Indiana’s existing industries transition into the 21st century and lay the foundation for new opportunities in information technology, green energy, innovative water management, and biotechnology.” “Because of this support from Congressman Visclosky, Purdue Calumet will play a significant role in developing technologies that will increase productivity and limit downtime for our local manufacturing companies, particularly in the steel companies and refineries,” said Purdue Calumet Chancellor Howard Cohen. “These funds also will help us to establish a master’s degree program for our Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization.” The Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization provides an innovative way to learn and understand extremely complex information through visualizing, manipulating, and interacting with computer-generated simulations and models, as well as allow users to interact with three dimensional computerized environments. Rapid advancements in computation speeds, sophisticated graphics, and numerical methods enable the widespread use of simulation including the design and optimization of industrial and transportation systems. For example, Purdue Calumet’s visualization laboratory made it possible for researchers to simulate wear inside steelmaking blast furnaces, see how erosion in the furnaces is distributed, and evaluate ways to decrease damage. The Inland Water Institute takes an interdisciplinary approach to complex issues dealing with water quality, water security, water infrastructure protection, and related policy issues. The Institute is developing a detection system that would utilize a sensor network, data communication, data mining, and data fusion to create a high-accuracy intrusion, damage, and toxic contamination warning system that keeps infrastructure safe. Its research can help make the region a leader in innovative water strategies and solutions. The Hydrogen Technologies Program will use its funding to continue research into utilizing hydrogen as a commercial fuel source. The funding will help complete basic research and technology demonstration that will lead to commercialization so that clean-burning hydrogen can become a viable fuel source. The program’s objective is to develop a formal design for a modular energy system for local energy production that would make Northwest Indiana a leader in hydrogen energy production. The ditag genome scan technology project’s goal is to establish a new genome-based methodology aimed at improving water and food quality. The technology will be applied toward recognizing outbreaks of infection and identifying microbial contamination in water and food. Ditag genome scan technology has the ability to differentiate between microbial strains with nearly identical DNA sequences. It will have worldwide impact as a significant tool for mitigating waterborne disease from unsanitary water conditions and food-borne illnesses from bacterial pathogens. The recent stories about salmonella in peanut butter highlight the need for such improvements in contamination detection. NuVant Systems develops and integrates catalysts and electrolytes for stationary and portable fuel cell electrode assemblies. It will use the funding to address efficiency, size, and cost concerns associated with existing direct methanol fuel cell technology. NuVant Systems will design, fabricate, and test new fuel cells with the objective of demonstrating a new technology that can be utilized in low power equipment like radios. NuVant Systems is headquartered at the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana in Crown Point and conducts its research there. It currently employs 14 people and plans to hire two more as it expands into an additional 1,000 feet of laboratory space this year, making it a great example of a new economy employer that has chosen to locate and grow in Northwest Indiana. “Not only is NuVant Systems’ research an important component to solving our energy crisis, but it also creates high-paying jobs in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “I supported the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana to attract firms like NuVant to the region and am proud to support their research now that they are here. Their work, and the work of other green, future-oriented companies, can position Northwest Indiana at the apex of the emerging green energy technology industry.”
02.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $1.25 million for water and sewer infrastructure projects in Newton and Jasper Counties. The funding will support infrastructure expansion and modernization efforts by Newton County and the City of Rensselaer that are designed to advance their local economies. It is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, February 25. “These projects will help stimulate economic activity and growth in Newton and Jasper Counties,” said Visclosky. “By improving the local water and sewer systems we will attract and support new business initiatives and improve the quality of life for local residents.” Newton County will receive $750,000 to design a waste water treatment plant and water system for the Newton County Regional Water and Sewer District. The water system and treatment plant will help facilitate the establishment of a green business park near the Newton County Landfill that utilizes methane from the landfill to power new industrial and commercial ventures. “We have a newly-formed regional water and sewer district,” said Newton County Board of Commissioners President Roxanna Hanford. “The economic boom that it could create for Newton County is exciting and we have been waiting for word of help with funding for our sewer and water project. We would like to thank the Congressman and the House for their support.” Rensselaer will receive $500,000 to extend the City’s sewage and water utilities to a retail area with failing septic systems. Supplying these establishments with access to the city sewer system will eliminate the health problems associated with outdated septic systems and attract new businesses to the area. “We feel the ability to present utilities to these people in dire need will not only enhance their survival, but also make Rensselaer a lot more attractive in the economic development area,” said Rensselaer Mayor Herb Arihood. “The City of Rensselaer really appreciates the assistance given by Congressman Visclosky and his office regarding the understanding of the problem we have in our area and how to approach the solution.”
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Gary, Hammond, and East Chicago will receive a combined $12,372,877 in grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that were authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The grants include $9,372,877 from the HUD Capital Fund for the cities’ public housing agencies and $3 million for Gary to reduce lead-based paint hazards. “The housing crisis is part of the reason why we got into this economic mess, and grants like these to address housing concerns will help get us out if it,” said Visclosky. “Everybody should have a safe and adequate home, and these economic stimulus grants will help low-income people in Northwest Indiana secure a decent place to live. That way they can better join in the efforts to revitalize our economy.” The Capital Fund grants are for development, financing, modernization, and management improvements for the cities’ public housing agencies. They may not be used for luxury improvements, direct social services, costs funded by other HUD programs, operations, or rental assistance. Gary will receive $5,874,358, Hammond will receive $1,613,194, and East Chicago will receive $1,885,325. Gary’s $3 million for lead-based paint hazard reduction will come from HUD’s Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control grant program. The grant will support comprehensive programs to identify and control lead-based paint in eligible privately owned rental and owner-occupied housing.
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $23,418,500 to fuel Northwest Indiana’s economy. The funding is for a broad range of economic development, transportation, water, energy, environment, and healthcare projects intended to stimulate economic growth. It is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday. “The time is now to take positive action to revitalize Northwest Indiana’s economy,” said Visclosky. “These many projects all engender economic growth and will help Northwest Indiana recover from the recession. They will put people to work now and lay the foundation for a new era of success.”$6.9 million for Transportation Infrastructure and Economic Development Projects Visclosky secured funding for an array of transportation infrastructure projects, highlighted by $5 million for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District’s (NICTD) South Shore Line capital reinvestment plan. The funding will help NICTD continue to design and build new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems. The improvements will help NICTD increase operational flexibility and reliability, and enlarge capacity to meet increases in demand. Last year Visclosky secured $4.9 million for NICTD’s capital reinvestment plan. “The South Shore Line provides an important link from Northwest Indiana to the high-paying jobs and vibrant economic activity in downtown Chicago,” said Visclosky. “Improving NICTD’s infrastructure enables it to expand its role in connecting people to employment opportunities and generating economic activity for the region.” “Congressman Visclosky's continued support helps to keep our trains running on time,” said NICTD General Manager Jerry Hanas. “This funding could not have come at a more critical time for our project. We are excited to move ahead on the portion between Michigan City and Gary.” The measure also includes funding for $237,500 for the Gary/Chicago International Airport alternatives analysis to consider options for connecting the South Shore Line with the proposed new terminal at the airport. “I want to thank and congratulate the Congressman for his continued support and vision to know that the airport is the engine that will make Northwest Indiana turn,” said Gary Mayor Rudy Clay. In addition to support for the South Shore Line, the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act includes funding for roads, trails, and sidewalks. Hobart will receive $475,000 for improvements to 61st Avenue that are designed to support a medical and professional office development and stimulate development of underutilized properties on both sides of the street. Portage will receive $475,000 for improvements to Central Avenue that will reduce congestion on the critical East-West connector road and provide system linkage for pedestrians and cyclists. Whiting will receive $475,000 for bike and pedestrian trails to create a trail network that enhances access to the Lake Michigan shoreline and other recreation areas within the community. The South Haven area in Porter County will receive $237,500 for an economic development initiative to construct sidewalks near schools, parks, and other youth-oriented facilities in order to improve safety and quality of life. “An efficient transportation system supports economic activity and growth,” said Visclosky. “Whether it stimulates real estate investment, helps move goods across town, or makes an area a nicer, safer place to live, good roads, sidewalks, and trails produce real economic results.” “This funding is another example of Congressman Visclosky reaching out and meeting the needs of the communities he serves,” said Hobart Mayor Brian Snedecor. “It’s infrastructure projects like this that are vital to the growth and stability of communities such as Hobart.” “The citizens of Portage and I are very appreciative of the Congressman’s support in helping us to acquire federal funding for Central Avenue road improvements,” said Portage Mayor Olga Velazquez. “It is greatly needed.” “This funding is good news for the people of Whiting,” said Whiting Mayor Joe Stahura. “It will allow us to improve public access to our Lake Michigan shoreline and public parks and make Whiting an even better place to live. Congressman Visclosky's support of our efforts is much appreciated.” “The Congressman has always supported our sidewalks project in South Haven,” said Porter County Board of Commissioners President Bob Harper. “The funds are badly needed and we appreciate the support.”Over $13.5 million for Water Infrastructure Projects The Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act also includes funding for $13,586,000 in water infrastructure projects across Northwest Indiana that Visclosky secured. In addition to the $24 million for the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project that Visclosky announced earlier this week, the Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor will receive $1,450,000, Indiana Harbor will receive $11,371,000, and the Grand Calumet River will receive $765,000. “These projects will enhance public health and safety, improve our environment, and encourage economic expansion in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “Good water infrastructure facilitates growth by improving the quality of life in an area and attracting investment and economic activity.” The funding for the Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor will be used to dredge the approach channel, inner harbor, and river. At present, natural sediment is clogging the waterway and impeding the flow of boat traffic. The dredged channel will allow recreational boaters to smoothly and safely navigate the waterway and draw more people to the recently opened Portage Lakefront Park, a Marquette Plan project. Improving the navigability of the channel will help spur economic development at and around the harbor. Last year Visclosky secured $60,000 for the project. “Certainly, improving recreation and quality of life issues are important to Portage residents, as well as opportunities for economic development,” said Mayor Velazquez. “This funding will help to achieve all of these goals. We appreciate all that Congressman Visclosky does to advocate for Northwest Indiana residents.” The funding for Indiana Harbor will be used for environmental cleanup efforts, with $8,390,000 going toward the Confined Disposal Facility and $2,981,000 going toward operations and management. The funding for the facility will help continue the ambient air monitoring and the operation of the groundwater treatment plant, complete construction of the groundwater gradient control system, and construction of the permanent waste water treatment plant. Last year Visclosky secured $18,480,000 million for the project. The funding for the Grand Calumet River will go to study environmental dredging options. The funding will be used to complete the feasibility study for the project, which is intended to improve water quality and enhance the aquatic and terrestrial habitats along the river. Last year Visclosky secured $895,000 for the project.Over $2.9 million to Fuel Northwest Indiana’s Economy Additionally, the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act contains $2,932,500 that Visclosky secured for other pro-growth projects. $1.6 million will go toward combating shoreline erosion in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore (IDNL), Munster will receive $951,500 to convert waste to energy, and Northwest Indiana’s community health centers will receive $381,000 for the procurement of medical equipment. “Economic recovery is not just about building things, but also about facilitating an environment that attracts economic activity, embraces new ideas, and allows people to optimize their efficiency,” said Visclosky. “These investments in the Lakeshore, in new energy technology, and in our health and wellbeing are important components to building a new economy in Northwest Indiana with a healthy, productive workforce.” The funding for the IDNL will be used to prevent shoreline erosion and maintain the beaches and dunes within the park, including Mount Baldy. Harbor structures outside of the IDNL interrupt the natural movement of sand within the park and accelerate the erosion of the beaches and dunes. The funding will be used to combat the accelerated erosion by strategically placing additional sand on the beaches and dunes. Maintaining the dunes not only preserves the unique ecosystem, but also maintains a major economic engine for the region. According the National Park Service’s most recent figures, 2.1 million people visit the IDNL each year, generating $55.3 million in local revenues. Last year Visclosky secured $984,000 to prevent shoreline erosion in the IDNL. “Save the Dunes Council is certainly very happy that the Congressman has obtained funding for one of the most important places in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore,” said Executive Director Tom Anderson. “Mount Baldy is a vital landmark for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and this project will help protect that property for current and future generations.” The funding for Munster will be used to construct and equip a methane gas cogeneration plant at Centennial Park. The cogeneration plant will convert methane gas from waste and refuse at the capped landfill into electricity for both the park and the local power grid, providing an environmentally-friendly source of local energy. By tapping a renewable resource for energy generation, Munster is positioning itself at the leading edge of an emerging industry. Last year Visclosky secured $1,970,000 for the Munster cogeneration project. “The Town of Munster is very grateful for Congressman Visclosky’s leadership role in helping to obtain this funding for our methane cogeneration project,” said Munster Town Councilman Helen Brown. “It’s this kind of project that will help us to more efficiently use energy in the future and we appreciate his recognition of that fact, and of the Town of Munster.” The funding for Northwest Indiana’s community health centers will go toward the purchase of important medical equipment. By purchasing the equipment jointly, the community health centers are able to defray costs and more effectively meet the healthcare needs of Northwest Indiana. Community health centers serve the under- and uninsured through efforts to overcome the many impediments people face while trying to access healthcare. By increasing access to quality care to keep people healthy, the community health centers help people stay in the workforce, engage in economic activity, and lead productive lives. “This again demonstrates Congressman Visclosky’s dedication to the healthcare of the uninsured and underinsured in Northwest Indiana,” said NorthShore Health Centers CEO Jan Wilson. “I’m just really proud that he’s our Congressman. He is the champion of healthcare in Northwest Indiana.”
02.25.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Lake County, Gary, Hammond, and East Chicago will receive a combined $5,882,482 in grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that were authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that Congress passed on February 13 and President Obama signed into law on February 17. The funding includes $3,556,735 in Homeless Prevention Grants and $2,325,747 in Community Development Block Grants. “These funds are designed to help Northwest Indiana recover economically,” said Visclosky. “This funding will help people hit hard by the recession stay in their homes while they work to improve their circumstances and provide our communities with the resources they need to create economic opportunities.” The Homeless Prevention Grants provide financial and other assistance to prevent individuals and families from becoming homeless and help those who are experiencing homelessness to be quickly re-housed and stabilized. The funds are intended to target individuals and families who would be homeless without the assistance. Types of assistance include short-term or medium-term rental assistance as well as housing relocation and stabilization services such as mediation, security or utility deposits, utility payments, moving cost assistance, and case management. Lake County will receive $550,643, Gary will receive $1,498,882, Hammond will receive $948,137, and East Chicago will receive $559,073. In addition these grant recipients, the State of Indiana will receive $16,293,551 for Homeless Prevention Grants. The Community Development Block Grants enable local governments to undertake a wide range of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide decent affordable housing, and create economic opportunities, primarily for persons of low and moderate income. For these stimulus grants, priority will be given to projects that can award contracts on bids within 120 days. Lake County will receive $360,114, Gary will receive $980,167, Hammond will receive $619,891, and East Chicago will receive $365,575. In addition to these grant recipients, the State of Indiana will receive $8,374,101 for Community Development Block Grants. “I am glad these economic stimulus funds are being made available to Northwest Indiana quickly so that our communities can help people in need and set about rebuilding our economy,” said Visclosky.
02.25.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $3.75 million to support Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement officers and $25 million for his nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership. Specifically, $3 million will go to the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) for operations; $475,000 will go to the Schererville, St. John, and Dyer Police Departments for law enforcement equipment; $225,000 will go to the Griffith Police Department for law enforcement equipment; and $50,000 will go to the Hebron Police Department for law enforcement equipment. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. “Times are tough and I know that law enforcement agencies in Northwest Indiana and across the country are suffering,” said Visclosky. “With the economy slumping and communities in turmoil, it is more important than ever to provide officers with the resources they need to fight crime and drugs and keep our communities safe. This funding is designed to do exactly that.” In addition to the support for law enforcement included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, the American Recovery and Reinvestment programs enacted into law last week by President Obama include $2 billion for Byrne Justice Assistance formula grants to support local law enforcement efforts with equipment and operating costs, $1 billion for the COPS hiring grant program, and an additional $1 billion in other support for state and local law enforcement.$3 Million for Lake County HIDTA The $3 million for the Lake County HIDTA will be used to continue the HIDTA’s drug control programs. Visclosky helped create the Lake County HIDTA in 1996 to aid Northwest Indiana in overcoming a wave of drug and gang crime. He has helped it secure over $36 million for anti-drug and anti-gang efforts since then. The HIDTA, which is administrated by the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has made over 3,900 arrests and seized drugs and firearms worth a combined street value of over $251 million. “The HIDTA is an invaluable law enforcement resource in the battle against drugs and gang crime,” said Visclosky. “Through the HIDTA, our local law enforcement agencies are able to tap into special federal resources that help them gain the upper hand in the battle against criminals who plague our communities.” “The Lake County Executive Board would like to thank Congressman Pete Visclosky and his staff for their continued support of the Lake County HIDTA program,” said Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the F.B.I. Indianapolis Division Tom Gancarz. “The Lake County HIDTA initiatives will benefit greatly from the grant money to continue the dismantlement of drug trafficking organizations, target violent gangs, and the illicit gun trade in Lake County to make the citizens safer.”$750,000 for Five Local Police Departments The $750,000 for local police departments will be used to purchase technological improvements that help keep communities safe. “Using modern equipment makes police officers more efficient and effective in patrolling our streets and keeping our communities safe in both routine and emergency situations,” said Visclosky. “This support for technological improvements like new communications systems, in-car video cameras, and mobile data terminals will help Northwest Indiana’s officers do their jobs even better.” The $475,000 for Schererville, St. John, and Dyer will purchase end-user and infrastructure equipment and related software, which will enhance the communication and data interoperability between the departments. The new equipment will allow the departments to meet their goals of utilizing information technology and enhancing communications to better meet the needs of the tri-town community. “Enhancing the opportunities to provide safer and more efficient methods regarding emergency, and community oriented affiliations, will be significantly increased due to grant provisions designed by Congressman Pete Visclosky,” said Dyer Police Chief Richard Quinn. “His efforts to support first responders throughout the Northwest Indiana area have reassured the law enforcement community of his, and the federal government’s, commitment to necessary technological support. This coordinated endeavor delivers vital tools ensuring a finely tuned product of professional service.” The $225,000 for Griffith will be used for upgrades to the dispatch center, the purchase of new digital in-car camera systems for patrol cars, and the purchase of graffiti removal equipment. “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his continued support of Griffith and the law enforcement community, which has been invaluable,” said Griffith Police Chief Ron Kottka. “This funding will help us upgrade our communication center and our in-car video system. The upgrades will bring the Griffith Police Department into the 21st century and help my officers protect the citizens of Griffith during routine and emergency situations.” The $50,000 for Hebron will be used for the purchase of new digital in-car camera systems for patrol cars. “The cameras that we will install in our cars with this funding will help us safeguard both our citizens and our police officers,” said Hebron Police Chief Steven Sibbrell. “I am very appreciative of the Congressman’s support, which helps us keep the citizens safe.”$25 Million for Visclosky’s Nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership The Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill also contains $25 million for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership, which Visclosky created in 1998 after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment. The Partnership funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Since 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 818,000 law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. In Northwest Indiana, it has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. “A bulletproof vest is an essential, life-saving safety item that can be too costly for some law enforcement officers,” said Visclosky. “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership provides assistance for purchasing a bulletproof vest so that they are affordable and available to officers everywhere. In Northwest Indiana, the program has supported the purchase of many vests that keep our officers safe every day in the line of duty.” “In these tough times with tight budgets, it’s important to be able to get access to bulletproof vests,” said Fraternal Order of Police Indiana State Chairman and National Sergeant at Arms Tim Downs. “Congressman Visclosky’s program makes it much easier to obtain vests. Law enforcement officers across the country appreciate the importance of the program. It saves lives.” On October 15, 2008, President Bush signed Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 into law, extending the Partnership through Fiscal Year 2012, which continues the grant program for three years. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 404-2, passed the Senate unanimously, and garnered widespread support in the law enforcement community.
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $2,887,000 for education and youth programs in Northwest Indiana. Specifically, $750,000 will go to the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana to expand its programming and upgrade technology; $250,000 will go to Valparaiso University for meteorological equipment; $850,000 will go to the YWCA of Northwest Indiana for after-school and summer programs; $823,000 will go to Ivy Tech Community College Northwest for the establishment of a Center on Logistics, Distribution, and Transportation; $119,000 will go to KIPP LEAD College Prep School for student programs, staff training, and curricula development; and $95,000 will go to Crisis Center for improvements to its youth emergency shelter. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which is scheduled for consideration and passage by the U.S. House of Representatives tomorrow. “A good education is the key to success,” said Visclosky. “In Northwest Indiana we have tremendous educational resources that can help prepare residents for accomplished careers in the new economy. This federal assistance for programs that educate and involve people of all ages will help the current and future generations in Northwest Indiana reinvigorate our economy and make the region a powerful economic player.”$750,000 for the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana The funding for the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana will be used to expand programming and upgrade the technology needed to run the Center in Hammond. The funds will also be used to expand the Center’s planetarium to offer new shows and programs and to offer additional workshops that provide valuable professional development opportunities for teachers. The Center is seen by both educators and public officials as a vital educational resource for Northwest Indiana that trains teachers and provides classroom materials to augment standard science curricula. Over 100,000 students have learned from the Center’s programs since it opened in 1999. “The Challenger Learning Center engages students in science, technology, engineering, and math—the educational foundation for 21st century jobs—by making learning fun,” said Visclosky. “In doing so, it provides an important service to the region that has helped a vast number of students over the years and will continue to do so into the future.” “The $750,000 that Congressman Visclosky helped secure for the Challenger Learning Center will allow us to continue to provide exceptional programming to students, teachers, businesses and families,” said Executive Director Amanda Maynard. “In order to prepare our children to compete in the global marketplace, we need to continue to offer extensive, quality programs in science, technology, engineering and math. This money will ensure that our technologies and programs are kept as current as possible.”$250,000 for Valparaiso University The funding for Valparaiso University (VU) will be used by the University’s Department of Geography and Meteorology for equipment upgrades and program support. The Department is at the top of its field and VU is one of only a few universities in the nation to use dual-polarization Doppler radar and radiosonde balloon technology. The technology is used in student and faculty research and also helps keep Northwest Indiana prepared for significant weather events such as lake effect snow, tornadoes, and severe rain storms. In fiscal year 2008 Visclosky secured $817,000 for the department’s radar system. “The Valparaiso University Meteorology Department is engaged in advanced research that attracts great minds to Northwest Indiana and equips students for high-tech jobs,” said Visclosky. “It also offers an essential public safety service by keeping residents informed of significant weather events.” “Valparaiso University is very appreciative of Congressman Visclosky's leadership in the Congress,” said Dr. Jon Kilpinen, Dean of the College of Arts & Sciences and Associate Professor of Geography and Meteorology. “The $250,000 he secured for the VU meteorology program will support the leading edge weather technology and research being done at Valparaiso University, for the benefit of students and the entire community.”$850,000 for YWCA of Northwest Indiana The funding for the YWCA of Northwest Indiana will be used to expand the Kids Café program. The Kids Café program provides a safe haven for children, including at-risk youth, to prevent them from engaging in destructive behavior like crime and drugs. It offers a nurturing after-school and summer environment for children between the ages of six and 17 and their families. In fiscal year 2008, Visclosky secured $191,000 for the YWCA’s programs. “The YWCA provides women and children in Gary with the support they need to build successful lives for themselves,” said Visclosky. “By offering a positive environment, Kids Café empowers children for academic success and healthy, productive lives.” “Kids Café has really blossomed over the last year into a full service after school program that is looking at not only academics and one-on-one tutoring, but also physical activity, nutritional instruction, and parent involvement at every step of the program,” said YWCA Interim Executive Director Boni Fine. “The federal grant has enabled the YWCA to dramatically expand the programming offered in the after school program.”$823,000 for Ivy Tech Community College Northwest The funding for Ivy Tech Community College Northwest will be used for the establishment of a Center on Logistics, Distribution, and Transportation at the Gary campus to provide students training in that industry. Northwest Indiana has a diverse mix of air, land, and sea shipping options and the new Center will allow the area’s residents to take advantage of the region’s logistics, distribution, and transportation resources by pursuing careers in that field. “One of the keys to building a new economy in Northwest Indiana is diversifying our economic base,” said Visclosky. “We possess a unique collection of transportation resources that could allow us to become a leader in the logistics, distribution, and transportation industry. Ivy Tech is taking the lead in preparing local residents to tap those resources and pursue successful careers in the industry.” “This investment in our Gary campus will help provide training for an industry that is important to the economic growth of the region,” said Ivy Tech Community College President Tom Snyder. “We look forward to the opportunity to provide the talent needed to fill some of the workforce gaps that currently exist in this industry. Ivy Tech Community College greatly appreciates the strong support of Congressman Visclosky for our state's community college system and looks forward to working closely with the Congressman in responding to the needs of our employers and serving as the engine for workforce development in the state.”$119,000 for KIPP LEAD College Prep School The funding for KIPP LEAD College Prep School will be used for student programs, staff training, and curricula development at the Gary school. KIPP LEAD offers an innovative curriculum in which students are in class longer than in most public schools and attend school during the summer. The school fosters leadership, empathy, achievement, and determination through rigorous academic programs that are balanced with diverse extracurricular activities. “KIPP LEAD takes an innovative approach toward learning that builds complete individuals who succeed inside and outside of the classroom,” said Visclosky. “Their pioneering educational philosophy helps students overcome obstacles to lead productive lives.” “The students at KIPP LEAD are grateful for Congressman Visclosky’s effort to secure needed resources during difficult financial times for our extended day program,” said Founding School Leader April Goble. “These funds will support our students as they climb the mountain to college by attending school from 8am-5pm each day, which adds up to 60 percent more time in school.”$95,000 for Crisis Center The funding for Crisis Center will go toward improvements to Alternative House, its runaway and homeless youth emergency shelter. Alternative House provides shelter, counseling, transportation, recreation, and other services for boys and girls, ages six to 18, who are homeless, runaways, abused, or neglected. “Every child deserves an opportunity to succeed in life, but some have personal or family problems that adversely affect them,” said Visclosky. “Crisis Center’s Alternative House is a place where kids can go to get the support they need to overcome those problems and thrive.” “The Crisis Center shelters boys and girls whose lives are endangered by providing emergency shelter and changes their futures for the better by removing them from the streets,” said Executive Director Shirley Caylor. “This money will help the Crisis Center reach out to more children and help us renovate the dorm area for boys.”
02.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation Project will receive $24 million in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act. The bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives today and is scheduled for consideration and passage on Wednesday, February 25. “This ample installment of federal funds ensures that federal assistance remains available for levee construction,” said Visclosky. “I have always fought hard to ensure that the federal funding for the project is available and am proud to provide this large dose of funding. In order for work to continue, and for this essential project to be completed, it is imperative that a local funding match is secured.” The $24 million represents a $10 million increase over the original amount for fiscal year 2009 that Visclosky announced in July 2008 for construction of levees between Northcote Avenue and the State Line. Once complete, the project will include 22 miles of levees and flood walls that protect the citizens and businesses of Garry, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that flooding on the Little Calumet River causes $11 million in damages annually and the completion of the flood control project will protect homes and businesses to minimize the costs associated with flooding. In order for the Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, the project’s local sponsor, to access the new federal funds and continue work on the project it must secure its portion of the local cost share. “Given the urgency of this matter, I hope the state will act quickly to provide the funds required to complete this project,” said Visclosky. “We need to complete these levees as quickly as possible so that we can protect people’s lives, homes, and businesses from the next flood.”
02.20.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Jasper County Airport will receive a $48,693 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as reimbursement for the construction of a taxiway. “Investing in our transportation infrastructure is a key component to building a new economy for Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “This grant, which will help increase safety and operational efficiency at the Jasper County Airport, will help the airport continue to play an important role in the local economy. An improved airport means an improved Jasper County.” The FAA grant awarded today provides reimbursement for the construction of the connecter Taxiway B-2 which is part of the parallel taxiway system to Runway 18/36. Taxiways improve safety and efficiency by eliminating back-taxiing and providing separation between taxiing aircraft and those taking off and landing. The funding was awarded through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which is intended to support improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. To be eligible for a grant, an airport must be included in the National Plan for Integrated Airport Systems, which identifies public-use airports that are important to public transportation and contribute to the needs of civil aviation, national defense, and the postal service.
02.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he and Pastor David A. Reed of Reed’s Temple Church of God in Christ in Griffith will host a Black History Month celebration on Wednesday, February 18, 2009, at 7:00 p.m. The celebration will feature The Honorable Lorraine C. Miller, the first African American and third woman to serve as an officer of the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am very excited that Lorraine will be coming to Northwest Indiana to join us in celebrating Black History Month,” said Visclosky. “She is a distinguished public servant who is a point of motivation for all in our community. I am grateful to Pastor Reed for welcoming us into his church and look forward to an educational and inspirational evening in honor of the many contributions African Americans have made to the United States throughout our history.” “During this exciting time in our nation’s history, we not only have had the opportunity to experience change at the national level, but within our own state,” said Pastor Reed. “The Reed’s Temple Church family is honored to have the first African American Clerk of the House of Representatives, Lorraine Miller, to exhibit leadership at its highest level. During these difficult, challenging economic times, we look for public servants who can be civic role models for our church membership. I feel that we can direct our attention to Ms. Miller. We are excited to see the positive changes that have been, and will continue to be, demonstrated by both Congressman Visclosky and Clerk Miller.”Who: Congressman Pete Visclosky Pastor David A. Reed The Honorable Lorraine C. Miller, Clerk of the U.S. House of RepresentativesWhat: Black History Month CelebrationWhen: Wednesday, February 18, 2009, at 7:00 p.m.Where: Reed’s Temple Church of God in Christ 1300 North Broad Street Griffith, IndianaAbout The Honorable Lorraine C. Miller: Lorraine C. Miller was sworn in as the 35th Clerk of the House of Representatives on February 15, 2007. The clerk manages the day-to-day operations of the House and oversees nine departments that employ more than 270 people. She is the first African American and third woman to serve as an officer of the United States House of Representatives. Ms. Miller previously served as Senior Advisor and Director of Intergovernmental Relations to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and has nearly two decades of experience working for the House. In addition to working for Speaker Pelosi, Ms. Miller has worked for two other Speakers, Jim Wright and Tom Foley, as well as Congressman John Lewis of Georgia. Ms. Miller’s extensive government tenure includes work as the Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs (House) during the Clinton Administration. She served as Bureau Chief for Consumer Information at the Federal Communications Commission after serving four years as the Director of Government Relations for the Federal Trade Commission. A life-long supporter and Golden Heritage Life member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Ms. Miller was elected president of the Washington, D.C. Branch NAACP in 2004 and elected to the NAACP National Board of Directors in February 2008. A native of Fort Worth, Texas, Ms. Miller graduated from North Texas State University with a bachelor’s degree in political science and later earned an executive master’s degree from the Georgetown School of Business. She is a member of the historic Shiloh Baptist Church of Washington, where she sings in its Senior Choir and a member of Shiloh’s Henry C. Gregory Family Life Center Foundation Board of Directors.
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, today convened a hearing on the state of the steel industry. The panel featured a bipartisan group of Members of Congress who heard testimony from industry leaders on the steel industry’s legislative priorities, specifically job creation, fair trade, and climate change legislation. “As the proud representative of Northwest Indiana’s steelmakers I am fully committed to ensuring the health of the industry,” said Visclosky. “To that end, protecting and creating jobs is my top priority and I will continue leading the fight for Buy American and fair trade.” The hearing featured testimony from the following industry leaders: Tom Conway, International Vice President of the United Steelworkers; Dan DiMicco, Chairman, CEO, and President of the Nucor Corporation; Louis L. Schorsch, President and CEO of Flat Carbon Americas for ArcelorMittal John P. Surma, Chairman and CEO of the United States Steel Corporation; and James L. Wainscott, Chairman, President and CEO of the AK Steel Corporation and Chairman of the American Iron and Steel Institute. Buy American The participants in the hearing affirmed their support for the Buy American provision Visclosky included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to require the use of American iron and steel in infrastructure projects funded by the economic revitalization effort. That Buy American provision, the witnesses asserted, will help the industry make more steel and employ more workers without violating international trade agreements. “Buying American steel is a guaranteed way to protect and create jobs for steelworkers in Northwest Indiana and all across America,” said Visclosky. “The mills are operating below half capacity and many steelworkers are on layoff, ready to go back to work to make the steel we need to rebuild America. Buying American steel is a smart use of taxpayer dollars that will create American jobs and enable us to build a stronger, safer United States.” “We think this is good, old fashioned common sense because it would create the biggest bang for taxpayer dollars by keeping and creating many more manufacturing jobs here in the United States,” testified Conway, a Northwest Indiana native. “If we are going to spend trillions of our tax dollars to support U.S. banks, and build roads and bridges and schools across our great land, then we ought to make absolutely certain that the wages associated with that activity are paid to American workers,” testified Wainscott.Fair Trade In addition to discussing economic revitalization and Buy American, the panel highlighted the importance of remaining vigilant for unfair trade practices by other countries. The witnesses identified China as a country that employs unjust policies to give its steel industry a competitive advantage, in turn hurting American producers. “We must remain constantly vigilant for unfair trade practices from other countries,” said Visclosky. “China is the poster boy when it comes to cheating at trade, but it is imperative that we enforce our trade laws against all unjust imports so that our workers can compete on a fair, level playing field. With the global economy struggling, other countries are going to try to export their unemployment to the U.S. and I will use every tool at my disposal to ensure that we stop them.” “The fact is, we are already in a trade war—a war by some foreign governments on the American working family—where foreign protectionist governments and companies are using illegal and mercantilist trade practices every day, and the rules are not being enforced,” testified DiMicco. “It is time for our American leaders to stand up for working Americans and insist on law and order. That is why the next most important thing that Congress and the President can do is to enforce our trade laws, especially against China.” “As we face such severe economic challenges it is critical that both the Congress and the Obama administration remain extraordinarily vigilant against those who would seek to subvert or ignore existing trade rules,” testified Schorsch. “In past periods of economic weakness—much less severe than what we face today—trading partners have been tempted to export their unemployment. Such behavior—more than so-called protectionism—is the major threat to our open, rules-based trading system. We urge you to do all you can to send the message that the US intends to vigorously uphold its rules in this very challenging environment.”Energy and Climate Change Lastly, participants in the hearing considered the effect energy and climate change policy would have on the steel industry. Specifically, the industry leaders expressed concern that cap and trade legislation has the potential to unfairly punish carbon-intensive industries like steel. They also reminded the Caucus that the steel industry can make other contributions to efforts aimed at climate change. For example, it now takes one third less energy to produce a ton of steel than it did in 1990 and steel is highly recyclable, extending its lifetime. “I believe that climate change is real, that it is man made, and that we must take legislative action to reverse its course,” said Visclosky. “But when we do, the new law has to be fair and take into consideration that making steel requires carbon emissions. That way the steel industry can stay competitive and remain a solid employer.” “Climate policy is not a side issue for us,” testified Surma. “It is a central, strategic concern already shaping the future of the global steel industry. Make no mistake, a million American jobs and billions of dollars in capital investment hang in the balance. Furthermore, global environmental progress is also at risk if U.S. policy impairs the competitiveness of American-made steel.”The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs.
01.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the City of Gary will receive a $3,836,758 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program. The funding is intended to help the city address the public safety and quality of life issues posed by abandoned and foreclosed properties. “This grant will help Gary tackle the public safety and crime problems associated with urban decay by attacking the source itself, foreclosed and abandoned properties,” said Visclosky. “Urban revitalization begins with creating clean, safe neighborhoods that offer an improved quality of life. These funds should help Gary reverse the course of urban decline that is plaguing some neighborhoods and build the vibrant communities they can become.” The Neighborhood Stabilization Program was authorized by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which Visclosky supported, to provide emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties that might otherwise become sources of abandonment and blight within their communities. The funds may be used in a variety of ways, including establishing financing mechanisms to assist individuals in purchasing foreclosed homes, acquiring and rehabilitating abandoned or foreclosed homes, establishing a land bank for foreclosed homes, demolition of blighted structures, and redevelopment of vacant and demolished properties.
01.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Gary/Chicago International Airport (GCA) will receive a $5,344,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for airport expansion efforts. “The Gary Airport can become an economic engine for the region,” said Visclosky. “These federal funds will help the airport execute its master plan and be a part of Northwest Indiana’s new economy. There is a lot of work to be done at the airport and I will do everything I can to support its efforts to become a major airport and an economic powerhouse.” The FAA grant awarded today provides the fourth payment of the Letter of Intent that was approved in 2006. The Letter of Intent provides $57.8 million over 10 years, available in installments of up to $6 million per year, for improvements and expansion that will help GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. The planned expansion would increase the size of the airport by roughly 50 percent and extend the main runway to a length of 9,000 feet. To date, GCA has received over $20 million under the Letter of Intent. Visclosky has long been an advocate for GCA, working with local officials to best utilize the facility. In addition to supporting the airport’s efforts to secure the Letter of Intent, he directed $14.6 million to the airport for apron expansion, runway overlay, safety modernization, and various other improvements, and $24.961 million for the Indiana National Guard Readiness Center at the airport. “The Gary Airport is an untapped resource for the region that we must take advantage of,” said Visclosky. “I encourage the city and the Airport Authority to seek a public-private partnership that will utilize these funds to maximize the airport’s potential and turn GCA into a profit-making enterprise.”
01.21.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, today amended the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to include American Steel First provisions during a House Appropriations Committee markup of the legislation. Visclosky’s amendment, which passed by a vote of 55 to zero with one Member voting present, makes projects funded by the bill use only American-made steel. “My American Steel First Amendment sends a clear message to American steel makers: We support you, and want you to be a part of our economic recovery,” said Visclosky. “Our steel mills are operating under capacity, ready to make the steel we need to rebuild America. Buying all our steel from domestic producers will send steelworkers back into the mills, adding to the benefits of the infrastructure projects.” Visclosky’s amendment applies the principles of his American Steel First Act, which he introduced last week, to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act so that all steel bought with monies appropriated by the bill be made in America. Under Visclosky’s leadership, the Steel Caucus had previously sent a bipartisan letter to House Leadership urging the inclusion of American Steel First provisions in the economic revitalization legislation, but they were omitted. This amendment rectifies their exclusion. American steel mills are running at 44 percent of their capacity, but could quickly ramp up production to meet the demands of the economic stimulus package. For example, ArcelorMittal’s Burns Harbor plant recently laid off 490 workers and has 900 more on a shortened workweek. “I firmly believe that my amendment will give the economic stimulus package the broad, lasting impact on our workers and our economy that it needs to,” said Visclosky. “If we are going to expend such a massive sum of money, it must be spent on American products and workers. This bill coming out of the Appropriations Committee will do just that for our steel and steelworkers.”
01.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, today introduced the American Steel First Act along with Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), Vice Chairman of the Steel Caucus, and 27 other bipartisan original cosponsors. The legislation would strengthen the Buy America law to ensure only American-made steel is used in construction projects executed by the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Transportation. “As we work to revitalize our economy by modernizing and expanding our infrastructure, we can take the effort a step further by using only American construction materials, especially steel,” said Visclosky. “My American Steel First Act will help ensure that American steel makers are an important part of our economic stimulus so that Northwest Indiana’s mills stay running.” The American Steel First Act is intended to support domestic steel producers and address the public safety threat posed by substandard steel imports. Last month, Visclosky, Murphy, and 42 other bipartisan Members of Congress sent a letter to House Leadership urging them to include American Steel First provisions in the economic stimulus package. “If the government wants to stimulate the economy by building infrastructure, then we need to make sure American steel goes into those projects and steelworkers are a part of the recovery,” said Jim Robinson, United Steelworkers District 7 Director. “Pete’s bill is a commonsense way to get America working again and will benefit steelworkers in Northwest Indiana and across the country.” Visclosky introduced identical legislation last year during the 110th Congress. That bill garnered 34 bipartisan cosponsors and was approved by the House Committee on Homeland Security before the 110th Congress adjourned. Visclosky also successfully amended two bills that passed the House of Representatives during the 110th Congress to include the provisions in the American Steel First Act, but neither passed the Senate or was signed into law. “Now more than ever, the U.S. government should lead by example, reject unfair imports from countries like China, and uphold American manufacturing,” said Visclosky. “The American Steel First Act will make the government start buying American as it ought to be, and help Northwest Indiana and the nation pull through these terribly trying times.”
01.14.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-IN), Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), Vice Chairman of the Caucus, today submitted written testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) urging it to determine that unfairly traded circular welded stainless austenitic pressure pipe from China injures U.S. industry and workers. If the ITC finds in the affirmative it will direct the Department of Commerce to issue antidumping and countervailing duties on such Chinese products: January 14, 2009 The Honorable Shara L. Aranoff Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, Southwest Washington, DC 20436 Re: Circular Welded Stainless Austenitic Pressure Pipe from People’s Republic of China, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-454 and 731-TA-1144 (Final) Dear Chairman Aranoff: We are writing to urge the U.S. International Trade Commission to determine that imports of unfairly traded stainless austenitic pressure pipe from China are injuring the U.S. industry and its workers. It is our understanding that the Commission held the final injury hearing on this matter on January 13, 2009, and we ask that these comments be submitted for the record. As the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we have been strong supporters of the industry and its workers and recognize the importance of this current case under final review at the Commission. The petitioners in this case include Bristol Metals L.L.C., (Bristol, Tennessee); Felker Brothers Corporation (Marshfield, Wisconsin and Glasgow, Kentucky), Marcegaglia USA, Inc., (Munhall, Pennsylvania), Outokumpu Stainless Pipe of Wildwood, Florida and the United Steelworkers (USW). They filed the antidumping and countervailing duty petitions on imports of stainless steel pipe from China on January 30, 2008. These stainless steel pipe producers are important to the overall health of the industry and our nation’s economy. The products manufactured at these companies are used for the chemical, petrochemical, food processing, energy, brewery, automotive, and paper industries, which are all important components of the domestic manufacturing base. This industry is also an important customer to the domestic stainless flat rolled industry that manufactures the input product used in stainless pipe production. We are all too aware of the state of our national economy that has been crippled by a devastating recession. At a time when the industry is facing financial losses and when workers are being laid off, it is imperative that we work to ensure that our trade laws are vigorously enforced for domestic companies and workers. This industry has experienced the financial losses incurred as a result of dumped and subsidized imports. In August 2008, the Department of Commerce issued a preliminary antidumping determination and announced that imports of stainless pipe were dumped at a margin of 22.03%. In June 2008, the Department issued a preliminary countervailing duty determination that imports were subsidized at a rate of 1% to 100%. The Department is expected to issue their final antidumping and countervailing duty determinations this month. As the data reflects in the recent Commission’s staff report, Chinese imports more than doubled from 13,993 tons in 2005 to 31,766 tons in 2007. These imports took approximately 30 percent of the U.S. market. It is very important that the trade laws are used to provide relief to the industry and workers and in this investigation, the data clearly shows that without restraints in place, imports will injure the domestic industry and lead to further economic losses. We also believe that the industry has made a very strong case that it has incurred material injury as a result of these unfairly dumped and subsidized imports. An affirmative determination by the Commission in this investigation will ensure that this important sector of the U.S. steel industry has the ability to compete now and into the future. We ask the Commission to keep these views in mind as you consider this matter. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus Tim Murphy Vice Chairman Congressional Steel Caucus
12.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that HealthLinc Community Health Center in Valparaiso will receive a $626,112 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “My goal is secure and affordable quality healthcare for all,” said Visclosky. “With our economy struggling and healthcare costs rising, it is reassuring to know that community health centers like HealthLinc provide people the care they need at prices they can pay.” The Department of Health and Human Services awarded the grant through the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Consolidated Health Centers program. The program is intended to improve the health of the nation's under- and uninsured by assuring access to comprehensive, quality healthcare. Specifically, the funding will be used to improve the availability and accessibility of primary care services. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, an average of 732,000 people in Indiana, about 11 percent of the state’s population, had no health insurance during 2006 and 2007. Nationwide, the number of Americans under the age of 65 living without health insurance was over 45 million. Community health centers serve those under- and uninsured people through efforts to overcome the many impediments they face while trying to access healthcare. For example, centers may operate extended hours to accommodate patients’ work schedules and charge a sliding fee scale so that patients can afford to get the care they need.
12.15.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Gary Community Health Center will receive a $325,458 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “We need secure, affordable, quality healthcare for all,” said Visclosky. “Gary Community Health Center offers a critical service to under- and uninsured people in Gary and surrounding communities in Northwest Indiana by offering primary healthcare to everybody, regardless of their ability to pay. With our economy struggling and healthcare costs rising, it is reassuring to know that community health centers offer people a place where they can go to get the care they need.” The Department of Health and Human Services awarded the grant through the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Consolidated Health Centers program. The program is intended to improve the health of the nation's under- and uninsured by assuring access to comprehensive, quality healthcare. Specifically, the funding will be used to improve the availability and accessibility of primary care services. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, an average of 732,000 people in Indiana, about 11 percent of the state’s population, had no health insurance during 2006 and 2007. Nationwide, the number of Americans under the age of 65 living without health insurance was over 45 million. Community health centers serve those under- and uninsured people through efforts to overcome the many impediments they face while trying to access healthcare. For example, centers may operate extended hours to accommodate patients’ work schedules and charge a sliding fee scale so that patients can afford to get the care they need.
12.03.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has made available the $500,000 for flood control efforts in Lake Station and Hobart he secured in the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2009. The funding will be used to address flooding problems in Lake Station and Hobart that occur when heavy rains cause water levels in Lake George to spill over into Deep River and Burns Ditch. “Flooding is a serious problem across Northwest Indiana and these funds will help minimize the danger in an area that has suffered repeated flooding,” said Visclosky. “Flooding is both a public safety issue and an economic issue, and this project will help protect the health, homes, businesses, and vitality of residents in Lake Station and Hobart. I commend the two cities on working together to address this critical issue and hope the project moves forward quickly.” The funds Visclosky secured were awarded through FEMA’s Pre-Disaster Mitigation program for hazard mitigation planning and the implementation of mitigation projects prior to disaster events. The program’s objective is to reduce the overall risk posed by disasters to people and property, while also reducing reliance on funding from disaster declarations. Repeated floods from Lake George have caused considerable personal and financial hardship to the residents of Lake Station and Hobart. The two cities are working together to develop a flood control plan that mitigates the threat of floods by removing debris from Deep River and its watershed, stabilizing the river banks, upgrading water management structures, and investigating other preventive measures. The efforts are intended to lessen the overall risk posed to residents and structures by flooding and reduce reliance on funding from disaster declarations. “As a child growing up, I remember the same area flooding, so this has been going on for forty plus years,” said Keith Soderquist, Mayor of Lake Station. “The dramatic recent floods shed more light on this issue and the money couldn’t have come soon enough. By working with Congressman Visclosky to acquire these monies, we are setting Lake Station on the right path. We are putting together a comprehensive plan to address flood issues in Lake Station. ” “This project is another example of Congressman Visclosky showing his commitment to the communities of Hobart and Lake Station and the citizens of those communities,” said Brian Snedecor, Mayor of Hobart. “In regards to the funding for this project, it is of the utmost importance to both communities to be able to properly protect our citizens and their property from the floods that have plagued us in the past.”
11.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that community health centers in Northwest Indiana will receive $1,269,452 in grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. NorthShore Health Centers will receive $968,841 and East Chicago Community Health Center will receive $300,611. “Everybody deserves access to quality, affordable healthcare,” said Visclsoky. “Northwest Indiana’s community health centers offer a critical service by providing excellent care to the region’s under- and uninsured. Without them, a lot less people would have access to the care they need.” The Department of Health and Human Services awarded the grants through the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Consolidated Health Centers program. The program is intended to improve the health of the nation's under- and uninsured by assuring access to comprehensive, quality healthcare. Specifically, the funding will be used to improve the availability and accessibility of primary care services. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, an average of 732,000 people in Indiana, about 11 percent of the state’s population, had no health insurance during 2006 and 2007. Nationwide, the number of Americans living without health insurance was 45.7 million. Community health centers serve those under- and uninsured people through efforts to overcome the many impediments they face while trying to access healthcare. For example, centers may operate extended hours to accommodate patients’ work schedules and charge a sliding fee scale so that patients can afford to get the care they need. “Our healthcare crisis is a huge burden on our struggling economy,” said Visclosky. “We need to build on the good work done at community health centers to make healthcare secure and affordable for everyone.”
11.21.2008	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus today announced that it has selected Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) to be its Vice Chairman in the upcoming 111th Congress. Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-IN) will continue to serve as Chairman. “I am excited to work with Congressman Murphy on the most important issues facing the domestic steel industry and America’s steelworkers,” said Visclosky. “He has been a strong advocate for American steel, fighting to protect jobs and make trade fair, and I am eager to work closely with him to keep steel strong.” “Pittsburgh was founded on steel. It is the backbone of our regional economy and thousands of jobs in the region depend on it. As an integral part of Pennsylvania and our nation’s heritage, I will work closely with Chairman Visclosky to ensure that the domestic steel industry remains a strong and vital part of our economy. I am thrilled to serve as Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus and look forward to working with Congressman Visclosky to strengthen the U.S. steel industry and grow jobs,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. With the economy struggling and the steel industry in a down cycle, Visclosky and Murphy will utilize their leadership roles to ensure that steel is part of the economic revitalization efforts. Two priorities in 2009 will be enacting the American Steel First Act, a bill to require the use of domestic steel in federally-funded infrastructure projects, and enforcing fair trade laws. The initiatives together will help increase demand for domestic steel and create better opportunities for American producers to compete in the international market. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of over 100 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs.
09.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive $13,435,255.47 in U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grants. Lake County will receive $5,738,024.37; Hammond will receive $3,860,473.48; and Gary will receive $3,836,757.62. The funding was awarded through the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which is intended to help areas hit hard by foreclosures. “The foreclosure crisis has hit some of our communities especially hard, with foreclosed and abandoned homes destabilizing neighborhoods and threatening to bring down the hardworking people who live nearby,” said Visclosky. “This HUD funding for Northwest Indiana will help the people on Main Street who have been hit hard by the mortgage crisis, and aid in minimizing the crisis’ potentially widespread impact on the region.” HUD’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program provides emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties that might otherwise become sources of abandonment and blight within their communities. The Program provides grants to purchase foreclosed or abandoned homes and to rehabilitate, resell, or redevelop these homes in order to stabilize neighborhoods and stem the decline in value of neighboring homes. It was authorized under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, a comprehensive housing bill to help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future, and help the recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught in the foreclosure process. Visclosky supported the bill and it was enacted into law on July 30. According to HUD, Indiana has a 6.7 percent statewide foreclosure rate and a high statewide abandonment risk. Lake County’s foreclosure rate is 6.3 percent and the local abandonment risk is rated as low. However, Hammond’s foreclosure rate is 12.6 percent, Gary’s is 18.1 percent, and both have a high local abandonment risk. “Stabilizing our neighborhoods that have been hit hard by foreclosures not only helps protect the homes of those living nearby, but is also the first step toward recovery from the mortgage crisis,” said Visclosky. “This federal investment in Northwest Indiana’s communities will help us rebuild our economy from the grassroots up.”
09.29.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $500,000 for flood control efforts in Lake Station and Hobart in the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2009, which has passed both the House and Senate and President Bush is expected to sign into law. The funding will be used to address flooding problems in Lake Station and Hobart that occur when heavy rains cause water levels in Lake George to spill over into Deep River and Burns Ditch. “Just a few weeks ago the Lake George Dam overtopped and flooding occurred along Deep River and Burns Ditch,” said Visclosky. “Repeated floods from Lake George have caused considerable personal and financial hardship to the residents of Lake Station and Hobart and I am happy to provide federal funds to protect people’s homes, businesses, and general wellbeing.” The two municipalities are working together to develop a flood control plan that mitigates the flood problem at Lake George by removing debris from Deep River and its watershed, stabilizing the river banks, upgrading water management structures, and investigating other preventive measures. The efforts are intended to lessen the overall risk posed to residents and structures by flooding and reduce reliance on funding from disaster declarations. “As a child growing up, I remember the same area flooding, so this has been going on for forty plus years,” said Keith Soderquist, Mayor of Lake Station. “Knowing this has been a problematic situation in heavy rains, I was quite surprised that it was never truly addressed. By working with Congressman Visclosky and acquiring these monies, we are setting Lake Station on the right path. We are putting together a comprehensive plan to address flood issues in Lake Station.” “This is a cooperative effort between the two communities to move water between the two in a better, safer fashion, and to minimize the impact of flooding that we’ve both experienced, especially recently,” said Brian Snedecor, Mayor of Hobart. “I look forward to working with Mayor Soderquist to utilize this money for the benefit of our communities.” “These funds will address a critical infrastructure need in Lake Station and Hobart,” said Visclosky. “I commend the two cities for working together to address the flooding problems that have plagued them in the past. I am confident that this project will help alleviate the problems associated with flooding so that people’s homes and possessions are protected.”
09.27.2008	Washington, D.C. – Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives today blocked H.R. 6707, the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety (TRACS) Act. Congressman Pete Visclosky was an original cosponsor of the bill, which would have required the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to give greater consideration to the impact of railroad transactions on affected communities, including the pending CN/EJ&E transaction. “If the STB approves the CN/EJ&E transaction without consideration of its impact on the affected communities, it would do a grave injustice to the people of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “The TRACS Act would have ensured that the interests of our communities, and our neighbors in Illinois, get their due consideration when the STB evaluates the transaction, and would have helped ensure that our safety, economic, and environmental needs are met.” The TRACS Act would have applied to all transactions not approved by the STB prior to August 1, 2008, including the CN/EJ&E transaction, and would have required the Board to place greater consideration on the impact of railroad transactions on affected communities. In doing so, the STB would have had to give equal consideration to the public impact as the transportation benefits for the railroads of such transactions. Presently, the STB considers transportation benefits first and public impact second. Specifically, the TRACS Act would have required the STB to consider a transaction’s effect on local communities as far as public safety, grade crossing safety, hazardous materials transportation, emergency response systems, commuter rail, and Amtrak are concerned. The bill also would have required the STB to reject a proposed acquisition if it finds that the transaction’s adverse impacts on affected communities outweigh the transportation benefits in the transaction. Additionally, it would have allowed the STB to impose conditions to mitigate the effects of the transaction on local communities. The CN/EJ&E transaction would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana, cause the average train length to increase from 2,590 feet to 6,321 feet, and bring nearly ten times as many rail cars carrying hazardous materials to Northwest Indiana. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, it would bisect communities, impede the flow of automobile traffic, and create a considerable public safety concern. The proposed acquisition also would create new obstacles to economic development initiatives such as the expansion of the South Shore Line and the expansion of the Gary/Chicago International Airport. “We need the TRACS Act to protect Northwest Indiana from the CN/EJ&E transaction and to ensure that other communities don’t get similarly slammed by future transactions,” said Visclosky. “I am disappointed that Republicans decided to stand with the railroads today, instead of with the American people.”
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Crown Point Fire Department will receive a $16,550 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant to purchase a modular portable video system. “Northwest Indiana’s first responders are true heroes who risk all to keep our communities safe,” said Visclosky. “I am pleased to announce this DHS grant, which will help the Crown Point Fire Department continue to provide outstanding service to our community.” “We appreciate the commitment that Congressman Visclosky brings back to Lake County, Indiana, especially in the public safety field,” said David Uran, Mayor of Crown Point. “He’s always been a friend to Crown Point, and his dedication to our residents’ safety is clear. As someone who’s worked in law enforcement, I believe it has always been one of his top priorities, and I appreciate all his efforts.” The grant was awarded through DHS’ Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program, which is intended to enhance response capabilities, mutual aid, and interoperable communications by providing technology and equipment, along with the training required to operate that equipment, to emergency responder agencies in smaller jurisdictions. The funding will go toward a modular portable video system that has a range of uses from emergency rescues to searches to inspections. “I am exceedingly grateful for our brave firefighters and am glad that I can help provide them the resources they need to do their jobs,” said Visclosky.
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 6045, Congressman Pete Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008, a bill to help law enforcement officers purchase life-saving bulletproof vests, by an overwhelming vote of 404 - 2. The bill reauthorizes a Department of Justice grant program created by Visclosky in 1998 that provides law enforcement officers with assistance in purchasing protective equipment. “Law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities, so we owe it to them to help them stay safe,” said Visclosky. “I created the Bulletproof Vest Partnership to help officers acquire life-saving bulletproof vests. I am proud that it has been such a successful program, and am excited that it will be extended for another three years.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 would reauthorize the Bulletproof Vest Partnership through Fiscal Year 2012, extending the life of the grant program by three years. Since 1999, the year it began operating, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 1.5 million law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership is authorized at $50 million per year and funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Visclosky is optimistic that the Senate will pass the bill under unanimous consent prior to its upcoming adjournment, and that President Bush will enact it into law. Visclosky wrote the original authorizing bill for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment. In Northwest Indiana, the Partnership has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. “People should feel safe in their homes at night, and a properly-equipped police department can make that happen,” said Visclosky. “I am committed to making sure that Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement officers have the resources they need to keep us safe, and this bill accomplishes precisely that.”Support for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act: 170 bipartisan cosponsors in the House of Representatives; The Senate companion measure, introduced by Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT), has eight cosponsors, including Democratic Presidential Nominee Barack Obama (D-IL), Democratic Vice Presidential Nominee Joe Biden (D-DE), and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-PA); and The Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, National Association of Police Organizations, Fraternal Order of Police, National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition, International Association of Chiefs of Police, and the Southern States Police Benevolent Association endorsed the bill. Law Enforcement Leaders’ Praise for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership: Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police: “While we know that there is no way to end the deadly risks inherent in a law enforcement career, we must do everything possible to ensure that officers who put their lives on the line every day also put on a vest. Body armor is one of the most important pieces of equipment an officer can have and often means the difference between life and death.” Rod Gonzalez, Hobart Chief of Police: “With the financial issues we face in law enforcement today, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has been instrumental in outfitting our officers with quality vests. Not only initial issued vests, but also to replace vests that have reached their recommended limits on years of service. Congressman Visclosky’s concern for the safety of our officers continues, especially during these difficult fiscal times.” Angelo Machuca, East Chicago Chief of Police: “Nowadays, being a police officer in any city is a very challenging occupation, especially with our troubling economy. With the assistance of Congressman Visclosky’ s bulletproof vest program, my officers, as well as others, can at least be assured that as we fight our domestic battle at home, we will be well prepared for another chance at life.” Brian Miller, Hammond Chief of Police: “The Hammond Police Department is very grateful that Congressman Visclosky is again implementing a bullet resistant vest program. This grant ensures our police officers will have state of the art body armor while performing their duties. Congressman Visclosky obviously cares about the men and women in law enforcement.”
09.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – Purdue University Calumet, Senator Richard Lugar, and Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Purdue University Calumet’s Lugar-Visclosky Energy Forum and Expo will take place on Tuesday, October 7, 2008, from 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., at Purdue Calumet’s Calumet Conference Center. The Forum, a conversation on energy policy, runs from 1:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. featuring remarks from Senator Lugar and Congressman Visclosky, as well as a panel discussion with Andrew Hsu, Director of the Richard G. Lugar Center for Renewable Energy at IUPUI, Nate Mosier, Professor of Agricultural and Biological Engineering at Purdue University, and John DeCicco, Senior Fellow for Automotive Strategies at the Environmental Defense Fund. The Expo, an information fair showcasing innovative energy solutions, runs from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. “Underscoring our commitment to be a catalyst for addressing challenges facing Northwest Indiana, Purdue Calumet is proud to host this important event that advances expert, collective thinking about energy savings,” Purdue Calumet Chancellor Howard Cohen said. “Through our Energy Efficiency and Reliability Center and our Water Institute, we continue to serve this region as a valuable resource. Purdue Calumet is poised and positioned to make a difference well beyond this Forum and Expo.” “Our nation faces an energy crisis. Foreign governments control the vast majority of oil supplies on which our economy and way of life depend. Safeguarding our national security requires dramatic reductions on our oil dependence,” Lugar said. “Renewable energy offers the greatest hope to wed our energy security needs with economic growth and environmental stewardship. I'm excited to join with Pete Visclosky and Purdue Calumet for this important and timely energy forum in Northwest Indiana.” “Northwest Indiana’s hardworking families are suffering from high gas and energy prices,” said Visclosky. “The Energy Forum and Expo will provide a great opportunity for people to discuss what needs to be done to solve the crisis, to learn about everyday actions that can squeeze more miles per gallon out of our cars and lower our utility bills, and get a glimpse of the cutting edge energy technologies of tomorrow.” The Expo will feature displays from an array of government agencies, non-profits, and companies that highlight energy-saving practices that save money, and offer a sneak peek at cutting edge energy technologies. The following is a partial list of participants in the Expo: Auto Alliance-EcoDriver, Chicago Public Radio-WBEZ, Climate Master, D&R International/Energy Star, Family Express, General Atomics, Home Depot, Indiana Builders Association, Indiana Office or Energy and Defense Development, IPower Energy Systems, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, NIPSCO, Northwest Indiana Community Action, Purdue Calumet Energy Efficiency and Reliability Center, Richard G. Lugar Center for Renewable Energy, South Shore Clean Cities, SunRise Solar, Trane, and the University of Notre Dame Energy Center. For more information, or to register for the Forum, please visit www.conf.purdue.edu/energy>. Both events are free and open to the public. Registration for the forum is required as seating is limited.
09.20.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky and the entire Indiana Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Bush today in support of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a major disaster declaration for the State of Indiana. If a major disaster declaration is granted, federal assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) would become available to Northwest Indiana. “Communities across Northwest Indiana are reeling from last weekend’s storm and the flooding that it brought,” said Visclosky. “Although the local and state response effort has been exceptional, we will need federal assistance to cleanup and recover from the disaster. I hope President Bush has the wisdom to grant a major disaster declaration and Northwest Indiana gets the help it needs as quickly as possible.” Specifically, the Governor requested Individual Assistance programs including the Individual and Household Program, Disaster Housing, Other Needs Assistance, Crisis Counseling, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, and US Small Business Administration Disaster Loans for Lake, LaPorte and Porter Counties. “I thank Governor Daniels for his efforts to support Northwest Indiana in these difficult times, and my Congressional colleagues for coming together across regional and party lines to support the request,” said Visclosky. The following is the Indiana Congressional Delegation’s letter to the President: September 20, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: We are writing to ask for your expedited approval of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a Major Disaster Area Declaration for the State of Indiana as a result of severe storms and flooding that began on September 12, 2008, and is still ongoing. The communities affected by the storms are in serious need of federal assistance, and we fully support the Governor’s request. These rainfall events caused widespread damage in Northwestern Indiana, most acutely in Lake, Porter, and LaPorte Counties. Many areas of these counties received over ten inches of rain during a three day period, with rivers and streams reaching new peak records, causing unprecedented damage in many towns. Thousands of homes were damaged and many residents remain displaced. Additionally, hurricane force winds from the storm system left hundreds of thousands across Southern Indiana without power and led to multiple fatalities. There was also substantial destruction of public facilities and infrastructure throughout the state, including the prolonged closure of stretches of two major interstate highways. Based on the extent of the damage, timely federal assistance is essential to ensure that local government agencies and families impacted by these events are able to recover in a suitable manner. We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor’s full request as quickly as possible. We appreciate your serious consideration of this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure that those affected by this disaster receive the appropriate assistance. Sincerely, Richard G. Lugar United States Senator Evan Bayh United States Senator Dan Burton Member of Congress Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress Steve Buyer Member of Congress Mark Souder Member of Congress Baron Hill Member of Congress Mike Pence Member of Congress Joe Donnelly Member of Congress Brad Ellsworth Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress
09.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in support of H.R. 6707, the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety (TRACS) Act. Visclosky is an original cosponsor of the bill, which would require the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to give greater consideration to the impact of railroad transactions on communities. “While the STB has made some decisions in this transaction that would be considered favorable to the public’s interest, including their decision last evening to deny CN’s petition to short-change the environmental review process, the recently released Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) gave me a new appreciation of the term ‘getting railroaded,’” testified Visclosky. The TRACS Act would apply to all transactions not approved by the STB prior to August 1, 2008, including the CN/EJ&E transaction, and would require the Board to place greater consideration on the impact of railroad transactions on affected communities. In doing so, the STB would have to give equal consideration to the public impact and the transportation benefits for the railroads. Presently, the STB considers transportation benefits first and public impact second. Specifically, the TRACS Act would require the STB to consider a transaction’s effect on local communities as far as public safety, grade crossing safety, hazardous materials transportation, emergency response systems, commuter rail, and Amtrak are concerned. The bill also would require the STB to reject a proposed acquisition if it finds that the transaction’s adverse impacts on affected communities outweigh the transportation benefits in the transaction. Additionally, it would allow the STB to impose conditions to mitigate the effects of the transaction on local communities. “Under the current regulations of the Surface Transportation Board (STB), the railroads have a very obvious advantage,” testified Visclosky. “The moves by these companies to improve their bottom line trump the hard work of policymakers at all levels of government when it comes to defining and addressing the nation’s transportation investment needs. The TRACS Act would level the playing field at the STB between the public interests and the business interests of the railroads. A reasoned balance can and should be struck.” The CN/EJ&E transaction would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana, cause the average train length to increase from 2,590 feet to 6,321 feet, and bring nearly ten times as many rail cars carrying hazardous materials to Northwest Indiana. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, it would bisect communities, impede the flow of automobile traffic, and create a considerable public safety concern. The proposed acquisition also would create new obstacles to economic development initiatives such as the expansion of the South Shore Line and the expansion of the Gary/Chicago International Airport. “I would like to thank Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission (NIRPC) Executive Director John Swanson and LaPorte County Councilman Mark Yagelski, Chairman of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) Board of Trustees for participating in today’s hearing, and my good friend Councilman Stan Dobosz of Griffith, Indiana for attending in person,” said Visclosky. “I look forward to continuing to work with my like-minded colleagues in Congress to enact the TRACS Act into law and give the STB the ability to make the right decision for the citizens of our nation.” The following is Congressman Visclosky’s complete testimony, as prepared for delivery: Testimony of Congressman Peter J. Visclosky Before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Hearing on H.R. 6707, the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety Act September 9, 2008 I would like to thank the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for holding today’s hearing. In particular I would like to thank Chairman James Oberstar and Ranking Member John Mica for their leadership in addressing our nation’s aging infrastructure system. Further, I would like to thank all the panelists for their participation in today’s hearing, in particular two residents of Indiana, Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission (NIRPC) Executive Director John Swanson and LaPorte County Councilman Mark Yagelski, Chairman of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) Board of Trustees. Also, it would be remiss of me if I did not acknowledge the presence in the audience of my good friend Councilman Stan Dobosz of Griffith, Indiana. I come before you today as a proud original cosponsor of H.R. 6707, the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety (TRACS) Act, and I am extremely appreciative of Chairman Oberstar for his sponsorship of this measure. This is legislation that is long overdue. Under the current regulations of the Surface Transportation Board (STB), the railroads have a very obvious advantage. The moves by these companies to improve their bottom line trump the hard work of policymakers at all levels of government when it comes to defining and addressing the nation’s transportation investment needs. The TRACS Act would level the playing field at the STB between the public interests and the business interests of the railroads. A reasoned balance can and should be struck. Specifically, the TRACS Act would require the STB, in a proceeding that involves the merger or control of at least one Class I rail carrier, to consider a transaction’s effect on local communities pertaining to public safety, grade crossing safety, hazardous materials transportation, emergency response systems, commuter rail, and Amtrak. The bill also would require the STB to reject a proposed acquisition if it finds that the transaction’s adverse impacts on affected communities outweigh the transportation benefits in the transaction. To illustrate the need for the TRACS Act, I would like to highlight the situation created in Northwest Indiana by the Canadian National Railway’s (CN) proposed acquisition of the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern (EJ&E). Having been born and raised in Lake County, Indiana, I, like all the residents of the County, am very experienced with freight rail traffic and the danger it poses to local residents. In 1977, my mother, Helen, was struck by a train and thankfully survived the experience. Waiting at crossing gates and finding alternative routes are a fact of life when you live in this heavily industrialized area that serves as the eastern gateway for freight into Chicago. Lately though, it has become apparent to the residents of the region that the waits are becoming longer, that the detours are becoming more congested, and that safety seems to be deteriorating. Federal Railroad Administration statistics show three people died and four were injured via crossing collisions in Lake County alone from January to May this year. Since, July 7 of this year, there have been three more serious car-train accidents in my Congressional District, resulting in four fatalities. And while these accidents have not all been on the EJ&E line, I believe the CN acquisition of this line would exacerbate an already strained and dangerous transportation system in Northwest Indiana. In Northwest Indiana, the CN/EJ&E transaction would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line and cause the average train length to go from 2,590 feet to 6,321 feet. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, it would bisect communities, impede the flow of automobile traffic, and create a considerable public safety concern. The proposed acquisition also would create new barriers and fail to remove other obstacles to local economic development initiatives, such as the expansion of the South Shore Line and the expansion of the Gary/Chicago International Airport. With regards to the expansions of the South Shore Line and the Gary/Chicago International Airport, both of these projects have the opportunity to be transformational projects for the economy of Northwest Indiana. However, the progress of both projects have been hampered by protracted negotiations with freight railroads. And while this summer, after seven years of negotiations, the airport finally announced that they had reached a preliminary deal with the railroads, I do not have to caution anyone that preliminary agreements with railroads often are not worth the paper they are written upon. Since this transaction was first proposed in the fall of 2007, I, Senator Lugar, Senator Bayh, Governor Daniels, many of our Congressional colleagues from Illinois, and thousands of residents along the EJ&E arc have repeatedly expressed our concerns with this acquisition and have requested that the STB conduct a review of it in a deliberate and prudent manner. And while the STB has made some decisions in this transaction that would be considered favorable to the public’s interest, including their decision last evening to deny CN’s petition to short-change the environmental review process, the recently released Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) gave me a new appreciation of the term “getting railroaded.” I would like to read from page 17 of the Mitigation section of the DEIS. “…railroads historically have not paid more than a small share (5 to 10 percent) of grade separations because grade separations primarily benefit the community and not the railroad.” I for one am disturbed by the contemptuous disregard for the public good in this statement and it serves to highlight the grossly inadequate process the law allows the STB to use in evaluating this transaction. This process inexplicably holds the taxpayer financially responsible for the vast majority of mitigation expenses, which in this transaction could be in the hundreds of millions of dollars. I look forward to continuing to work with my like-minded colleagues in Congress to enact the TRACS Act into law and give the STB the ability to make the right decision for the citizens of our nation. Thank you again for the opportunity to appear before you today on this very important matter.
09.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Senators Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh, Governor Mitch Daniels, and Congressman Pete Visclosky today filed a letter with the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to request a second public hearing in Northwest Indiana on the pending CN/EJ&E transaction and to extend the public comment period by at least 30 days. The only public hearing scheduled in Northwest Indiana will take place on Wednesday, September 10, from 4:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. at Indiana University Northwest, and the public comment period is scheduled to close on September 30. “It is important that Hoosiers in Northwest Indiana have the ability to have their thoughts and concerns heard by the STB," Lugar said. "I appreciated the STB supporting our request for an Environmental Impact Study and I am hopeful this request for increased transparency and communication will be accommodated.” “All Hoosiers deserve to have a voice in important decisions that will shape the future of their communities,” said Bayh. “A premature deadline for public comment risks shutting out the residents whose daily lives would be impacted by this deal. Regardless of the final outcome, this process must ensure that the views of Hoosiers from across the region are heard and respected. A second hearing should be held, and the public comment period extended.” “With the significant impact on Northwest Indiana and the great desire by individuals and local governments to participate in the STB process, I join our federal representatives in calling for an extension of the public comment period and at least one additional hearing in Indiana where our citizens and policymakers have ample opportunity to have their voices heard,” said Daniels. “The lives of people in Northwest Indiana will be significantly impacted if the CN/EJ&E transaction is approved,” said Visclosky. “We deserve every opportunity possible to express our concerns over the safety, environmental, and quality of life issues surrounding this deal. The public comments have been extensive so far, and the STB ought to provide further public comment opportunities so that everybody’s voice may be heard. I hope the STB honors these two simple requests, and I encourage the people of Northwest Indiana to attend this week’s public hearing in Gary, learn more about the transaction, and take advantage of the remaining public comment period.” In the letter, Lugar, Bayh, Daniels, and Visclosky note that the more than 250,000 residents of Dyer, Schererville, Griffith, Gary, Hammond, East Chicago, and Whiting, Northwest Indiana’s impacted communities, “will each experience significantly more train traffic, which will result in increased congestion and air-pollution from cars waiting at grade crossings, and an increase in the risk of vehicle-train and pedestrian-train collisions.” Because of the extensive impacts on Northwest Indiana and the unprecedented level of input from interested parties, the letter requests additional public hearings in Indiana and an extension of the public comment period by a minimum of 30 days. The following is the letter Lugar, Bayh, Daniels, and Visclosky sent to the STB: September 8, 2008 Ms. Anne K. Quinlan Acting Secretary Surface Transportation Board 395 E Street, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20423RE: Canadian National Railway Company and Grand Trunk Corporation Control—EJ&E West Company (STB Finance Docket No. 35087) Dear Ms. Quinlan: We are writing to request that the Section on Environmental Analysis (SEA) of the Surface Transportation Board (STB) schedule additional public hearings in Indiana to receive comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and extend the length of the public comment period for the proposed acquisition of the Elgin, Joliet, & Eastern Railroad (EJ&E) by Canadian National Railroad (CN). As noted by those involved in this proceeding, including staff of the SEA, the level of input from interested parties has been unprecedented. In the formation of the Draft EIS, the SEA received over 5,000 registered comments submitted by individuals, business owners, transportation organizations, and elected officials. Many of these comments expressed concerns over the effect the dramatic increase in train traffic proposed by CN will have on the quality of life in their communities. Further, the affected communities in Indiana and Illinois have formed a broad coalition to advocate their collective interests on the proposed acquisition, which leads us to believe that public interest will increase significantly during the comment period for the Draft EIS. However, despite this tremendous demonstration of concern by the public, the SEA adopted a hearing schedule that will not provide a sufficient opportunity for many of our constituents to participate. In Indiana, the towns of Dyer, Schererville, Griffith and the cities of Gary, Hammond, East Chicago, and Whiting will each experience significantly more train traffic, which will result in increased congestion and air-pollution from cars waiting at grade crossings, and an increase in the risk of vehicle-train and pedestrian-train collisions. Yet, the over 250,000 residents of these seven municipalities will only have a single opportunity to participate in a public meeting on the Draft EIS. We strongly urge the SEA to hold an additional hearing in Northwest Indiana to allow the residents of the region an ample opportunity to express their concerns with the impact of this transaction. In addition, the SEA provided only a 60-day public comment period for the Draft EIS. This comment period is merely 15 days more than the minimum number of days for public review set forth in the Council of Environmental Quality regulations. Given the breadth and magnitude of the multi-volume Draft EIS released by the SEA and the number of concerned citizens along the EJ&E arc, this 60-day period does not provide adequate time for interested parties, agencies, government entities, and members of the general public to analyze and comment on all aspects of the transaction. We strongly urge the SEA to extend the public comment period by a minimum of 30 days to give the impacted parties adequate time to evaluate the Draft EIS. We appreciate your serious consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Richard G. Lugar United States Senator Evan Bayh United States Senator Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr. Governor of Indiana Cc: Chairman Charles “Chip” Nottingham Cc: Vice Chairman Francis P. Mulvey Cc: Board Member W. Douglas Buttrey Cc: Ms. Victoria J. Rutson Cc: All Parties of Record
08.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced a $208,000 Department of Transportation grant for the Porter County Municipal Airport that will be used for taxiway rehabilitation. “Airports are great engines for economic activity,” said Visclosky. “The Porter County Municipal airport plays an important role in the Northwest Indiana economy and I am happy to help it leverage federal funding. This investment will help ensure that the airport’s facilities meet the demands of being a busy general aviation airport and that it continues to create economic opportunities for the people of Northwest Indiana.” The grant will provide funds to rehabilitate Taxiway H, which is reaching the end of its useful life. By rehabilitating the taxiway, the airport will ensure the continuity of its operations, which directly and indirectly generate an estimated $13.7 million in economic activity, according to an Indiana Department of Transportation study. “Northwest Indiana’s airports remain an important resource with tremendous economic potential for the region,” said Visclosky. “I will continue my efforts to secure federal assistance to maintain and improve the region’s airports so that their contributions to the local economy increase.”
08.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today filed a letter with the Surface Transportation Board (STB) in opposition to CN’s request that the STB issue a Final Decision on CN’s pending acquisition of the EJ&E before completing its ongoing Environmental Impact Study. Five Members of Congress from Illinois joined Visclosky in filing with the STB. “CN should stop wasting time with cheap tricks,” said Visclosky. “They have such a one track mind that now they want the STB to circumvent the law. That’s not how business is done in America and I will do everything I can to defend the rule of law.” On Friday, August 15, CN filed a request with the STB to approve its pending acquisition of the EJ&E without first completing the environmental review process, which is required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The request marks yet another request by CN for special treatment from the STB as the railroad pushes the STB to issue a Final Decision before CN’s purchase agreement expires on December 31, 2008. CN has repeatedly sought to limit the public’s input in spite of the fact that public interest in the transaction has been unprecedented. In his opposition letter, Visclosky urges the STB to “reject CN’s strong arm tactics and proceed with the NEPA review in a deliberate and prudent manner and ensure that public input is heard and fully considered.” The CN/EJ&E transaction would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana and cause the average train length to increase from 2,590 feet to 6,321 feet. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, it would bisect communities, impede the flow of automobile traffic, and create a considerable public safety concern. The proposed acquisition also would create new obstacles to economic development initiatives such as the expansion of the South Shore Line and the expansion of Gary/Chicago International Airport. “I remain strongly opposed to the CN/EJ&E transaction, which would deal a major blow to communities in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “CN should stop playing games with the STB and try working with the affected communities in good faith.” The following is the letter Visclosky filed with the STB: August 22, 2008 Ms. Anne K. Quinlan Acting Secretary Surface Transportation Board 395 E Street, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20423RE: STB Finance Docket No. 35087, Canadian National Railway Company and Grand Trunk Corporation – Control – EJ&E West Company Dear Ms. Quinlan: We write to express our opposition to the Canadian National Railway Company and Grand Trunk Corporation’s (CN) Petition to Modify the Procedural Schedule filed in the above referenced docket (Filing 223281). In their filing, CN requests that the Surface Transportation Board expedite the procedural schedule established by the Board (Decision No. 13) and issue a Final Decision in the transaction by October 15, 2008, regardless of the status of the ongoing Environmental Impact Study. Further, CN threatens legal action against the Board if it does not make a determination on the merits of CN’s filing by September 15, 2008. This filing is a blatant and shameless attempt by CN to avoid the environmental review process established by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which requires federal agencies to integrate environmental values into their decision making processes by considering the environmental impacts of their proposed actions and reasonable alternatives to those actions. Unfortunately, this filing is not CN’s first effort to circumvent the NEPA process in this transaction. On May 13, 2008, CN requested that the Board establish time limits for the environmental review process and issue a schedule that would result in a Final Decision in the transaction on December 1, 2008 (Filing 222352). Subsequently, on July 25, 2008, the Board issued Decision No. 13 that did not adopt CN’s proposed schedule, stating, “Nothing in NEPA, the case law, or the CEQ regulations require the Board to set a specific date with regard to service of the Final EIS...” CN’s repeated attempts over the last few months to limit the public’s input are unfathomable given the unprecedented public interest in this transaction. Between December 21, 2007, when the Section of Environmental Analysis (SEA) published its notice of intent announcing the start of the scoping process, and February 15, 2008, the SEA received over 3,600 registered comments submitted by individuals, business owners, transportation organizations, and elected officials. Many of these comments expressed concerns over the effect the dramatic increase in train traffic proposed by CN will have on the quality of life in their communities. Should the STB accept CN’s recent filing, and approve the transaction prior to the completion of the EIS, the steps remaining in the NEPA process would essentially be rendered meaningless. The SEA would merely be going through the motions completing a process with a predetermined outcome and CN would have no incentive to enter into substantive negotiations with the affected communities. We urge the Board to reject CN’s strong arm tactics and proceed with the NEPA review in a deliberate and prudent manner and ensure that public input is heard and fully considered. We appreciate your serious consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress Melissa L. Bean Member of Congress Donald A. Manzullo Member of Congress Judy Biggert Member of Congress Peter J. Roskam Member of Congress Bill Foster Member of Congress Cc: Chairman Charles “Chip” Nottingham Cc: Vice Chairman Francis P. Mulvey Cc: Board Member W. Douglas Buttrey Cc: Ms. Victoria J. Rutson
08.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced plans to move his Northwest Indiana office to 7895 Broadway, Suite A, in Merrillville. Visclosky’s Northwest Indiana office will be closed on Monday, August 25, and Tuesday, August 26, to accommodate the move, and will reopen at noon on Wednesday, August 27. The telephone, fax, and email addresses for the Northwest Indiana office will remain unchanged. “Providing the people of Northwest Indiana with the best services possible is my top priority,” said Visclosky. “I believe that by moving to a new, accessible office I will be able to provide improved services to more people.” The contact information for the new office is as follows: Northwest Indiana Office 7895 Broadway, Suite A Merrillville, IN 46410 (219) 795-1844 Fax (219) 795-1850 Call Toll Free (888) 423-PETE Visclosky’s Northwest Indiana office provides an array of services for the people of Indiana’s First Congressional District. He and his staff are available to help cut through red tape and resolve issues people may encounter with federal agencies. While he cannot require a federal agency to decide matters favorably, he can usually help ensure that requests receive serious consideration. Here are some of the areas in which he can help: Social Security & Medicare Benefits Veterans’ Benefits & Military Service Problems Federal Student Loans FHA and VA Home Loan Applications Small Business Loan Information Consumer Protection Referrals Disaster Assistance Mail Delivery and Service IRS Problems Federal Grants Immigration, Naturalization, and Citizenship Regulatory Compliance The Northwest Indiana office also offers American flags, nominates students for the U.S. service academies, and coordinates other constituent relations efforts such as visits to local organizations. Visclosky sent letters detailing the move to all Northwest Indiana residents with cases pending. He also sent an e-newsletter to all of his subscribers to inform them of the move. Those interested may subscribe to his e-newsletter at www.house.gov/visclosky. “I hope that this move does not inconvenience anybody, and I appreciate their patience and understanding during the transition to my new office,” said Visclosky.
08.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the $776,133 in fiscal year 2008 funds he secured for the Valparaiso University (VU) Department of Geography and Meteorology has been delivered to VU by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The funding will be used to purchase advanced meteorological equipment for teaching and research. “The recent weather events across Northwest Indiana provided a brutal reminder of how important it is to closely monitor the weather and to be prepared for sudden, severe weather systems,” said Visclosky. “The equipment purchased with this funding will provide vital, up-to-the-minute information on the weather that will help keep all of Northwest Indiana a step ahead of the next storm. It will also provide a valuable teaching tool that prepares the next generation of meteorologists and advances cutting-edge research in atmospheric science.” “This award will benefit both the University and the region as it will significantly strengthen and broaden our faculty and students' data analysis, laboratory, and field opportunities, as well as provide area secondary schools the opportunity to join with the Meteorology program in a unique educational outreach partnership,” said Dr. Bart J. Wolf, Chair of the VU Department of Geography and Meteorology. “We will be able to study the unique weather of Northwest Indiana in ways never before possible, while providing high school students some measure of the hands-on joy of discovery that is part of the scientific endeavor. We thank Congressmen Visclosky for his efforts in making this significant and beneficial award possible.” The funding will be used to purchase a dual-polarization detection Doppler weather radar system and a radiosonde balloon launching station, the only one in Indiana. The sophisticated technologies will offer critical weather data to the meteorological community and area forecasters by providing ground verification for radar signals and collection of additional weather data. They will also serve as a teaching and research aid for VU students and faculty and, through community outreach programs, help engage students of all ages in meteorology. “The Valparaiso University Meteorology Department not only performs advanced scientific research, but also serves the community by closely monitoring the weather and keeping residents informed of significant events,” said Visclosky. “With the purchase of this new equipment, it will become an even greater asset for Northwest Indiana.”
08.12.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has written a letter to President Bush in support of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a disaster declaration for Lake County by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The letter is being circulated to all members of the Indiana congressional delegation for signatures and will be sent to the President on Thursday, August 14. If a disaster declaration is granted by the SBA, Lake, Porter, Jasper, and Newton Counties would be eligible for disaster recovery assistance from the agency. “The severe weather event last week dealt a harmful blow to Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “By leveraging the available federal funds we will provide critical relief to residents, businesses, and municipalities devastated by the storm. I am glad that Governor Daniels is seeking disaster assistance from the federal government and I thank my Congressional colleagues from Indiana for joining me in support of the Governor’s efforts.” The SBA provides low-interest disaster loans to homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes, and non-profit organizations to repair or replace real estate, personal property, machinery and equipment, inventory, and business assets that have been damaged or destroyed in a declared disaster. Should the SBA declare Lake County a disaster area, affected homeowners, business owners, and non-profit organizations would become eligible for loans of up to $200,000 dollars for property damage and individuals would become eligible for loans of up to $40,000 to repair or replace damaged personal property. For businesses only, the SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. Economic Injury Disaster Loans assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage. “A disaster declaration from the SBA would help Northwest Indiana’s communities clean up and recover from the devastating storms,” said Visclosky. “I hope it comes quickly so that we can put this difficult time behind us.” The following is the letter to the SBA, which all Members of Congress from Indiana are expected to sign: August 14, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: We are writing in support of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a disaster declaration by the U.S. Small Business Administration for Lake County in Indiana as a result of severe weather that occurred on August 4, 2008. The communities affected by the weather are in serious need of federal assistance, and we fully support the Governor’s request. We believe that the severity, magnitude, and concentration of the storm damage warrants a timely disaster declaration, as communities across Northwest Indiana experienced substantial loss of their property, homes, and businesses. It is estimated that in the Town of Griffith alone, over 300 homes were damaged and as many as 20 homes were destroyed. Based on the extent of the damage, assistance is needed to ensure that families and businesses impacted by these events are able to recover in a suitable manner. We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor’s full request as quickly as possible. We appreciate your serious consideration of this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure that those affected receive the appropriate assistance. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress
08.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky yesterday sent a letter to Governor Mitch Daniels requesting that he initiate steps necessary to declare a State of Disaster Emergency for Lake and Porter Counties. Northwest Indiana was hit hard by a severe weather event on Monday, August 4, that caused considerable damage and declaring a State of Disaster Emergency would help the region in its recovery efforts. “The storms and tornado of earlier this week caused serious damage to communities across Northwest Indiana, hitting Griffith especially hard,” said Visclosky. “In these difficult economic times with tight local budgets, it is necessary to seek assistance from the Governor, who can also request federal help.” Should Governor Daniels declare a State of Disaster Emergency for Lake and Porter Counties he would be able to direct state resources to the region for cleanup and recovery efforts. The declaration would also allow him to request federal assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a request that only the governor can make. “I am confident everyone is doing everything they can to help the residents and homeowners of the area,” said Visclosky. “This declaration would give us more resources in the long term to deal with the effects of the storm.” The following is Visclosky’s letter to Daniels: August 7, 2008 The Honorable Mitch Daniels Governor of Indiana 200 West Washington Street, Room 206 Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 Dear Governor Daniels: I am writing to request that you initiate the steps necessary to declare a State of Disaster Emergency for Lake and Porter Counties, which will assist the communities in recovering from a severe weather event that struck Northwest Indiana on August 4, 2008. I believe that the severity, magnitude, and concentration of the damage is beyond the capabilities of local governments and supplementary state resources are warranted. These counties each experienced sustained severe winds, causing substantial damage to property, homes, and businesses. It is estimated that in the Town of Griffith alone, that over 300 homes were damaged and as many as 20 homes were destroyed. Based on the extent of the damage, timely state assistance is needed to ensure that local government agencies and families impacted by these events are able to recover in a suitable manner. I appreciate your serious consideration of this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress PJV:jd
08.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced a $2,730,499 Department of Education Grant to help the School City of Hammond, Merrillville School Corporation, and Tri-Creek School Corporation launch the Lakeshore High School Project. The funding will help create smaller learning communities that are intended to improve student achievement. “Providing our children with a good education is critical to preparing them for good jobs and solid careers,” said Visclosky. “By improving our students’ achievement we will improve their professional opportunities and our local economy. This investment in our schools is an investment in Northwest Indiana’s future that will reap economic benefits for the whole region.” The grant was issued under the U.S. Department of Education’s Smaller Learning Communities Grant Program, which is designed to encourage large high schools to undertake research-based strategies in developing and implementing smaller learning environments. The funding will be used to launch the Lakeshore High School Project, a system of freshman and career academies, as well as a summer academy for incoming 9th grade students, at Hammond, Lowell, Merrillville, and Morton High Schools. The academies will be headed by groups of teachers who will work together to monitor student progress and respond to students’ needs. Two mentors, one adult and one 12th grade student, will provide support to students identified as performing below grade-level in core academic classes. Career academy programs will focus on disciplines such as math and science, performing arts, technology, and health sciences. During their senior year, students will complete a capstone project, participate in resume and college application activities, and practice communication and interview skills. Each school also will implement Advancement Via Individual Determination, a program designed to prepare students, especially low-income students, for participation in dual credit courses at local community colleges and for postsecondary education and careers. “I am working hard to create a new economy for Northwest Indiana that offers the region’s residents new career opportunities,” said Visclosky. “By better preparing our students for careers in the new economy we will help them live better lives close to home and strengthen our local economy.”
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today joined Congressman James Oberstar (D-MN), Chairman on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and a bipartisan group of Members in introducing the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety (TRACS) Act. The bill would require the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to give greater consideration to the impacts of railroad transactions on local communities. “The TRACS Act would compel the STB to look out for the interests of the American people, not just the railroad corporations,” said Visclosky. “So far, the people of Northwest Indiana have been shortchanged by the STB in the CN/EJ&E transaction. Hopefully the House of Representatives will take action on this bill quickly and we can enact it into law so that the STB gives greater credence to the quality of life in Northwest Indiana as it considers the CN/EJ&E acquisition. ” The bill would require the STB to place greater consideration on the impact of railroad transactions on affected communities. In doing so, the STB would have to give equal consideration to the public impact and the transportation benefits for the railroads. Presently, the STB considers transportation benefits first and public impact second. Specifically, the TRACS Act would require the STB to consider a transaction’s effect on local communities as far as public safety, grade crossing safety, hazardous materials transportation, emergency response systems, commuter rail, and Amtrak are concerned. The bill also would require the STB to reject a proposed acquisition if it finds that the transaction’s adverse impacts on affected communities outweigh the transportation benefits in the transaction. Additionally, it would allow the STB to impose conditions to mitigate the effects of the transaction on local communities. The CN/EJ&E transaction would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana and cause the average train length to go from 2,590 feet to 6,321 feet. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, it would bisect communities, impede the flow of automobile traffic, and create a considerable public safety concern. The proposed acquisition also would create new obstacles to economic development initiatives such as the expansion of the South Shore Line and the expansion of Gary/Chicago International Airport. The STB failed to adequately consider these community impacts during its consideration of the CN/EJ&E deal, necessitating the TRACS Act. “In handling the CN/EJ&E case, the STB has been a rubber stamp for the railroads and has not adequately considered the transaction’s consequences for the surrounding communities,” said Visclosky. “The TRACS Act will make the STB protect the American people as it is supposed to by putting the concerns of communities on equal footing with the railroads. I am grateful to Chairman Oberstar and my like-minded colleagues for joining me in introducing this important legislation.”
07.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky voted today for H.R. 6604, the Commodity Market Transparency and Accountability Act, to clamp down on speculators who artificially manipulate the price of oil in the commodities market. House Republicans blocked the bill’s passage, marking the third time they have halted legislation to help Americans struggling with gas prices in as many weeks. “Thanks to the Bush-backed Enron loophole, energy speculators have been running rampant on the oil market, driving up the price per barrel and causing serious pain to hard-working families at the gas pump,” said Visclosky. “By clamping down on speculators we can help deflate the high price of oil, bring stability back to the market, and ease the pain at the pump.” Speculators buy and sell futures contracts that require the delivery of a commodity at a specified price on a specified future date. Right now, some oil speculators are betting that the price of oil will increase, artificially driving up demand for oil and the price with it. The Commodity Market Transparency and Accountability Act would help curb excessive speculation in the energy markets by closing the Enron loophole, bringing much-needed transparency to commodities and futures markets, and strengthening enforcement to prevent market manipulation and to prosecute fraud. “There is no silver bullet for high gas prices, but clamping down on speculators will certainly help,” said Visclosky. “In order to fully combat rising fuel costs, I believe we must support research into renewable energy like wind and solar, raise fuel standards for cars and trucks to decrease our demand for gasoline, and explore opportunities for increased domestic production of oil. In recent weeks I have supported measures to increase domestic oil production and to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. I will continue to support like-minded legislation that helps the people of Northwest Indiana cope with high gas prices.”
07.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky voted today for H.R. 6578, the Consumer Energy Supply Act, to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and quickly lower the price of gas. House Republicans blocked the bill’s passage, preventing it from getting the two-thirds majority required for passage under suspension of the rules. “The effects of record high gas prices are being felt by every family and across the economy,” said Visclosky. “This energy and economic crisis demands swift action and releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve will help ease the pain at the pump. Unfortunately, some in Congress refuse to come to the aid of the American people.” The Consumer Energy Supply Act would temporarily release nearly 10 percent of the oil from the SPR and replace it later with heavier, cheaper crude oil. The SPR has been tapped three times before, and each time the impact on prices has been dramatic and immediate: 33 percent in 1991, 19 percent in 2000, and 9 percent in 2005. It is estimated that releasing small amounts of oil from the SPR now will drive down oil and gas prices by $6 per barrel of oil and 25 cents per gallon of gas. The SPR is currently more than 97 percent full, has enough oil to meet our national security needs, and the bill would require that it be kept 90 percent full. The Consumer Energy Supply Act would help bring gas prices down, strengthen our national security, and benefit the American taxpayer. “There is no silver bullet for high gas prices, but releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve will certainly have a helpful impact,” said Visclosky. “In order to fully combat rising fuel costs, I believe we must support research into renewable energy like wind and solar, raise fuel standards for cars and trucks to decrease our demand for gasoline, and explore opportunities for increased domestic production of oil. We should also take action to clamp down on speculators who artificially manipulate the price of oil in the international market.”
07.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced $1,716,913 in grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for East Chicago for community development and affordable housing. “In these difficult economic times it is important to develop strong communities with affordable housing opportunities,” said Visclosky. “These HUD funds will help East Chicago build a vibrant community with adequate housing opportunities at all ends of the economic spectrum. The end result will be a stronger economy for East Chicago and all of Northwest Indiana.” $1,346,140 was awarded under the Community Development Block Grant program to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and by expanding economic opportunities. The program focuses on low- and moderate-income persons. $370,773 was awarded from the HOME program, which helps expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low-income families by funding housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. “Having a decent place to live is central to a person’s well-being and quality of life,” said Visclosky. “This funding will directly help many people in East Chicago and have a positive economic effect on the whole community.”
07.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the $1,968,000 in fiscal year 2008 funds that he secured for Munster’s waste to energy project has been delivered to the city by the Department of Energy. The funding will help construct and equip a methane gas cogeneration plant at Centennial Park. “Innovative energy sources like waste to energy cogeneration are an important piece of our energy mix and part of the solution to our energy crisis,” said Visclosky. “The methane gas cogeneration facility that will be built at Centennial Park in Munster is an important local endeavor that will help our country better utilize its energy resources and proceed on the path toward energy independence. The continued development and deployment of technologies like waste to energy, wind, and solar are critical to our energy future.” The Department of Energy funding that Visclosky delivered to Munster will be used to help install micro-turbines that produce electricity from methane gas being produced by the capped landfill beneath Centennial Park. Instead of wasting the power resource, the micro-turbines burn the gas in an energy-producing flare. A study of the site found that there is sufficient gas to meet the electricity needs of the entire park and sell additional electricity to the local power grid. The cogeneration project will create a local energy source, reduce harmful emissions, and make use of waste materials. On July 1, 2008, Visclosky announced that he secured an additional $1 million in fiscal year 2009 funds for the project. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, methane gas generated at the former landfill site in Munster will not be wasted, but will be used to generate electricity that will power facilities at the new Centennial Park and elsewhere in town,” said Dave Shafer, Clerk Treasurer for the Town of Munster. “The Town of Munster looks forward to showcasing our ‘green’ project.” “It’s very important now that we develop alternative methods of generating energy,” said Helen Brown, President of the Munster Town Council. “We’re delighted that Congressman Visclosky shares our excitement about the methane project at Centennial Park, especially since he can translate that into real dollars that turn the project into a reality.” “By building this local, green energy plant that will contribute to our power grid we are reducing our dependence on foreign energy, protecting our environment, and, best of all, investing in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “I hope this project sets a trend for other innovative energy projects across the region.”
07.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Ivy Tech Community College will receive a $1 million grant from the Department of Labor’s Employment Training Administration under the High Growth Job Training Initiative. The funds will be used to prepare workers in Northwest Indiana for jobs in the energy industry. “I believe that we can invest and invent our way out of the energy crisis and create new economic opportunities at the same time,” said Visclosky. “This grant for Ivy Tech will help Northwest Indiana by training our workers for jobs in the high-growth energy industry. With new, skilled energy workers we will be better equipped to confront our energy woes and create a new economy in Northwest Indiana with new, good-paying jobs.” The High Growth Job Training Initiative is intended to spur workforce development in the energy industry and train new construction and building trade workers to maintain and expand the industry’s infrastructure. Ivy Tech will use the funding to develop distance learning energy courses, provide training for existing energy industry workers through its Management Supervisor Institute certification programs, and design and deliver training for Indiana’s growing biofuels industry. Ivy Tech’s efforts will contribute to solving the energy crisis and lead to new jobs for new skilled workers in Northwest Indiana. “By providing our workers with the tools they need for jobs in the cutting-edge energy industry, we are taking an important step toward ensuring that Northwest Indiana has a strong economy for years to come,” said Visclosky.
07.17.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky voted today in support of H.R. 6515, the Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands (DRILL) Act, to responsibly use America’s oil and natural gas resources. House Republicans blocked the bill to increase America’s oil supply, preventing it from reaching the two-thirds majority required for passage under suspension of the rules in a vote of 244 to 173. “High gas prices are taking a terrible toll on Northwest Indiana’s families and we need an energy strategy that is in their interest, not big oil’s,” said Visclosky. “The DRILL Act is part of a sensible, comprehensive energy plan to lower gas prices, help America become more energy independent, promote renewable, clean American fuels, make our cars and trucks more fuel efficient, and create millions of high-skilled green jobs. This bill would help the price at the pump by responsibly utilizing our domestic oil and gas reserves.” The DRILL Act promotes the responsible domestic production of oil and natural gas, with a focus on tapping the 20 million acre National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A), which could produce 10.6 billion barrels of oil and has existing pipelines reaching to within five miles of it. It includes “use it or lose it” language to require oil producers to drill on the land where they hold leases before asking the federal government for leases on new land. It also bans the export of Alaskan oil and calls on the President to facilitate the completion of an oil pipeline from NPR-A to the continental U.S. to make sure American oil is used right here at home. The Drill Act would provide more oil, and do so soon. To date, this Congress has enacted into law the following family-friendly energy policies: The first new vehicular fuel efficiency standards in 32 years, which can save up to $1,000 in gas per car per year; a historic commitment to American-grown biofuels, which are keeping gas prices 15% lower now than they would otherwise be; action to impact record gas prices by suspending oil purchasing for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve; and economic recovery rebate checks to help hard-working Americans struggling with rising gas prices and other costs. Congressman Visclosky supported all of those energy crisis solutions plus additional measures that passed the House of Representatives to promote renewable energy, crack down on oil cartels and speculators, and reduce public transit fares. Earlier this week, Congressman Visclosky took another major step to reduce the price of gas, calling on President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Releasing oil from the Reserve would immediately drive down the price of oil by an estimated $6 per barrel and the price of gas by an estimated 25 cents per gallon. When oil was released from the Reserve in 2000, the price of a barrel dropped 20 percent in one week. “There is no silver bullet for high gas prices, but these responsible new energy strategies all help ease the pain at the pump,” said Visclosky. “I will continue to pursue dependable solutions like more renewables, increased fuel economy standards, and a clamp down on oil speculators so that we can set America back on the right course.”
07.14.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky issued the following statement today, calling on President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: “Honest, hardworking people in Northwest Indiana and across America are struggling to make ends meet as skyrocketing oil and gas prices absorb too much of their income. The effects of record high gas prices are being felt throughout the economy and prompt, positive action is required to mitigate the consequences of this ballooning crisis. Therefore, I call on President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which will have an immediate effect on the price of gas. “The oil stored in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was purchased with taxpayers’ dollars for use in the event of an emergency. It is clear that high gas prices are causing an economic emergency that warrants releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Therefore, the President should immediately release oil to provide much-needed relief to the American people. After all, we the people bought that oil and we own it. “Releasing small amounts of oil from the Reserve will immediately drive down oil and gas prices by an estimated $6 per barrel of oil and 25 cents per gallon of gas. The 706 million barrel reserve, which is 97 percent full, far exceeds our commitment to maintain at least 90 days of oil stocks in reserve. We have sufficient coffers to release the half-million barrels a day required to drive down prices for nearly four years, which would add more supplies to the market and help take speculators out of the game. “There is no silver bullet for high gas prices, but releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve will certainly have an immediate, helpful impact. In order to fully combat rising fuel costs, I believe we must support research into renewable energy like wind and solar, raise fuel standards for cars and trucks to decrease our demand for gasoline, and explore opportunities for increased domestic production of oil. We should also take action to clamp down on speculators who artificially manipulate the price of oil in the international market. “With smart investments and a little ingenuity, we can solve high gas prices while we create new economic opportunities for Northwest Indiana and the country.”
07.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1423, Congressman Pete Visclosky’s bill to enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and raise the quality of life in Northwest Indiana. Visclosky’s bill will help the Lakeshore protect more of its unique dunes ecosystem so that a greater number of people can enjoy the dunes and will also allow the Lakeshore to enter into a partnership with Porter County to improve the services offered at the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center. The House approved the bill by a vote of 376 to 11. “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a great natural treasure,” said Visclosky. “The Lakeshore is relatively new as a park, but it continues to mature. I am happy that the House approved my bill to help preserve, protect, and restore the Lakeshore and surrounding environment for everybody’s benefit. Continuing efforts to protect the unique dunes ecosystem will make Northwest Indiana a better place to live for both current and future generations.” H.R. 1423 permits, but does not require, the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations of lands located outside the present boundaries of the Lakeshore if they are contiguous with the park or separated by only a right-of-way. At present, the Secretary of the Interior cannot accept such donations and Visclosky’s bill makes a minor technical correction to allow at-will donations. The change has no fiscal impact and will allow the natural treasure to expand by the generosity of those wishing to enhance the Lakeshore. The provision was borrowed from Visclosky’s other Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore enhancement bill, H.R. 573. H.R. 1423 also grants the Secretary of the Interior the authority to enter into a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint partnership with Porter County to improve services at the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center. The partnership will allow the National Park Service and the Porter County Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Commission to develop a plan to maximize the efficiency of the Visitor Center and enhance the visitor experience. The bill also authorizes $1.5 million to develop exhibits for the Visitor Center. “This legislation helps protect and enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore,” said Tom Anderson, Executive Director of the Save the Dunes Council. “Save the Dunes Council is very pleased that the Dorothy Buell provision is included in this legislation since she was our founder. Once again we thank Congressman Visclosky for his leadership and tireless effort on behalf of the residents of Northwest Indiana.” “I take great pleasure in helping the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore mature so that more people can access it and enjoy the beauty of Lake Michigan and the dunes,” said Visclosky. “Northwest Indiana’s dunes are a natural wonder that enhance the quality of life for all residents in Northwest Indiana, especially since everybody has access to them. I am grateful to those in Northwest Indiana and in Congress who worked with me to pass this important legislation and hope it gets swift approval by the Senate so that the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore can become an even better place.” The following is Visclosky’s speech in support of the bill, as prepared for delivery: Madam Speaker: I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1423, the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center Lease Act, as amended. I am proud to sponsor this legislation and I thank Mr. Donnelly for joining me as a cosponsor. I also would like to thank Chairman Rahall, Ranking Member Don Young, Subcommittee Chairman Grijalva, Subcommittee Ranking Member Bishop, and all the members of the Natural Resources Committee for their consideration and support of this measure. This measure will grant the Secretary of the Interior the authority to enter into a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint partnership with Porter County. This partnership will allow the National Park Service and the Porter County Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Commission (PCCRVC) to develop a plan to maximize the efficiency of the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center at the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and enhance the visitor experience. The measure also will provide funding to develop exhibits for the Visitor Center. Additionally, H.R. 1423 will help us enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore in the most affordable fashion possible. It will permit, but not require, the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations of lands located outside the present boundaries of the Lakeshore if they are contiguous with the park or separated by only a right-of-way. At present, the Secretary of the Interior cannot accept such donations. This provision makes a minor technical correction that has no fiscal impact and will allow this natural treasure to expand by the generosity of those wishing to enhance the Lakeshore. It is my sincere hope that this legislation will continue our efforts to protect and enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and to ensure that all Americans can benefit from the park. The Lakeshore is an incredible national treasure made up of 15,000 pristine acres along the south shore of Lake Michigan in the midst of an urban environment. With its vast array of flora and fauna in Northwest Indiana—a short distance from downtown Chicago—the Lakeshore receives over 3 million visitors each year. The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, which was established by Congress in 1966, is relatively new, but as it continues to mature, the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center is vital in helping provide each Lakeshore visitor a complete and rewarding experience. The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore owes a great deal of gratitude to Dorothy Buell, who was instrumental in its establishment and development. Buell fell in love with the dunes during childhood summers at her family’s cottage in what is now Ogden Dunes and devoted much of her life to saving them. In 1952, she founded the Save the Dunes Council to obtain dunes land and give it to the Indiana Dunes State Park so that the unique habitat could be preserved and enjoyed by the general public. In 1992, Buell’s extraordinary contributions to the dunes were recognized when President George H.W. Bush signed the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Access and Enhancement Act into law, thereby naming the park’s visitor center for her and commemorating her “vision, dedication, and work… in saving the Indiana Dunes.” The Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center is an excellent facility for providing environmental education programs and recreational activities. The new Visitor Center was built by the PCCRVC and opened in November, 2006. Visitors can enjoy displays and exhibits regarding the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, Indiana Dunes State Park, and Porter County. I am very proud of the continued investment in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore by the National Park Service staff, our local communities, and Lakeshore volunteers in Indiana’s First Congressional District. I especially want to thank the Save the Dunes Council, Tom Anderson, Tom Serynek, Deborah Chubb, John Goffiney, John Crayton, Herb and Charlotte Read, Cynthia Fredrick, Nicole Messacar, Monica Johnston, Terrence McCloskey, Daniel Dresner, Robert Selund, Jr., Sandy O’Brien, Joan Solbeck, Erin Crofton, Christine Livingston, Carol Cook, Jennifer Nebe, Matt Vesh, Anita Seidelman, Eric Griffin, Colin Highlands, Caleb Jielczyk, and Lee Botts for their support and commitment to the Lakeshore. They seek to preserve, protect, and restore the Lakeshore and surrounding resources for an enhanced quality of life. Madam Speaker, we should not delay the Lakeshore’s ability to mature, thus allowing more people to appreciate the natural beauty of Northwest Indiana. I again urge my colleagues to support this measure, and I yield back my time.
07.02.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $27.15 million for Northwest Indiana’s critical water infrastructure. $14 million will go to the Little Calumet River for flood protection; $950,000 will go to the Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor for dredging; $11.4 million will go to the Indiana Harbor for the Confined Disposal Facility; and $800,000 will go to the Grand Calumet River for habitat restoration. The funding is included in Visclosky’s Fiscal Year 2009 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on June 25. The bill must be approved by both the House and Senate before it can be signed into law by the President. “Maintaining and improving our water infrastructures is critical to improving our quality of life, ensuring our economic vitality, and providing for our general wellbeing,” said Visclosky. “These investments in Northwest Indiana’s infrastructure will increase public safety through improved flood protection, and clean the bodies of water that support the area’s economy. They will help keep and attract people to live, work, and run businesses in Northwest Indiana.”$14 Million for Little Calumet River The Little Calumet River flood control project will receive $14 million for the construction of levees between Northcote Avenue and the State Line. Once complete, the project will include 22 miles of levees and flood walls that protect the citizens and businesses of Garry, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, and Munster. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that flooding on the Little Calumet River causes $11 million in damages annually and the completion of the flood control project will protect homes and businesses to minimize the costs associated with flooding. Last year Visclosky secured $14.76 million for the project. “The Little Calumet River flood control project will provide a tremendous benefit to many homes and businesses located nearby,” said Visclosky. “The finished project will increase safety, protect people’s property, and reduce the high costs of flood insurance. It cannot be completed soon enough.” “I believe that the winners of this appropriation are the homeowners in Hammond, Highland, and Munster, because they will no longer have to pay flood insurance,” said Frank J. Mrvan, North Township Trustee. “In these hard economic times, I believe that that is a win for the homeowner. Secondly, this project, that you can see is being completed by its progress, also protects the assets of Wicker Park that are utilized by the residents of North Township every day. This investment will also spur economic development where businesses will want to go in a high traffic area that no longer is in flood zones. Once completed, this $14 million investment will bring in millions and millions of dollars of economic development and relief to the homeowners. It’s a great thing.” “I just want to thank Congressman Visclosky for all his help on this project,” said Bernie Zemen, President of the Highland Town Council. “It’s going to give people in Highland the satisfaction of knowing that the higher levees reduce the risk of flooding and remove residents from the flood plain so that they won’t have to pay flood insurance like they did before.” “We’re very appreciative that Congressman Visclosky has obtained $14 million to help make the Hammond and Munster pieces of the Little Cal project a reality,” said Helen Brown, President of the Munster Town Council. “The completion of this project would enable many people to leave the flood plain, which will save our residents significant money and reduce the possibility of flooding.”$950,000 for Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor The $950,000 for the Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor will be used to dredge the approach channel, inner harbor, and river. At present, natural sediment is clogging the waterway, impeding the flow of boat traffic. The dredged channel will allow recreational boaters to smoothly, safely navigate the waterway and draw more people to the soon-to-be-opened Portage Lakefront Park, a Marquette Plan project. Last year Visclosky secure $60,000 for the project “Improving navigation along Burns Waterway so that recreational boaters can access the small boat harbor will draw people to the Portage lakeshore,” said Visclosky. “It will help more people access and enjoy Lake Michigan and will improve the quality of life for people across Northwest Indiana.” “Certainly, improving recreation and quality of life issues are important to Portage residents, as well as opportunities for economic development,” said Olga Velazquez, Mayor of Portage. “This funding will help to achieve all of these goals. We appreciate all that Congressman Visclosky does to advocate for Northwest Indiana residents.”$11.4 Million for Indiana Harbor The $11.4 million for Indiana Harbor will be used for environmental cleanup efforts, with $8.4 million going toward the Confined Disposal Facility (CDF) and $3 million going toward operations and management. The funding for the CDF will help continue the ambient air monitoring and the operation of the groundwater treatment plant, complete construction of the groundwater gradient control system, and begin construction of the permanent waste water treatment plant. Last year Visclosky secured $18.48 million for the project. “This award will help the people of East Chicago leverage federal funding to cleanup the Indiana Harbor,” said Visclosky. “It will help expedite the project to ensure the health and safety of people across Northwest Indiana.”$800,000 for Grand Calumet River The $800,000 for the Grand Calumet River will go toward an environmental dredging effort. The funding will be used to complete the feasibility study for the project, which is intended to improve water quality and enhance the aquatic and terrestrial habitats along the river. Last year Visclosky secured $895,000 for the project. “I am happy to support this effort to improve the water quality and habitats of the Grand Calumet River,” said Visclosky. “As we have seen from similar projects, such as Wolf Lake, cleaning our waterways and restoring their habitats can create new opportunities for our communities and improve our quality of life.”
07.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $8 million for energy technology research and development and deployment in Northwest Indiana. Purdue University Calumet will receive $7 million for research and development projects and Munster will receive $1 million to deploy its waste-to-energy cogeneration project. The funding is included in Visclosky’s Fiscal Year 2009 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on June 25. The bill must be approved by both the House and Senate before it can be signed into law by the President. “The research and development and deployment of new energy technologies is the key to solving our current energy woes,” said Visclosky. “I believe that America can invest and invent its way out of the energy crisis and these particular investments help make sure that Northwest Indiana plays an important role in inventing new energy solutions. It is a great stride toward a stronger economy, a cleaner environment, and a more secure nation.”$7 Million for Research and Development Projects at Purdue University Calumet Purdue University Calumet’s $7 million includes $5 million for the Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization, $1 million for the Inland Water Institute, and $1 million for hydrogen technologies research. The three efforts are engaged in cutting-edge research utilizing high technology to develop solutions to important energy-related problems. “Purdue University Calumet is leading the way to important energy technologies,” said Visclosky. “This funding for three of the University’s research and development programs will help us conquer the energy crisis and lead to more new economy jobs in Northwest Indiana.” The Center for Computational Simulation and Visualization utilizes advanced technology applications for research and educational purposes. The $5 million will help it expand its state-of-the-art tools and equipment to perform more-advanced research and become a superior teaching aide. The Inland Water Institute will use the $1 million to extend its research into developing a sensing strategy in order to protect the security of key water infrastructure. The Institute is developing a detection system that would utilize a sensor network, data communication, data mining, and data fusion to create a high-accuracy intrusion, damage, and toxic contamination warning system that keeps infrastructure safe. Last year Visclosky secured $492,000 for the Institute. The hydrogen technologies research program will use its $1 million to continue research into utilizing hydrogen as a commercial fuel source. The funding will help complete basic research and technology demonstration that will lead to commercialization so that clean-burning hydrogen can become a viable fuel source. Last year Visclosky secured $984,000 for the Program. “We are very appreciative of Congressman Visclosky’s support for innovative technologies that can meet the long term needs of our region, our state and the nation,” said Howard Cohen, Chancellor of Purdue University Calumet. “At Purdue Calumet, through the Water Institute and the Energy Center we are researching the technologies that can both help assure the quality and reliability of our natural resources and, at the same time, protect and preserve our environment. Our planned Master’s Degree in Modeling and Simulation will help Northwest Indiana develop and retain the talented, highly-educated, workforce that can continue this creative work for generations to come. Congressman Visclosky’s commitment to our efforts helps keep Purdue and Purdue Calumet on the forefront of applied research and innovation.”$1 Million for Deployment of Munster Waste to Energy Cogeneration Project The $1 million for Munster will be used to construct and equip a methane gas cogeneration plant. The cogeneration plant will convert methane gas from waste and refuse into electricity for the local power grid, providing an environmentally-friendly source of local energy. Last year Visclosky secured $1.97 million for the Munster cogeneration project. “The Munster cogeneration plant is a step in the right direction for Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “By building a local, green energy source that contributes to our power grid we are reducing our dependence on foreign energy, protecting our environment, and, best of all, investing in Northwest Indiana.” “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, methane gas generated at the former landfill site in Munster will not be wasted, but will be used to generate electricity that will power facilities at the new Centennial Park and elsewhere in town,” said Dave Shafer, Clerk Treasurer for the Town of Munster. “The Town of Munster looks forward to showcasing our ‘green’ project.” “It’s very important now that we develop alternative methods of generating energy,” said Helen Brown, President of the Munster Town Council. “We’re delighted that Congressman Visclosky shares our excitement about the methane project at Centennial Park, especially since he can translate that into real dollars that turn the project into a reality.”
06.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $3.6 million to enhance Northwest Indiana’s Lake Michigan shoreline. $2 million will be used for the Marquette Plan and $1.6 million will be used to prevent shoreline erosion in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. The funding is included in Visclosky’s Fiscal Year 2009 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on June 25. The bill must be approved by both the House and Senate before it can be signed into law by the President. “Lake Michigan is one of the greatest natural resources in the world and I want everybody in Northwest Indiana to be able to enjoy it,” said Visclosky. “The lakeshore is a tremendous asset for the region and I believe that by recapturing it, restoring it, and protecting it for public use we can improve the quality of life for current and future generations of residents and prompt new economic opportunities in the area.” The Marquette Plan is Visclosky’s vision to restore the south shore of Lake Michigan in order to improve the quality of life in Northwest Indiana and attract new jobs and businesses to the region by improving public access to the lakefront. Visclosky created the plan in 1985 to recapture at least 75 percent of the lakeshore for public use, set back development beyond 1,000 feet from water’s edge, and create a continuous trail network through Northwest Indiana’s lakefront cities. In 2005, the mayors of Whiting, Hammond, East Chicago, Gary, and Portage endorsed the Marquette Plan and agreed to pursue its goals. The $2 million that Visclosky secured for fiscal year 2009 will be used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to begin implementing Marquette Plan projects along the Lake Michigan shoreline. Last year Visclosky secured $394,000 for the Marquette Plan. “Any funding that supports the Marquette Plan is obviously good news,” said Joe Stahura, Mayor of the City of Whiting. “The plan will not only help renovate the lakeshore, but could act as a huge economic development engine for the region. Whiting is undertaking a Marquette Plan project right now that we anticipate beginning this fall and continuing through 2009. I commend the Congressman on his efforts to secure the funds because all of Northwest Indiana will benefit from all Marquette Plan projects.” “This is great news for Northwest Indiana,” said Tim Sanders, Executive Director of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority. “From Whiting to Portage, the Marquette Plan is a regional plan that is critical to improving the quality of life and for economic development in Northwest Indiana. The RDA looks forward to continuing our work with Congressman Visclosky as we work together to move the region forward.” The $1.6 million for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore (IDNL) will be used to prevent shoreline erosion and maintain the beaches and dunes within the park. Harbor structures outside of the IDNL interrupt the natural movement of sand within the park and accelerate the erosion of beaches and dunes. The funding will be used to combat the accelerated erosion by strategically placing additional sand on the beaches and dunes. Last year Visclosky secured $984,000 to prevent shoreline erosion in the IDNL. “Save the Dunes Council is very thankful to Congressman Visclosky for his continued leadership to protect and restore the Indiana Dunes,” said Tom Anderson, Executive Director of Save the Dunes Council. “This appropriation to continue the beach nourishment at Mt. Baldy will help protect the Indiana shoreline for public use and enjoyment for current and future generations.” “These investments in Northwest Indiana’s Lake Michigan shoreline will help everybody enjoy the beauty of Lake Michigan and the many opportunities that it offers,” said Visclosky. “By improving our quality of life, they will also help Northwest Indiana retain and attract economic activity.”
06.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $400,000 for Northwest Indiana’s community health centers to purchase important equipment. Northwest Indiana’s five community health centers provide critical medical care to the under- and uninsured who would otherwise struggle to find quality healthcare. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. The House Appropriations Committee is expected to approve the bill today and it must be approved by both the House and Senate before it can be signed into law by the President. “I believe that community healthcare centers are a key component of our healthcare system, especially when the majority of people who receive care at them are on Medicaid, Medicare, or have no health insurance at all,” said Visclosky. “I believe a healthcare system that provides high-quality care at an affordable price is critical to the well being of our country. In a country as good and as strong as the United States, no one should lie awake at night worrying whether or not someone in their family is going to get sick.” Northwest Indiana’s five community health centers are East Chicago Community Health Center, Gary Community Health Center, NorthShore Community Health Center – Lake Station, NorthShore Community Health Center – Portage, and Hilltop Community Health Center in Valparaiso. Community health centers serve the under- and uninsured through efforts to overcome the many impediments people face while trying to access healthcare. The centers operate extended hours to accommodate patients’ work schedules and charge a sliding fee scale so that patients can afford to get the care they need. The funding will be used to jointly purchase equipment in order to defray costs and more effectively meet the healthcare needs of Northwest Indiana. “We were all thinking that we would use the funding for electronic health records, which will help us do a better job of keeping track of the quality of care for our patients and their safety,” said Janice Wilson, CEO of NorthShore Health Centers. “That will help us serve our patients in a better capacity. It is one other way that the government is working toward making sure that everybody gets quality, safe healthcare.” “Northwest Indiana is a healthier, better place because of the care that is provided by our community health centers,” said Visclosky.
06.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security today approved H.R. 5935, Congressman Pete Visclosky’s American Steel First Act. The Committee’s approval is a major step toward considering the bill in the whole House. “The Committee on Homeland Security’s decision to approve the American Steel First Act demonstrates its commitment to keeping Americans safe and secure,” said Visclosky. “My bill would ensure that our important infrastructure, like the border fence and other Department of Homeland Security projects, is made with American steel, rather than substandard imported steel from places like China. It will also lead to good-paying steelworker jobs and help the economy in Northwest Indiana.” The American Steel First Act would require that all domestic military and civilian construction projects executed by the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Transportation use only American-made steel. It is intended to ensure the safety of critical infrastructure while also providing a boost to the domestic steel industry that would lead to new steelworker jobs. Visclosky wrote the bill after learning about incidents of substandard Chinese steel being used in government-funded infrastructure projects like the border fence when he chaired a Congressional Steel Caucus hearing on the issue on April 30. The Committee on Homeland Security approved the bill after considering how it applies to the Department of Homeland Security. Visclosky submitted written testimony to the Committee in support of the bill, which is attached. The House Committees on Armed Services and Transportation and Infrastructure may now consider the bill as it applies to the Departments of Defense and Transportation, respectively, or the Speaker of the House could choose to bring it directly to the House floor for debate and final passage. “I thank my colleagues on the Homeland Security Committee for approving the American Steel First Act and hope that today’s approval prompts swift passage of the bill by the House,” said Visclosky. “China cheats on trade and my bill will help remedy our unfair trade situation by making our government use only American-made steel in important construction projects. It will help ensure public safety and create steelworker jobs” WRITTEN STATEMENT The Honorable Peter J. Visclosky Chairman, Congressional Steel Caucus House Homeland Security Committee Markup of H.R. 5935, the American Steel First Act June 26, 2008 I would like to thank Chairman Thompson and Ranking Member King for their timely consideration of H.R. 5935, the American Steel First Act, and I would like to express my appreciation for the opportunity to submit a written statement in support of this legislation that I have introduced. The American Steel First Act aims to ensure that federal construction projects use steel that meets the highest safety and quality standards and create American steelworker jobs. Specifically, the measure requires the Departments of Homeland Security, Transportation, and Defense to use only American-made steel for their construction projects. The measure would apply to domestic military and civilian construction projects, such as the border fence. As Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I have been closely monitoring the incidents of sub-standard steel imports since it was reported last year that faulty pipe was imported into the Houston port to be used for construction purposes. I later learned that Chinese pipe had been used in the border fence. On April 30, 2008, I held a Steel Caucus hearing to investigate the matter and look into legislative solutions. At the hearing, we heard from representatives of the steel industry. They testified that Chinese steel often does not meet U.S. safety standards, that there is no way to ensure that Chinese steel meets international safety standards, and that American steelworkers are losing their jobs because they cannot compete with China’s unfair trade practices.. We also heard from USCBP’s Assistant Commission for the Office of International Trade, who explained that there is no federal government process to ensure that steel imports are safe. Steel is used in all aspects of our infrastructure, and we cannot wait for a disaster to ensure that the steel we import is safe. Due to these incidents of sub-standard imports and their role in increasing job losses, I introduced the American Steel First Act. It will ensure that our national infrastructure is safe and that the steel industry and its workers are secure in their jobs. I once again thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for their consideration of this important measure, and respectfully urge all the Members of the Committee to favorably report the measure.
06.25.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $2,825,000 for educational programs in Northwest Indiana. $750,000 will go to the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana to expand its programming and upgrade technology; $250,000 will go to Valparaiso University for meteorological equipment; $850,000 will go to the YWCA of Northwest Indiana for after-school and summer programs; $850,000 will go to Ivy Tech Community College Northwest for the establishment of a Center on Logistics, Distribution, and Transportation; and $125,000 will go to KIPP LEAD College Prep School for student programs, staff training, and curricula development. “Access to high-quality education, whether for kindergarteners, college students, or adults pursuing their GED, is the foundation for future success in life,” said Visclosky. “These funds will help advance a full range of important educational initiatives in Northwest Indiana that give people of all ages and walks of life the tools they need to thrive in our community.” The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill, the Fiscal Year 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill, and the Fiscal Year 2009 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Appropriations bill. Commerce, Justice, Science and Financial Services and General Government are expected to be approved by the House Appropriations Committee today, and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education is expected to be approved by the Committee tomorrow. All three bills must be approved by both the House and Senate before they can be signed into law by the President.$750,000 for the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana The funding for the Challenger Learning Center of Northwest Indiana will be used to expand programming and upgrade the technology needed to run the Center in Hammond. The funds will also be used to expand the Center’s planetarium to offer new shows and programs and to offer additional workshops that provide valuable professional development opportunities for teachers. The Center is seen by both educators and public officials as a vital educational resource for Northwest Indiana that trains teachers and provides classroom materials to augment standard science curricula. Over 100,000 students have learned from the Center’s programs since it opened in 1999. The funding is included in the Commerce, Justice, Science bill. “Providing our children with a solid foundation in science, technology, engineering, and math is an essential component to preparing them for the new economy,” said Visclosky. “The Challenger Learning Center is a tremendous asset for Northwest Indiana that engages students in those subjects by piquing their interest in outer space and science in general.” “There is a need for quality science experiences in our region,” said Amanda Maynard, Executive Director of the Challenger Learning Center. “Our center provides opportunities for students to apply science, technology, engineering, and math to real-world situations and our programs focus on skills such as communication, problem solving, listening, and teamwork. The funding we will receive as a result of Congressman Visclosky’s efforts will ensure that our center can continue inspiring those who walk through our doors for years to come.”$250,000 for Valparaiso University The funding for Valparaiso University (VU) will be used by the University’s Department of Geography and Meteorology for equipment upgrades and program support. The Department is at the top of its field and VU is one of only a few universities in the nation to use dual-polarization Doppler radar and radiosonde balloon technology. The technology is used in student and faculty research and also helps keep Northwest Indiana prepared for significant weather events such as lake effect snow and tornadoes. In fiscal year 2008 Visclosky secured $817,000 for the department’s radar system. This year’s funding is included in the Commerce, Justice, Science bill. “The Valparaiso University Meteorology Department not only performs cutting edge scientific research, but also serves the community by closely monitoring the weather and keeping residents informed of significant events,” said Visclosky. “Valparaiso University is pleased to acknowledge the recent award of $250,000 for meteorology activities and programs in the Department of Geography and Meteorology, thanks to the tremendous leadership of Congressman Pete Visclosky,” said Dr. Jon Kilpinen, Dean of the College of Arts & Sciences at Valparaiso. “This award will support the acquisition of a Doppler radar instrument and an automated radiosonde balloon launcher. The weather forecasting data will benefit students, faculty, and area residents through partnerships with local schools, the National Weather Service, and national weather researchers.”$850,000 for YWCA of Northwest Indiana The funding for the YWCA of Northwest Indiana will be used to expand the Ready 4 Work and Kids Café programs. The Ready 4 Work program provides educational assessment, GED education, and remediation services for women and offers childcare and enrichment programs for their children while they participate in the program. The Kids Café program provides a safe haven for children, including at-risk youth, to prevent them from engaging in destructive behavior like crime and drugs. It offers a nurturing after-school and summer environment for children between the ages of six and 17 and their families. In fiscal year 2008, Visclosky secured $191,000 for the YWCA’s programs. This year’s funding is included in the Commerce, Justice, Science bill. “The YWCA provides women and children in Gary with a constructive, nurturing place to go to develop their academic and social skills,” said Visclosky. “The Ready 4 Work and Kids Café programs give many people in Northwest Indiana the help and support they need to build a successful life for themselves.” “Our YWCA, along with the children and families of Northwest Indiana that we serve, are sincerely appreciative of the continued support of our Congressman Pete Visclosky,” said Cynthia Powers, Treasurer of the Gary YWCA. “We join him in working tirelessly to improve the quality of life and the health and welfare of all of our citizens. Without a doubt, the appropriations of these funds will significantly aid us in these efforts.”$850,000 for Ivy Tech Community College Northwest The funding for Ivy Tech Community College Northwest will be used for the establishment of a Center on Logistics, Distribution, and Transportation at the Gary campus to provide students training in that industry. Northwest Indiana has a diverse mix of air, land, and sea shipping options and the new Center will allow the area’s residents to take advantage of the region’s logistics, distribution, and transportation resources by pursuing careers in that field. $450,000 is included in the Financial Services and General Government bill and $400,000 is included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education bill. “I have long believed that improving and expanding our transportation capabilities will play an important role in creating new economic opportunities for Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “I am glad that Ivy Tech recognizes the importance of the industry to building a new economy for Northwest Indiana and will take the initiative to prepare our residents for successful careers in it.” “This investment in our Gary campus will help provide training for an industry that is important to the economic growth of the region,” said Thomas J. Snyder, President of Ivy Tech Community College. “We look forward to the opportunity to provide the talent needed to fill some of the workforce gaps that currently exist in this industry. We greatly appreciate the support and commitment that so many have shown to our state's community college system. This is another example of how Ivy Tech Community College is responding to the needs of our employers and serving as the engine for workforce development in the state.”$125,000 for KIPP LEAD College Prep School The funding for KIPP LEAD College Prep School will be used for student programs, staff training and curricula development at the Gary school. KIPP LEAD offers an innovative curriculum in which students are in class longer than in most public schools and attend school during the summer. The school fosters leadership, empathy, achievement, and determination through rigorous academic programs that are balanced with diverse extracurricular activities. The funding is included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education bill. “KIPP LEAD uses its innovative approach to learning to help children in Northwest Indiana overcome obstacles so that they can acquire the knowledge and skills they need to get ahead in life,” said Visclosky. “We feel very fortunate to have the support of Congressman Visclosky, as is evidenced by this substantial amount of financial support for our upcoming school year,” said Makiyah Moody, Director of Development for KIPP LEAD. “KIPP LEAD offers a unique program where students spend 60 percent more time in school than traditional public school students. It will be exciting to see how our student programming, extracurricular activities, and staff development are enhanced with these additional resources.”
06.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $3.75 million for Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement officers to support them in keeping Northwest Indiana safe from crime and drugs and that his nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership will receive $25 million. Of the local funding, $3 million will go to the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) for operations; $475,000 will go to the Schererville, St. John, and Dyer Police Departments for law enforcement equipment; $225,000 will go to the Griffith Police Department for law enforcement equipment; and $50,000 will go to the Hebron Police Department for law enforcement equipment. “I am dedicated to helping our law enforcement officers acquire the tools they need to keep our communities safe from crime and drugs,” said Visclosky. “These funds to support law enforcement activities will help make communities safer and improve the quality of life throughout Northwest Indiana.” The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill and the Fiscal Year 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. Both bills are expected to be approved by the House Appropriations Committee tomorrow and must be approved by both the House and Senate before they can be signed into law by the President.$3 Million for Lake County HIDTA The $3 million for the Lake County HIDTA will be used to continue the HIDTA’s drug control programs and are included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. Visclosky helped create the Lake County HIDTA in 1996 to aid Northwest Indiana in overcoming a wave of drug and gang crime. He has helped it secure over $36 million for anti-drug and anti-gang efforts since then. The HIDTA, which is administrated by the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has made over 3,200 arrests and seized drugs and firearms worth a combined street value of over $245 million. “The HIDTA is one of the great crime fighting resources that we have in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “Since its creation it has taken a vast amount of drugs and weapons off our streets, put thousands of criminals in jail, and disrupted dangerous drug trafficking organizations. I will continue to provide funding for the HIDTA to chase drugs and gangs off our streets, out of our neighborhoods, and out of existence as long as the people of Lake County need its help.” “The funding for the Lake County HIDTA will ensure that it continues to fulfill its commitment to the citizens of Lake County in their fight against drugs,” said Thomas Gancarz, Chairman of the Lake County HIDTA. “It will allow the Lake County HIDTA to continue to provide a benefit to all Lake County law enforcement agencies.”$750,000 for Five Local Police Departments The $750,000 for local police departments is included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill and will be used to purchase technological improvements that help keep communities safe. “From communications technologies to in-car video cameras to mobile data terminals, the officers who are policing our streets should be equipped with the best law enforcement tools around,” said Visclosky. The $475,000 for Schererville, St. John, and Dyer will be used to purchase end-user and infrastructure equipment and related software, which will enhance the communication and data interoperability between the departments. The new equipment will allow the departments to meet their goals of utilizing information technology and enhancing communications to better meet the needs of the tri-town community. “In these challenging economic times with limited local funding, Congressman Visclosky being able to secure these funds for us is incredibly helpful in fighting crime in the tri-town area,” said David Dowling, Schererville Police Chief. “Especially on the technology side, as far as communications and mobile data terminals go, it will be very helpful for the officers to be able to access information like public data concerning criminal activity that will help with on-scene investigations.” The $225,000 for Griffith will be used for upgrades to the dispatch center, the purchase of new digital in-car camera systems for patrol cars, and the purchase of graffiti removal equipment. “I would like to thank Congressman Visclosky for his continued support of Griffith and the law enforcement community, which has been invaluable,” said Ron Kottka, Griffith Police Chief. “This funding will help us upgrade our communication center and our in-car video system. The upgrades will bring the Griffith Police department into the 21st Century and help my officers protect the citizens of Griffith during routine and emergency situations.” The $50,000 for Hebron will be used for the purchase of new digital in-car camera systems for patrol cars. “The cameras that we will install in our cars with this funding will help us safeguard both our citizens and our police officers,” said Steven Sibbrell, Hebron Police Chief. “I am very appreciative of the Congressman’s support, which helps us keep the citizens safe.”$25 Million for Visclosky’s Nationwide Bulletproof Vest Partnership The Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill contains $25 million for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership, which Visclosky created in 1998 after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment. The Partnership funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Since 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 818,000 law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. In Northwest Indiana, it has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. “Police officers risk their lives every day to keep us safe and by helping them buy bulletproof vests we can help them stay alive when they come in the line of fire,” said Visclosky. “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership has saved many officers’ lives and I am proud to have created it and to continue to fight for its funding.” On May 13, Visclosky introduced H.R. 6045, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008, which would reauthorize the Partnership through Fiscal Year 2012, extending the life of the grant program by three years. The legislation has garnered widespread support in the House of Representatives and must be passed in order to continue the Partnership beyond fiscal year 2009.
06.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $500,000 for flood control efforts in Lake Station and Hobart in the Fiscal Year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The funding will be used to address flooding problems in Lake Station and Hobart that occur when heavy rains cause water levels in Lake George to spill over into Deep River and Burns Ditch. “The recent flooding across Indiana and much of the Midwest reminds us in the most painful way that we must improve our flood control infrastructure,” said Visclosky. “The flooding problems around Lake George have caused considerable personal and financial hardship to the residents of Lake Station and Hobart and I am happy to provide federal funds to protect their homes, businesses, and general wellbeing.” In the last two years, both Lake Station and Hobart were declared federal disaster areas by the President when heavy rain caused the water level in Lake George to rise and spill over the Lake George Dam into Deep River and Burns Ditch. The two municipalities are working together to develop a flood control plan that mitigates the flood problem by removing debris from Deep River and its watershed, stabilizing the river banks, upgrading water management structures, and investigating other preventive measures. The efforts are intended to lessen the overall risk posed to residents and structures by flooding and reduce reliance on funding from disaster declarations. “As a child growing up, I remember the same area flooding, so this has been going on for forty plus years,” said Keith Soderquist, Mayor of the City of Lake Station. “Knowing this has been a problematic situation in heavy rains, I was quite surprised that it was never truly addressed. By working with Congressman Visclosky and acquiring these monies, we are setting Lake Station on the right path. We are putting together a comprehensive plan to address flood issues in Lake Station.” The funds are included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations Act and will come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Pre-Disaster Mitigation program. The bill is expected to be approved by the House Appropriations Committee tomorrow and must be approved by both the House and Senate before it can become law. “These funds will address a critical infrastructure need in Lake Station and Hobart,” said Visclosky. “I commend the two cities for working together to address the flooding problems that have plagued them in the past. I am confident that this project will help alleviate the problems associated with flooding so that people’s homes and possessions are protected.”
06.20.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today applauded the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for ruling that China dumps steel pipe and tube products on the U.S. market at below-cost prices and illegally subsidizes its steel industry. The ITC ruling puts in place countervailing duties against Chinese steel imports for the first time ever. “This historic ruling by the ITC is a crucial victory for American steelworkers,” said Visclosky. “For years, I have been sounding the alarm on China’s unfair trade practices. After years of watching steelworkers lose their jobs because the Administration refused to stand up to China, the ITC has finally done what is right. Now, with the relief that they will get from the countervailing duties, our steelworkers can begin to compete with China’s on a level playing field—one on which they can win.” The ITC voted to affirm findings announced by the Department of Commerce on June 9 that Chinese makers of circular welded steel pipe are dumping their products on the U.S. market at below-cost prices and that the Chinese government heavily subsidizes pipe and tube exports. Commerce found that Chinese steel pipe producers dump products at rates ranging from 69.2 to 85.55 percent, severely limiting American producers’ ability to compete. Because of the artificially-low prices on Chinese products, pipe and tube imports from China increased from 10,000 tons in 2002 to 750,000 tons in 2007. In that same time period, the American pipe and tube industry struggled to compete in the unfair market and was forced to cut 500 jobs, roughly one quarter of its workforce. The ITC’s final affirmative ruling found that American steelworkers and the American steel industry are injured as a result of China’s unfair trade practices. Visclosky wrote a letter to the ITC on May 20 encouraging it to provide relief for American steel producers. Because of the ITC decision, the Department of Commerce will level countervailing duties against Chinese steel pipe and tube imports. Upon receiving formal notice from the ITC, Commerce will have seven days to issue a countervailing duty order, which will remain in place for five years. The duties are subject to administrative review and adjustment each year, and at the end of five years the ITC must review the case and re-vote on the duties. “We make quality steel in Northwest Indiana and our steelworkers are the finest in the world,” said Visclosky. “With today’s ruling, the loss of good steelworker jobs of the last half decade should end. Hopefully, as demand for American steel goes up in response to today’s ruling, new steelworker jobs will be created in Northwest Indiana and across America.”
06.18.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he and four other Members of Congress sent letters to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting that they evaluate the safety of railroads operating in the United States and submit relevant findings on CN’s safety record to the Surface Transportation Board (STB) for consideration during its review of CN’s pending acquisition of the EJ&E Railroad. Serious concerns over CN’s commitment to safety that were brought to light recently in Canada prompted Visclosky and others to send the letters. “The serious concerns raised in Canada over CN’s safety record are yet another reason the STB should carefully scrutinize CN’s efforts to acquire EJ&E,” said Visclosky. “CN is proposing a three-fold increase on the EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana, and our communities cannot afford such a public safety hazard. I stand in staunch opposition to CN’s acquisition bid.” The letters cite a report by the Canadian Parliament’s Standing Committee on Transport, Infrastructure, and Communities that found CN to be in violation of Canadian safety standards several times. In particular, the letter notes a disconnect between management and frontline workers in their commitment to safety, the fact that CN received the lowest safety rating of all Canadian railroads, and reports that CN’s employees were reluctant to report safety violations because they were working in a culture of fear. Because of CN’s egregious safety record in Canada, the letters request that the FRA and GAO perform a similar evaluation of America’s railroads and submit their findings on CN to the STB for consideration in the CN/EJ&E transaction. In addition to the Canadian Parliament’s disturbing report, last week Transport Canada issued a safety recall of 10,000 wheel sets used on railroad freight cars that were made and operated by CN. The faulty wheel sets have caused at least 15 derailments and were previously recalled by the Association of American Railroads in November 2001. Transport Canada found that between 10,000 and 12,000 of the wheel sets remain on CN’s rail cars, providing further evidence of CN’s inadequate safety efforts. “The reports have demonstrated that CN is not committed to safely operating its railroad,” said Visclosky. “Safety ought to be the top priority of any railroad operating in the U.S. CN’s efforts to acquire EJ&E pose a clear and serious threat to public safety in Northwest Indiana and I am committed to leading the opposition of the transaction.” Should the acquisition be approved, it would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, the acquisition would bisect local communities, impeding the flow of automobile traffic and creating a considerable public safety concern. Additionally, the acquisition would create new obstacles to the expansion of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District’s South Shore Line and would hinder the expansion of Gary/Chicago International Airport. Opposition to the acquisition has been widespread in the affected communities and the STB has received an unprecedented level of public comment against the transaction. “I appreciate my colleagues from Illinois, Congresswomen Bean and Biggert and Congressmen Roskam and Manzullo, for writing to the FRA and GAO with me,” said Visclosky. “I am confident that our united opposition to the CN acquisition of EJ&E will result in a victory for Northwest Indiana and the communities they represent in Illinois.”
06.16.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Griffith-Merrillville Airport will receive a $167,200 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The funds will be used to improve safety at the airport and will result in new economic activity for the area. “Investing in our transportation infrastructure is a key component to building a new economy for Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “This grant, which will make the Griffith-Merrillville Airport a safer facility, represents an important federal investment in Northwest Indiana that will generate increased economic activity and new jobs.” The FAA grant will be used toward building a full taxiway parallel to the runway. The taxiway will improve the safety of operations at the airport by eliminating back-taxiing and providing separation between taxiing aircraft and those taking off and landing. In order to build the taxiway, land must be acquired to move existing hangars. The grant will help the airport conduct the environmental assessment necessary to acquire the land for hangar replacement and design the parallel taxiway. “By making the Griffith-Merrillville Airport a safer place to operate, we can attract more activity to the airport that will spill over into the surrounding communities,” said Visclosky. “The end result will be a new economy for Northwest Indiana and new good-paying jobs for its residents.”
06.12.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today voted for H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act, which provides much-needed relief to 3.8 million unemployed workers, including many jobless in Northwest Indiana, to assist them with rapidly rising gas and food costs while they struggle to find work in the slowing economy. The bipartisan bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 274 to 137. “The recent rise in unemployment is alarming,” said Visclosky. “The residents of Northwest Indiana are good, honest people who enjoy putting in a hard day’s work. Unfortunately, with the continuing troubles in the economy, too many people have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and need assistance as they struggle to reenter the workforce. The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act delivers the help they need in a cost-effective, fast-acting way.” Recent job loss and poor economic performance necessitated extending unemployment benefits. The U.S. economy lost jobs in each of the last five months, totaling 324,000 lost jobs over that stretch. In May, the unemployment rate had its biggest one-month increase in over 20 years, jumping to 5.5 percent, and there are now 1.5 million American workers who have been jobless for over six months and are considered long-term unemployed. Meanwhile, rising gas and food prices make it even harder for unemployed workers to make ends meet while they earnestly look for work. The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act will extend unemployment benefits by up to 13 weeks for workers who exhaust the 26 week regular unemployment compensation period. In states with higher levels of unemployment, defined as a seasonally-adjusted six percent total unemployment rate or a four percent insured unemployment rate, an additional 13 weeks would be available. Benefit amounts would equal the amount received under regular unemployment compensation and all benefits would be paid out of the $35 billion federal unemployment trust fund, making the bill fiscally responsible. According to the Congressional Budget Office, extending benefits will stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly and Moody’s Economy.com estimates that every dollar of benefits will generate returns of $1.64 across the economy. “People who want to work and contribute to our economy deserve assistance when they are out of work and unable to find a new job,” said Visclosky. “I am committed to providing them with the resources they require, and will continue fighting to keep existing jobs in Northwest Indiana.”
06.06.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced the selection of Munster High School junior Jelena Grozdanich to be a House of Representatives page this summer. “I am happy to announce Jelena Grozdanich’s selection to represent Northwest Indiana in the House page program this summer,” said Visclosky. “The page program will be a fun, educational experience for Jelena, who will play an integral role in the daily operations of the House of Representatives. I am confident she can meet the challenges of the program and will make Northwest Indiana proud.” House pages serve primarily as messengers, carrying important documents between congressional offices, committees, and the House chamber. They also prepare the chamber for each day’s business, assist in the operations of each party’s cloakroom, tend to the House chamber while Congress is in session, and raise and lower the flag on the roof of the House side of the Capitol. “I’m extremely grateful for the opportunity to work as a Congressional page,” said Jelena Grozdanich. “It’ll be a great experience to see all the Congressmen at work and to get an inside look at our government. I think it will be especially exciting to see how it works during this big election season.” There are 72 House page positions, with two-thirds for the majority party and one-third for the minority party. Members of Congress sponsor pages on a rotating basis. In Northwest Indiana, the First Congressional District Page Board, which is comprised of members of the community, reviews applications and recommends a nominee to Congressman Visclosky. In addition to meeting lofty academic standards, pages must be at least 16 years old, and have completed their sophomore year in high school, but not begun their senior year. Pages are paid for their service and live in the supervised House Page Residence Hall near the Capitol, but must cover the costs of their transportation to and from Washington and their page uniforms. Ten Members of the 110th Congress are former pages. “I congratulate Jelena on her selection to the House page program and look forward to seeing her in Congress,” said Visclosky.
06.05.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands in support of his bill, H.R. 573, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Technical Corrections Act. Visclosky wrote the bill to improve the quality of life in Northwest Indiana by helping the Lakeshore protect more of the unique dunes ecosystem and allowing more people to enjoy its natural beauty. “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a great natural treasure,” said Visclosky. “My bill would enhance the Lakeshore in the most affordable fashion and improve the quality of life in Northwest Indiana by helping the public gain further access to this natural wonder. Lake Michigan and the dunes are for everybody to enjoy, and I take great pleasure in helping the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore mature and helping people gain access to it.” At the hearing, Visclosky testified on the uniqueness of the ecodiversity of the dunes, especially given their close proximity to steel mills and other heavy industry. He also stressed the natural, educational, and recreational value of the Lakeshore to Northwest Indiana and the country as a whole. Thomas Serynek of Save the Dunes testified in support of the bill, and a representative of the U.S. National Park Service shared the Park Service’s thoughts on it. Visclosky’s prepared testimony is attached. “The Save the Dunes Council thanks Congressman Visclosky for his continued support of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore,” said Thomas Serynek. “We are appreciative of this current legislation that will enable the National Park to more easily expand to its authorized boundaries and enable individuals to contribute by donating land to this valuable resource.” Visclosky’s bill would help the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore through two key provisions. First, it would allow, but not obligate, the Secretary of the Interior to accept donations of lands located outside of the Lakeshore’s existing boundaries if, and only if, they are contiguous with the park or separated by only a right-of-way. At present, the Secretary is prohibited from accepting such voluntary contiguous land donations. Second, it would allow the Secretary of the Interior to acquire land within the boundaries of the park from units of state or local government by satisfaction of delinquent state or local taxes. There are some such properties within the Lakeshore and this provision would pull them out of limbo and into the park. “The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore is a natural wonder that makes the quality of life in Northwest Indiana better for everybody, especially since everybody has access to it,” said Visclosky. “I am grateful to Thomas Serynek of Save the Dunes for joining me as a witness at the hearing today, and to my colleagues in Congress who will help me pass this bill so that even more people can enjoy the dunes.”
06.04.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today successfully introduced an amendment to H.R. 3021, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, that would require all school construction funded by the bill to use only American-made steel. The bill, which is expected to pass the House of Representatives later this evening, is intended to make schools safer and more conducive to learning by modernizing facilities and Visclosky’s amendment will keep unsafe imported steel out of school buildings. “Unsafe imported steel from China and elsewhere is a serious threat to public safety in America,” said Visclosky. “By making our schools use only American-made steel, we know that the steel adheres to our safety standards and will not collapse on our children. My amendment helps alleviate a serious public safety concern and will also lead to good-paying steelworker jobs.” Visclosky’s amendment, which he introduced with Congressman Bart Stupak (D-MI), and which the House approved by voice vote, applies the principles of Visclosky’s American Steel First Act to the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act. Visclosky’s amendment requires that all steel purchased with funds authorized by the underlying bill be made in America, with exemption clauses if the needed steel cannot be made in America or if using American steel would increase the cost of a project by more than 25 percent. In April 2008, Visclosky, who is Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, convened a hearing on sub-standard Chinese steel imports. At the hearing, U.S. Customs and Border Protection testified that the government does not have an established process to monitor the safety of steel imports and representatives of the steel industry testified that some Chinese steel, which is used in vital infrastructure, fails to meet U.S. standards. In response to the findings of that hearing, Congressman Visclosky introduced H.R. 5935, the American Steel First Act, to require projects executed by the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Transportation to use only American-made steel. “As the Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and as the proud representative of the world’s finest steel producers, I am committed to doing everything I can for American steel,” said Visclosky. “This Amendment keeps our kids safe while they are in school and will create American steelworker jobs. It makes good sense, and I am grateful to Congressman Stupak, the members of the Steel Caucus, and my other colleagues who helped it pass the House. I hope they will continue their efforts and join me in advancing the much-needed American Steel First Act.”
06.02.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today applauded the U.S. Department of Commerce’s final affirmative findings that Chinese makers of circular welded steel pipe are dumping their products on the U.S. market at below-cost prices and that the Chinese government heavily subsidizes pipe and tube exports. The final affirmative findings are a major step toward imposing countervailing duties on Chinese imports that would allow American steel products to compete fairly. “The Department of Commerce’s findings are a major triumph for American steel producers and steelworkers who deserve to compete on a level playing field,” said Visclosky. “China has been cheating at trade and until now the Bush Administration has not had the courage to stand up to them. At long last, they are heeding my calls and, with these findings, have taken a huge step toward making trade fair.” The Department of Commerce found that Chinese steel pipe producers dump products at rates ranging from 69.2 to 85.55 percent, severely limiting American producers’ ability to compete. Because of the artificially-low prices on Chinese products, pipe and tube imports from China increased from 10,000 tons in 2002 to 750,000 tons in 2007. In that same time period, the American pipe and tube industry struggled to compete in the unfair market and was forced to cut 500 jobs, roughly one quarter of its workforce. The findings stem from a petition filed in parallel with the Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) by six welded standard steel pipe producers and the United Steelworkers alleging that imports of welded standard pipe from China were being dumped and subsidized by the Chinese government. The ITC, which preliminarily found that Chinese dumping and subsidies hurt American pipe and tube producers on July 31, 2007, will meet on June 20, 2008, to vote on final findings. Last month, Congressman Visclosky sent a letter, which is attached, to the ITC in support of the petition. Should the ITC affirm the Department of Commerce’s findings, the Bush Administration will be able to impose countervailing duties against Chinese pipe and tube imports. “As the Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus and the representative of the world’s finest steel producers I have fought tirelessly to make trade with China fair,” said Visclosky. “I am pleased with the Department of Commerce’s findings and hope the ITC and President Bush will follow suit. We need to hold China accountable for its unfair trading practices and these findings are a tremendous opportunity to do so.”
05.21.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky voted today in support of H.R. 6049, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act, to expand the production and use of renewable energy, create jobs, and provide tax relief to Northwest Indiana’s middle class families. The House of Representatives approved the bill with bipartisan support by a vote of 263-160. “With gas prices going up by the day and families being forced to spend large amounts of their budgets on gas, the need for a new energy policy and measures to support the middle class is clear,” said Visclosky. “The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act invests in renewable energy sources, will create many good-paying jobs for Northwest Indiana and the country, and provides hard-working people with much-needed tax relief.” The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act would increase the production of renewable fuels and renewable electricity and encourage greater energy efficiency in order to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and protect the environment. It extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy, and fuel from domestic sources, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. These provisions will help preserve and create many good-paying jobs in the renewable energy industry. The legislation also supports businesses that invest in America’s future and provides tax relief to millions of American families. It extends the research and development tax credit to spur American innovation and business investment, and cuts taxes for many people in Northwest Indiana. The bill would expand eligibility for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit and provide tax relief to homeowners who do not itemize their deductions by permitting them to deduct up to $700 of property taxes in addition to their standard deduction. It is a fiscally responsible measure, offsetting the tax breaks for hard-working people and businesses that invest in America by closing loopholes that allow corporations and executives to avoid paying taxes by outsourcing jobs and making investments overseas. “The weak economy has left families across Northwest Indiana struggling to make ends meet,” said Visclosky. “This bill will ease the pinch on families and will also create many much-needed jobs in Northwest Indiana. It is a common sense measure that the people of Northwest Indiana need.”
05.20.2008	Washington, D.C. – Senators Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh and Congressman Pete Visclosky today sent a joint letter to the Surface Transportation Board (STB) stating their opposition to CN’s request for an expedited environmental review and decision on its pending acquisition of the EJ&E Railroad. Their letter is below. “I appreciate the STB supporting our request for an Environmental Impact Study and encourage them to complete it in a careful and thoughtful manner, without deadlines that could hinder or curtail the process. I will continue to work closely with Congressman Visclosky and Senator Bayh to advocate for a comprehensive approach in determining the impact of this acquisition on residents, traffic, the Gary Airport, and the Northern Indiana Commuter Train District,” said Lugar. “Given the impact of this acquisition on local communities throughout Northwest Indiana, it’s important that the STB have the time for careful consideration of the deal,” Senator Bayh said. “I believe strongly that area residents should be given the opportunity for a thoughtful, public review and the chance to voice concerns and have their questions answered.” “I am grateful to Senators Lugar and Bayh for joining me in opposition to CN’s request that the STB perform an expedited review of its pending acquisition of EJ&E,” said Visclosky. “This is a matter of public concern and the STB should not hasten its ruling for CN’s private gain. The people of Northwest Indiana would be greatly affected by the acquisition and ought to have every opportunity to voice their concerns as it is reviewed by the government.” On May 13, CN filed a request with the STB that a decision on its proposed acquisition of EJ&E be issued by December 1. The impetus for the request was the fact that CN’s Stock Purchase Agreement with EJ&E, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the United States Steel Corporation, established a date of December 31, 2008 for completion of the transaction. CN argued that the deal must be completed by then to avoid a monetary loss and an uncertain business environment. In their letter, Lugar, Bayh, and Visclosky argue that, the Code of Federal Regulations “does not list the monetary cost to a company and the company’s ability to make ‘fundamental business decisions’ as factors that a federal agency should consider when requested to establish time limits for an environmental review process. Therefore, CN does not meet the criteria established by the Council on Environmental Quality and CN should not expect the STB to place their company’s bottom line above the quality of life and economic vitality of Northwest Indiana.” Should the acquisition be approved, it would result in a three-fold increase in rail traffic on the existing EJ&E line in Northwest Indiana. With as many as 34 trains per day running on the track, the acquisition would bisect local communities, impeding the flow of automobile traffic and creating a considerable public safety concern. Additionally, the acquisition would create new obstacles to the expansion of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District’s South Shore Line and would hinder the expansion of Gary/Chicago International Airport. Opposition to the acquisition has been widespread in the affected communities and the STB has received an unprecedented level of public comment against the transaction. Lugar, Bayh, and Visclosky have been leaders in opposition to CN’s efforts to purchase EJ&E. They received indication from members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation that they too would be writing a letter against CN’s request for an expedited decision.
05.16.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Ms. Gayle Carter, a social studies teacher at East Chicago Central High School, will participate in the U.S. House of Representatives’ 2008 House Fellows Program. Ms. Carter will attend a week-long institute in Washington, D.C. on the history and practices of the House of Representatives. “The House Fellows Program is a tremendous opportunity for Ms. Carter to come to Washington and see Congress operate first hand,” said Visclosky. “She will return to East Chicago Central High School with a better understanding of our legislative process and new knowledge to share with her students, fellow teachers, and the community.” The Office of the House Historian created the House Fellows Program in 2006 to provide teachers with insight into how the House of Representatives functions. This year, the House Historian chose Ms. Carter to represent Indiana’s First Congressional District at the institute, where she will be joined by 11 other teachers from across the country. The fellows will visit Washington from June 23 to June 27 to observe the House in legislative session and participate in briefings from the Office of the House Historian, the National Archives, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Library of Congress. Fellows will receive free room and board during the program, but are responsible for their own transportation to and from the capital. “I am excited that Ms. Carter will have the chance to participate in the Fellows Program and look forward to meeting her in Washington,” said Visclosky. “I am confident that her time in Washington will be very informative and that her students will benefit greatly from her experience.”
05.13.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today introduced the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 to help law enforcement officers purchase life-saving bulletproof vests. The bill would reauthorize a Department of Justice grant program created by Visclosky in 1998 that provides law enforcement officers with assistance in purchasing protective equipment. “Our police officers need and deserve the newest technology and equipment to keep them safe and allow them to more effectively do their job,” said Visclosky. “This week is National Police Week, the perfect time to honor our peace officers by taking efforts to aid them in their work. I am proud to introduce this bill, which will continue a program that has helped hundreds of thousands of officers acquire bulletproof vests and saved many of their lives.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 would reauthorize the Bulletproof Vest Partnership through Fiscal Year 2012, extending the life of the grant program by three years. Since 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has invested over $234 million in helping over 818,000 law enforcement officers purchase bulletproof vests. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership is authorized at $50 million per year and funds up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests purchased or replaced by law enforcement agencies. Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police said, “While we know that there is no way to end the deadly risks inherent in a law enforcement career, we must do everything possible to ensure that officers who put their lives on the line every day also put on a vest. Body armor is one of the most important pieces of equipment an officer can have and often means the difference between life and death.” Visclosky wrote the original authorizing bill for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership after he learned that gang members in Northwest Indiana wore bulletproof vests, but police officers did not have the resources to purchase the life-saving equipment. In Northwest Indiana, the Partnership has provided over $524,000 toward the purchase or replacement of over 2,800 bulletproof vests. “I have always considered it my job to provide our law enforcement officers the tools they need to do theirs,” said Visclosky. “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership has been a highly successful venture that has equipped many of Northwest Indiana’s officers with bulletproof vests so that they remain safe as they bravely protect our communities from crime.” Visclosky worked with Congressman Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) to draft the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008, which has widespread support in the House of Representatives. The bill has 90 bipartisan cosponsors and more are expected to sign on over the course of the day. The Law Enforcement Caucus, a group of Members who address issues affecting the law enforcement community, has put its full support behind the bill and a Senate companion measure is expected to be introduced by Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 2008 has been endorsed by the National Association of Police Organizations, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, and the Southern States Police Benevolent Association. “I strongly support our law enforcement officers, the brave men and women who combat crime on a daily basis,” said Visclosky. “The Bulletproof Vest Partnership provides a necessary resource to our law enforcement officers. The bill is a bipartisan product with widespread support. Congress should act quickly to lend a hand to law enforcement officers by approving this critical legislation.”Local Chiefs of Police Praise the Bulletproof Vest Partnership:Angelo Machuca, East Chicago Chief of Police: “Nowadays, being a police officer in any city is a very challenging occupation, especially with our troubling economy. With the assistance of Congressman Visclosky’ s bulletproof vest program, my officers, as well as others, can at least be assured that as we fight our domestic battle at home, we will be well prepared for another chance at life.”Brian Miller, Hammond Chief of Police: “The Hammond Police Department is very grateful that Congressman Visclosky is again implementing a bullet resistant vest program. This grant insures our police officers will have state of the art body armor while performing their duties. Congressman Visclosky obviously cares about the men and women in law enforcement.”Rod Gonzalez, Hobart Chief of Police: "With the financial issues we face in law enforcement today, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership has been instrumental in outfitting our officers with quality vests. Not only initial issued vests, but also to replace vests that have reached their recommended limits on years of service. Congressman Visclosky’s concern for the safety of our officers continues, especially during these difficult fiscal times."
04.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.) and Vice Chairman Phil English (R-Pa.) convened a Steel Caucus Hearing to further examine the dangers of imported Chinese steel products and explore policy options to ensure a level playing field for American steel producers. “The incidence of sub-standard Chinese steel is a public safety issue and lives are at stake,” said Visclosky. “China just doesn’t play by the same rules and, as was made evident in today’s hearing, we must take positive action to protect ourselves from Chinese steel and support our domestic steel industry.” Today’s Congressional Steel Caucus hearing focused on sub-standard Chinese steel, the growing volume of steel imported from China, and measures to protect the American public from dangerous Chinese steel. Visclosky, English and others heard testimony from: Daniel Baldwin, Assistant Commissioner, U. S. Customs and Border Protection Office of International Trade; Will Boggs, Chairman, Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports and Vice President, Allied Tube and Conduit; Bill Upton, President, Vulcan Threaded Products, a division of Vulcan Steel Products; and Mikey Bolt, United Steelworkers. In his testimony, Mr. Upton of Vulcan Threaded Products, stated that, after surveying Chinese steelmaking practices in China, he was highly skeptical that this practice would yield the product the mill was selling. To determine if he was correct, his company ordered and had tested at an independent testing laboratory threaded steel rods supposedly in conformance with the ASTM specification A193 B-7. Mr. Upton testified that the independent lab that tested the material found that the failure rate of the rods from China reached an astonishing 60 percent. This particular product is used in structural applications for securing or fastening in environments where strength is critically important, such as pipe lines, bridges, power plants, and other applications. “In light of the bad results of independent tests performed on Chinese steel products, it is abundantly clear that we need to put stronger protections in place at our ports of entry,” said Visclosky. “When sub-standard steel goes into our roads, bridges, and skyscrapers it threatens our safety and unnecessarily risks American lives. The Department of Homeland Security and Customs and Border Protection should be working to keep the American people safe by doing more than just enforcing tariffs at our ports.” Last fall, Visclosky and English highlighted the use of Chinese pipe on the border fence between the U.S. and Mexico. Citing concerns regarding the safety of the pipe as well as its adverse impact on American steel employers, the House lawmakers have joined together to announce the American Steel First Act, bipartisan legislation to strengthen the Buy America law to ensure American-made steel is used in applications like the border fence. Specifically, the legislation requires construction projects executed by the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Transportation to use 100 percent American steel. “The American Steel First Act will combat unfair steel imports by requiring the increased use of domestic steel products in federal projects,” said Visclosky. “It will give our steel industry a boost, create much-needed American jobs, and save lives.” The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of 108 Members of Congress who represent districts with steel manufacturers or care about the health of the American steel industry. Through legislation, roundtable discussions, and hearings, the Steel Caucus focuses on the needs of the steel industry and what it takes to level the playing field for employers and preserve American jobs.
04.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today secured $10 million in federal highway funds for improvements to State Road 312 in Hammond. The funding will provide for major improvements to the heavily-traveled East/West thoroughfare that improve the quality of life in Hammond and address serious safety concerns. “Every day, thousands of vehicles travel on State Road 312 in Hammond, a tremendous amount of traffic that causes major delays for local residents and business owners,” said Visclosky. “The improvements that this funding pays for will realign the road so that traffic delays are reduced and also address safety concerns stemming from at-grade railroad crossings and the high concentration of truck traffic. The quality of life and safety benefits to the people of Hammond and residents of Northwest Indiana will be great, and they will enjoy the economic boost that goes with better infrastructure.” State Road 312 is a major East/West highway that runs across Hammond, connecting manufacturing facilities in Northwest Indiana with Northeastern Illinois. Heavy truck traffic accounts for roughly twenty percent of the many thousands of vehicles that travel the road each day and there are several at-grade railroad crossings that pose serious safety threats. The federally-funded improvements to State Road 312 will build two grade separations at railroad crossings to address safety concerns and alleviate nuisances associated with at-grade crossings. They will also streamline the road by eliminating two 90-degree turns that have been the sites of numerous accidents. “Once these improvements are completed, driving across Hammond on State Road 312 will be a safer, smoother trip,” said Visclosky. “Traffic will move faster, treacherous turns will be eliminated, and grade-separated railroad crossings will prevent the deadly collisions that too often occur at our existing at-grade crossings. Air pollution from auto emissions will be reduced because of the diminished idling time cars and trucks will spend stopped at railroad crossings and red lights. And the improved transportation infrastructure will allow for more commerce, to the economic benefit of everyone.” The $10 million for improvements to State Road 312 were included in H.R. 1195, a bill making technical corrections to the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). The bill was approved by the House of Representatives today. It was previously approved by the Senate on April 17 and will now be sent to the President for enactment into law. President Bush is expected to sign the bill shortly. “I thank Hammond Mayor Thomas McDermott and the City of Hammond for acknowledging the need for improvements to State Road 312 and working with me to make them a reality,” said Visclosky. “By collaborating in this fashion we can leverage federal funding for local improvements and build a better Northwest Indiana for everybody.”
04.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that CSX and Norfolk Southern (NS) reached an agreement to share a rail line in the vicinity of Gary/Chicago International Airport (GCA), a critical step toward expanding the airport to revitalize Northwest Indiana’s economy. The accord was reached after Visclosky’s office met with CSX on March 13, and NS on March 27, to push the railroads toward reaching a deal. Visclosky’s office has been in constant contact with both railroads since. “This deal between CSX and Norfolk Southern represents a significant step toward expanding Gary/Chicago International Airport so that we can create new jobs and revitalize our local economy,” said Visclosky. “In recent conversations with the railroads it became evident that they both recognize the economic development potential of the airport and want to be there as we improve our transportation infrastructure to build a new economy for Northwest Indiana. Today’s agreement demonstrates tremendous foresight on the part of the two railroads when it comes to Gary/Chicago International Airport and will be remembered by the new workers the airport will one day employ.” The issue at stake for GCA was establishing a sufficient perimeter to allow for the eventual extension of the existing crosswind runway, a necessary improvement for increasing flight capacity and turning the airport into a regional economic engine. At present, the dormant CSX Fort Wayne Line lies within the perimeter required for runway extension, while NS’s Gary Branch, which runs parallel further to the North, is outside of the perimeter. In the agreement announced today, CSX will take ownership of NS’s Gary Branch while guaranteeing NS maintains its capacity on the line. This compromise makes it possible to remove CSX’s Fort Wayne Line and extend GCA’s crosswind runway. “In Northwest Indiana we need to create new jobs and we need new ventures like the GCA expansion to generate those jobs,” said Visclosky. “I commend CSX and NS for acknowledging the local economic benefits of the Gary/Chicago Airport expansion and for coming to the bargaining table so that we can make it a reality. I also thank Chris Curry and the Gary/Chicago International Airport Authority for their hard work to improve the airport and create jobs for the people of Northwest Indiana.” A third rail line, owned and operated by the Elgin, Joliet, & Eastern Railway (EJ&E), runs just west of the main runway and blocks its planned extension. GCA presented EJ&E with plans to relocate its tracks in order to allow for extension of the main runway and negotiations between the airport and the railway are ongoing. “I hope EJ&E will follow CSX and NS’s lead and help make the airport expansion, and the jobs and economic activity that will come with it, a reality,” said Visclosky.
04.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Town of DeMotte will receive $9,905,000 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development to construct a new public water system. The funding includes a loan of $6,286,000 and a grant of $3,619,000. “This funding from USDA Rural Development will leave a profound, lasting impact on the Town of DeMotte by providing a new public drinking water system,” said Visclosky. “I believe that everybody should have access to safe, clean drinking water in their homes and this assistance will make that a reality in DeMotte.” The USDA Rural Development money will be used to construct a new public water system that will provide safe, clean, drinkable water to 531 households and the community. At present, there is no public water system in DeMotte and residents use private wells for their everyday water needs. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) has found pollutants in some wells in DeMotte and the Fire Department draws its water from private wells, a pond, and the river instead of fire hydrants. “This project will not only deliver drinking water to hundreds of homes in DeMotte, but it will also address public health and public safety concerns,” said Visclosky. “Everybody in DeMotte will benefit from this project and DeMotte will become an even better place to live.”
04.15.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana Public Broadcasting, Inc., which broadcasts WYIN-TV, Lakeshore Public Television in Merrillville, will receive a $30,000 grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to help it meet guidelines for the digital television (DTV) transition in 2009. “It is important that people begin preparing for the DTV transition, which is less than one year away,” said Visclosky. “This grant, which will help keep Lakeshore Public Television on the air, serves as a reminder that people using analog-only televisions will have to get converter boxes in order to receive digital signals.” Northwest Indiana Public Broadcasting will use the funding to purchase and install a new Program and System Information Protocol generator. The generator creates supplemental information about each channel in the broadcast stream of a digital TV station, a process required by Federal Communications Commission (FCC) guidelines for the DTV transition. On February 17, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations in the United States will stop broadcasting on analog airwaves and begin broadcasting only in digital. Digital broadcasting will allow stations to offer improved picture and sound quality as well as additional channels. However, viewers who rely on antennas, including outside antennas and rabbit ears, to receive over-the-air broadcast signals on analog-only TV sets will need to obtain digital-to-analog set-top converter boxes to watch over-the-air TV. All households are eligible to request up to two coupons, worth $40 each, to be used toward the purchase of up to two digital-to-analog converter boxes. Applications can be completed at www.dtv2009.gov. “People watching analog-only televisions should take advantage of the government’s coupon program and get converter boxes so that their screens do not go black next February,” said Visclosky.
04.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive $7,744,166 in grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grants will be used to increase economic opportunities, improve homeless shelters, and expand the supply of affordable housing. “In these difficult economic times, with people facing foreclosures, it is important create affordable housing opportunities,” said Visclosky. “These HUD funds will go a long way in Northwest Indiana toward keeping people in their homes and off the streets and improve the quality of life for everybody.” $5,891,953 will be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and by expanding economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income people under the Community Development Block Grant Program. $1,588,163 will be used to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very-low-income families through housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. $264,050 will be used to improve the quality and number of emergency shelters. “Having a decent place to live is central to a person’s wellbeing and quality of life,” said Visclosky. “I am happy that these funds will be put to use improving the housing situation in Northwest Indiana.”
03.28.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Northwest Indiana Minority Business Opportunity Center has been awarded a grant in the amount of $130,000 by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency. “In Northwest Indiana we need to create new jobs,” said Visclosky. “This funding, which supports high growth potential businesses, will help build a new economy for Northwest Indiana with many new employment opportunities for the area’s residents.” The grant is part of the Minority Business Development Agency’s Minority Business Opportunity Center program. The funds will be used to facilitate business opportunities and coordinate local business resources to benefit minority entrepreneurs, with an emphasis on rapid growth potential companies. The Northwest Indiana Minority Business Opportunity Committee promotes the creation, growth, and expansion of minority-owned businesses in the cities of Gary, East Chicago and Hammond by helping businesses overcome barriers and take advantage of opportunities. “I am pleased that this federal funding is coming to Northwest Indiana so that we can create new jobs right here at home by helping entrepreneurs in some of the region’s more disadvantaged communities” said Visclosky.
03.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today issued a reminder to residents of Northwest Indiana who are not ordinarily required to file tax returns that they must submit IRS Form 1040A in order to receive economic stimulus checks from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Millions of Americans, including retirees, veterans, and low-income workers, do not have to file tax returns because their income is either not taxable or too low. The IRS will hold a workshop on Saturday, March 29, at its Merrillville office, located at 233 E. 84th Drive, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. to help people complete their 1040As. “If you are not ordinarily required to file a tax return because your income is not taxable or too low to be taxed, I strongly urge you to attend Saturday’s IRS workshop and file this year so that you are eligible to receive an economic stimulus payment from the government,” said Visclosky. “With gas prices and grocery prices high and rising, we could all use some extra cash in our wallets. I do not want anybody in Northwest Indiana to be denied the money they are due because they failed to complete simple paperwork.” In February, Congress passed and the President signed H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008. Visclosky joined a strong bipartisan majority in voting for the bill to help hardworking Americans struggling with high gas, healthcare, and grocery prices, create new American jobs, and galvanize a slowing economy. The Economic Stimulus Act will: • Put hundreds of dollars in cash in the hands of over 130 million Americans; • Build on the child tax credit through a one-time rebate of $300 per child; • Expand financing opportunities for people at risk of losing their homes in the mortgage crisis; • Promote small business investments in plants and equipment; and • Create 500,000 jobs by the end of the year. This Saturday, March 29, the IRS will hold a “Super Saturday” workshop in Merrillville to help people filing a return solely to receive their stimulus payment. The workshop will take place at the IRS’ Merrillville office, located at 233 E. 84th Drive, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Beginning in May, the IRS will issue economic stimulus payments of up to $600 per person, plus additional payments of $300 for each qualifying child. Millions of Americans who do not pay federal income taxes may be eligible for a $300 per person payment if they have at least $3,000 in qualifying income. Qualifying income is defined as any combination of earned income such as wages, nontaxable combat pay, and certain benefits from Social Security, Veterans Affairs, and Railroad Retirement. Many such households will also be eligible for an additional $300 for each qualifying child younger than 17. “In these difficult economic times, people in Northwest Indiana should take full advantage of the government’s efforts to help them out,” said Visclosky. “I commend the IRS for holding this Saturday’s workshop in Merrillville and for its other efforts to execute the bipartisan economic stimulus package.”
03.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced a design competition for a bronze statue of civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks that will be permanently installed in National Statuary Hall in the United States Capitol. “I am excited that artists in Northwest Indiana have the opportunity to honor Rosa Parks, an inspirational American, with their work,” said Visclosky. “The spirit of Rosa Parks lives on in the citizens of communities throughout our nation. It lives on in those who stand up for what is right and just, even in the face of adversity. It lives on in the people whose actions reflect the spirit of resolve and achievement that will help move our country forward.” In November, 2005 Congress unanimously passed a bill, of which Visclosky was an original cosponsor, to authorize the Rosa Parks statue. It marked the first time Congress had authorized a full-sized statue since the 1870s. The competition will be administered by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) in partnership with the Architect of the Capitol and the Joint Committee on the Library. Interested artists should submit an application to the NEA by May 30, 2008 that includes a proposal for the sculpture and work samples that demonstrate the ability to cast large-scale bronze sculptures and to work in the portrait mode. A panel of experts will select up to ten semifinalists to create small-scale maquettes for consideration by the Joint Committee on the Library. The Architect of the Capitol will commission the winning artist to create a bronze sculpture and granite pedestal. More information on the contest and its guidelines is available at https://www.arts.gov/grants/apply/RosaParks.html. “Northwest Indiana’s artists have the chance to memorialize Rosa Parks in a permanent display in the Capitol and I hope they take advantage of this opportunity,” said Visclosky.
03.13.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today applauded the return of commercial air service to Gary/Chicago International Airport. A SkyBus flight from Greensville, North Carolina landed at Gary/Chicago Airport this morning, the first commercial airline arrival since May, 2006. “I am energized by the fact that SkyBus’ first flight to Gary/Chicago International Airport landed today and hope that it marks a new era for the airport,” said Visclosky. “The Gary/Chicago Airport is one of Northwest Indiana’s most underutilized resources. It has the potential to create jobs and spur economic activity and is one of my top economic development priorities. In choosing to serve Gary, SkyBus acknowledged the inherent value of the airport’s strategic location near surface transportation and its proximity to downtown Chicago.” Visclosky has long been an advocate for Gary/Chicago Airport, helping it secure $97.3 million in federal funding to date, and working with local officials to best utilize the facility. From Fiscal Year 2001 through Fiscal Year 2006 he directed $14.6 million to the airport for apron expansion, runway overlay, safety modernization, and various other improvements. Visclosky also secured a total of $24.961 million in Fiscal Years 2004 and 2005 for the Indiana National Guard Readiness Center at the airport. Currently, the City of Gary and Gary/Chicago Airport have embarked on a major expansion project to enhance access to the airport for public and commercial users. The planned expansion would increase the size of the airport by roughly 50 percent and extend the main runway to a length of 9,000 feet. Visclosky worked with Senators Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh and Governor Mitch Daniels to promote the airport expansion plan and in 2006 the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a Letter of Intent, the strongest commitment the FAA can make, to provide Gary/Chicago International Airport with $57.8 million over the next 10 years. The funding would be used to relocate the EJ&E rail line, purchase land, and extend the main runway. “Imagine the new jobs and economic activity in Northwest Indiana if other airlines follow suit and bring service to Gary,” said Visclosky. “We must continue our efforts to expand and improve the airport so that it realizes its potential to become a driving force behind Northwest Indiana’s economy.”
03.11.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced his participation in the U.S. House of Representatives 2008 House Fellows Program for high school teachers. One American history or civics teacher from Northwest Indiana will be selected to participate in a week-long institute in Washington, D.C. on the history and practices of the House of Representatives. “The House Fellows Program is a tremendous opportunity for one of our outstanding teachers to come to Washington and see Congress operate first hand,” said Visclosky. “The teacher who is selected will return to Northwest Indiana with a better understanding of our legislative process and new knowledge to share with his students, fellow teachers, and school administrators, benefiting many in our community.” The Office of the House Historian created the House Fellows Program in 2006 to provide teachers with insight into how the House of Representatives functions. This year the House Historian chose Indiana’s First Congressional District as one of the 12 participating Districts and will select one teacher from Northwest Indiana to participate in the program. Fellows will visit Washington from June 23 to June 27 to observe the House in session and participate in briefings from the Office of the House Historian, the National Archives, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Library of Congress. Fellows will receive free room and board during the program. The Fellows Program is open to all high school American history or government teachers employed by a public, private, or parochial school in Indiana’s First Congressional District. Applicants must submit a resume and letter of intent stating their desire to participate in the program and a one-page proposal for a lesson plan relevant to the history and practice of the House. Applications should be faxed or emailed to the House Historian at 202-226-2931 or historian@mail.house.gov, respectively. Interested teachers can contact the House Historian at 202-226-5525 for more information. “I am excited that a teacher from Northwest Indiana will have the chance to participate in the Fellows Program and encourage all eligible teachers to apply,” said Visclosky.
03.03.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Boys & Girls Club of Northwest Indiana in Gary has been awarded a U.S. Department of Education Mentoring Program Grant in the amount of $193,036. “It is essential that we provide all of our children with the resources they need to succeed in school and in life,” said Visclosky. “I am pleased this funding will help the Boys & Girls Club of Northwest Indiana improve the lives of many of Northwest Indiana’s most disadvantaged children.” The grant is part of the Department of Education’s Mentoring Program and will be used for mentoring programs for children with the greatest need by assisting them in receiving support and guidance from a mentor and for improving the academic achievement of these children.
01.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified in support of improving water quality in the Great Lakes, saying, “now is the time for Congress to pass legislation that pushes the envelope for protecting our nation’s waterways, and builds upon the progress made since the passage of the Clean Water Act.” Visclosky testified before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. In his remarks, Visclosky laid out three basic principles to guide the path forward when it comes to improving our nation’s water sources. Those principles include: Use technology and innovation to determine how much more can be done to improve water quality, Set rigorous standards that will lead to new economic development, and Because improving water quality is too important to approach on an ad hoc basis, any legislation enacted must be comprehensive, and include private, industrial, and public dischargers. “I believe it is time to once again raise the bar, and enact new water quality legislation that will allow our communities and future generations to prosper,” said during his testimony. Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has been a champion of investing in Lake Michigan’s shoreline because of the positive environmental and economic impact it will have on Northwest Indiana. One of Visclosky’s initiatives is the Marquette Plan, which is a lakefront investment strategy to open more of the lake to the public from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of Portage. Another effort Visclosky led with Judy Biggert (R-Ill.) is a joint technology study between the Water Institute at Purdue University Calumet and Argonne National Laboratory to address wastewater treatment challenges faced by BP and potentially other facilities along the Great Lakes. Testimony of Congressman Peter J. Visclosky Before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee; Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Progress Toward Improving Water Quality in the Great Lakes January 23, 2008 I would like to thank the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment for holding today’s hearing. In particular I would like to thank Full Committee Chairman James Oberstar and Ranking Member John Mica, and Subcommittee Chairwoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Ranking Member Richard Baker for their efforts to look toward the future and examine how progress can be made in improving the quality of water in the Great Lakes. I was born and raised on the South Shore of Lake Michigan, and I am still in awe of the vastness and magnificence of the Great Lakes. Stretching for over 750 miles from east to west, the Lakes account for a jaw-dropping 90 percent of the United States’ and 20 percent of the world’s surface fresh water—an amount made even more astounding given the fact that three out of four people on this planet wake up each day with the mission to find clean water. It is essential that federal, state, local, and tribal leaders continue to work together to commit the resources and develop a highly effective statutory framework to ensure the vitality of the lakes and their abundance of fresh water. In Northwest Indiana, I have worked with local officials, academic institutions, private industry and other Members of Congress in a bi-partisan fashion to advance clean water initiatives. Several years ago, I joined with Purdue University Calumet to help create the Water Institute, which conducts research on many aspects of water resource management, including water quality, and does so by way of a partnership between academics and research, private industry and economic development agencies. The Purdue Calumet Water Institute, given its proximity to Lake Michigan and the industry located on the southern tip of the lake is positioned to be a leader in advancing water quality issues, and I am proud to have secured federal funding for it. The issue of water quality has been at the forefront of public discourse in Northwest Indiana as BP announced plans to expand and reconfigure its refinery in Whiting, Indiana, so most of its feedstock can be heavy Canadian crude oil. As part of the public response to BP’s plans, I was happy to work with Congresswoman Judy Biggert of Illinois to initiate a joint study between the Purdue University Calumet Water Institute and Argonne National Laboratory to explore the application of exciting and emerging technologies that could address the wastewater treatment challenges faced not only by BP, but also potentially other facilities along the Great Lakes. While I am very proud of these initiatives undertaken in Northwest Indiana to address local water quality issues and believe that significant progress has been made in the region, more needs to be done. Given the importance that clean water plays in the security of our future and the massive scale of the Great Lakes, I believe it is imperative that the federal government play a very active role in environmental restoration of our fresh water resources. Looking back over the last half century, we have made great strides in improving the water quality of the Great Lakes and of the country as a whole. Gone are the days when rivers caught fire and it was estimated that two-thirds of our waterways were not safe to use. These improvements did not happen through divine intervention. They occurred because people in Congress took decisive action and passed meaningful legislation. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, more commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act (CWA), was a defining moment in federal efforts to reduce water pollution. The CWA established a comprehensive national regulatory system - eliminating the inconsistent state centered system created by previous legislation - and authorized programs that made major investments in municipal infrastructure. These new standards coupled with the massive federal and municipal investment in local water treatment facilities have resulted in a marked improvement in our nation’s water quality. The water quality of the Great Lakes has made significant gains in the 35 years since the enactment of the CWA. As noted in the “State of the Great Lakes 2007”, a joint publication of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Environment Canada, there has been a marked reduction in the levels of toxic chemicals in the air, water, flora, fauna and sediment. This improvement is no small part due to over 140 federal programs established to help fund environmental restoration and management activities in the basin. However, despite these measurable successes in water quality, the challenges facing us if we are to fully restore and protect the Great Lakes are still daunting. During 2005, Great Lakes beaches were plagued by nearly 3000 days of beach closings and advisories, which represents a 5 percent increase over the 2004 numbers. Further, sportfish consumption advisories persist for all of the Great Lakes. Additionally, of the 43 designated Areas of Concern, only three have been delisted and only one of these has been in the United States. It is my belief that now is the time for Congress to pass legislation that pushes the envelope for protecting our nation’s waterways, and builds upon the progress made since the passage of the CWA. In order to make substantial progress, there are a few principles that I believe can guide our path forward. First, we must recognize the practicality of new clean water legislation, and push for and reward new innovation. Our technical ability to measure water quality has most likely outpaced the technologies available to solve our problems in some instances. New technologies, their implementation and the economics involved will determine how far our next step can take us. Second, we must set more rigorous standards. Any clean-water legislation must include improved standards, and recognize the ability of industry to achieve the new levels in a responsible period of time. I believe these standards can accommodate and create new economic development. In other words, we must step out as far as is practicable. Next, I believe that new water quality legislation must require that everyone play by the same rules. Improving our nation’s and our planet’s water quality is too important to use this as an opportunity to go back in time and try to restrict legislation to a particular region or industry. Instead, I believe a comprehensive approach must be taken that puts all private, industrial, and public dischargers under the same standards within their respective classes regardless of where they might be within the basin. While there has been a particular focus on heavy industry’s impact on water quality, many of the problems facing our supply of fresh water lay with public treatment facilities. Unfortunately, many communities have limited financial resources to upgrade their water treatment facilities. This problem is particularly acute in the Great Lakes basin as evidenced by the prevalence of Great Lakes states near the top of the EPA’s 1996 Clean Water Needs Survey. I, therefore, applaud this Subcommittee’s leadership in the passage of H.R. 720, the Water Quality Financing Act of 2007, which addresses the need for a massive investment in wastewater infrastructure. Water quality transcends many of the most important issues our nation faces. It is a health issue. It is an environmental issue. It is an economic development issue, and it affects everyone’s quality of life. I believe it is time to once again raise the bar, and enact new water quality legislation that will allow our communities and future generations to prosper. I congratulate you on your commitment and initiative and support your efforts. Thank you again for the opportunity to appear before you today in this very important matter.
01.17.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today introduced legislation to protect consumers from unsafe imports with common-sense business practices that would hold distributors responsible for damages caused by dangerous products. The Food and Product Responsibility Act aims to reduce the number of food and product recalls that continue to affect American consumers. “With product recalls affecting people in Northwest Indiana and the entire country, I believe more can be done to protect families from unsafe imports,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “When a business wants to do work for a local government in Northwest Indiana, they must be bonded to show they can cover damages they may cause. This bill applies this basic principle to protect hundreds of millions of Americans, and ensures that taxpayers don’t get stuck paying for a company’s unsafe imports.” “The Food and Product Safety Act follows basic common sense,” continued Visclosky. “When a company imports products into the United States, they must first get their merchandise bonded. If the products are then unsafe, defective, or if a recall takes place, the company must pay the costs. This protects consumers from unsafe products, ensures that importers have enough money or insurance to pay for damages their products might cause, and it also forces the importers to take extra effort to ensure the quality of the goods they bring into this country.” The bill is a companion measure to legislation introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Bob Casey (D-PA), and would direct the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to implement a program, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, that requires distributors to demonstrate that they have sufficient financial resources to cover costs associated with product recalls and compensatory damages resulting from product defects. The legislation would also grant the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to authorize recalls of meat, poultry, and egg products and the Food and Drug Administration the authority to authorize recalls for the products it regulates. It also directs the Department of Homeland Security to gather input from cooperating federal agencies and submit an annual progress report to Congress. Implementation has a two-year phase-in period to allow the insurance market and the distributors time to adjust. Unsafe imports from China and other countries have put American families in harm’s way, as 20 million toys manufactured in China were recalled this summer because they were dangerous to children. Some of those toys contained nearly 200 times the legal amount of lead. Additionally, 80 percent of the toys bought in the United States are now imported from China, with the vast majority of these toys never being inspected. “For the safety of our children, and for the additional protection to taxpayers, this legislation is an important part of strengthening our product safety laws,” said Visclosky.
01.02.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced he will be holding 24 Town Forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District during the month of January. Each year Visclosky holds forums throughout the region to hear directly from constituents and provide an update on the issues facing Congress and Northwest Indiana. “There are many important issues facing this country and Northwest Indiana right now, including rising gas and energy prices, creating good-paying jobs, working to make high-quality healthcare more accessible, and establishing a responsible timetable for redeploying our troops from Iraq,” said Visclosky. “As the New Year and the new session of Congress begin, I want to hear directly from the people of Northwest Indiana on the issues that matter most to them.” Visclosky has scheduled a town forum in every region of the 1st Congressional District, and each meeting provides an opportunity for constituents to discuss any topic with the Congressman. Just like in the past years, a local middle or high school student will have the opportunity to introduce Congressman Visclosky in his or her community and lead the forum in the Pledge of Allegiance. “These young leaders are the future of Northwest Indiana, and I thank each of them for taking an active role in these public meetings,” said Visclosky. Congressman Visclosky’s Town Forum Schedule for 2008:Tuesday, January 8, 2008 9:30 am EST (8:30 CST) - Fowler: Benton County Library, 102 North Van Buren Introduction by Taylor Claire, 8th Grade, Benton Central Jr-Sr High School 10:30 am CST - Morocco: Newton County Municipal Center, 4117 South 240 West Introduction by Abagale Wedding, 8th grade, North Newton Junior Senior High School 12:30 pm CST - Rensselaer: Rensselaer City Hall, 122 South Van Rensselaer Street Introduction by Christopher Salrin, 8th Grade, Rensselaer Central Middle School 2:30 pm CST - Demotte: Robert A. Fase Education and Senior Center, 11978 North 600 West Introduction by Morgan Bell, 8th Grade, Kankakee Valley Middle School 4:30 pm CST - Hebron: Hebron Library, 201 West Sigler Street Introduction by Natalie Kaczmarski, 6th Grade, Hebron Middle SchoolWednesday, January 9, 2008 10:00 am - Hobart: Hobart Community Center, 111 East Old Ridge Road Introduction by Cierra Payton, 8th Grade, Hobart Middle School 12:00 pm - Griffith: Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street Introduction by Brooke Brinkley, 8th Grade, Griffith Middle School 2:00 pm - Highland: Highland Recreation (Lincoln) Center, Room 16-18, 2450 Lincoln Street Introduction by Jarhett Adams, 8th Grade, Highland Middle School 4:00 pm - Munster: Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road Introduction by Oliver Sutter, 8th Grade, Wilbur Wright Middle School 6:00 pm - Hammond: E.B. Hayward Library, 1212 172nd Street Introduction by Gabrielle DiFiore, 8th Grade, Scott Middle SchoolThursday, January 10, 2008 10:00 am - Valparaiso: Valparaiso City Hall, 166 Lincolnway Introduction by Brandon Karcher, 8th Grade, Benjamin Franklin Middle School 12:00 pm - Chesterton: Westchester Public Library Service Center, 100 West Indiana Avenue Introduction by Michael Leopold, 8th Grade, Chesterton Middle School 2:00 pm - Portage: Portage Public Library, 2665 Irving Street Introduction by Shubhkarman Multani, 8th Grade, Willowcreek Middle School 4:00 pm - Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall, 3625 Central Avenue Introduction by Brandon Derek Michael Dothager, 8th Grade, River Forest Junior High School 6:00 pm - Gary: Gary Wildermuth Library, 501 South Lake Street Introduction by Tremaine Tillotson, 8th Grade, Dunbar-Pulaski Middle SchoolFriday, January 11, 2008 10:30 am - Cedar Lake: Cedar Lake Library, 10010 West 133rd Avenue Introduction by Samantha Bathurst, 8th Grade, Hanover Central Middle School 12:30 pm - Schererville: Saint John Township Community Center, 1515 West Lincoln Highway Introduction by Rachel Giese, 8th Grade, Grimmer Middle School 2:30 pm - Dyer: Dyer Town Hall, One Town Square Introduction by Traci Muszalski, 6th Grade, Kahler Middle School 4:30 pm - Crown Point: Crown Point Civic Center, 101 South East Street Introduction by Carlie Govert, 8th Grade, Taft Junior High School 6:30 pm - Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway Introduction from student to be determined.Saturday, January 12, 2008 9:00 am - Gary: Gary Public Safety Center, 1st Floor Community Room, 535 Polk Street Introduction by Oliver Thornton, 8th Grade, Tolleston Middle School 11:00 am - East Chicago: East Chicago Public Library, 2401 East Columbus Drive Introduction by Tatiana Brito, 8th Grade, Block Junior High School 1:00 pm - Whiting: Whiting City Hall, 1443 119th Street Introduction by Jonathan Dietz, 8th Grade, Whiting Middle School 3:00 pm - Hammond: Hammond Main Library, 564 State Street Introduction by Calvin Sanders, 8th Grade, Eggers Middle School
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $12 million for a wide-range of programs including educational programs, disaster preparedness, and transportation projects throughout Northwest Indiana. The funding is part of the Consolidated Appropriations Bill (HR 2764), which has passed the House and Senate, and is expected to be signed into law by the President. This funding is in addition to the over $58 million in energy and water infrastructure projects and $4.6 million in crime prevention funding, also in HR 2764, announced by Visclosky earlier this week. $931,000 for Northwest Indiana Educational Investments Also included in the legislation is $931,000 for a range of educational initiatives in Northwest Indiana, including after-school programs for K-12 students, funding for an urban academy geared for college bound students, and support for Indiana University Northwest’s (IUN) Health Research Institute. “Access to high-quality education, whether for college-bound students, after-school K-12 programs, or research institutions, is the foundation for future success in life,” said Visclosky. “These funds will help advance a full range of important educational programs in Northwest Indiana.” Specifically, the Indiana University School of Medicine in Gary will receive $502,000 for facilities and equipment at the newly formed Northwest Indiana Health Research Institute, which advances new knowledge and information about the health and care of urban populations. The goal of the Institute is to conduct research projects of various kinds, including the capacity to conduct epidemiological studies and other surveys. The Northwest Indiana Health Research Institute will research health problems associated with urban living and treatment strategies appropriate to those populations. Examples include epidemiological and health disparity studies of impacted sub-groups, behavioral analysis, disease specific studies pertaining to asthma, cardiovascular and pulmonary health as well as cancer incidence and type. Visclosky also secured $238,000 for to help fund the Hammond Purdue Calumet urban academy focused on technology and science with a college-bound curriculum. Purdue University Calumet, with the support of the Civil City of Hammond, will create an urban academy as an alternative educational opportunity for Hammond residents. The academy would begin as a middle school focused on technology and science with a college-bound curriculum>, with the academy adding grade levels each year until it becomes a middle/high school. The academy would serve approximately 90 students per grade, and parental involvement would be a prerequisite for application. “A quality education at the middle and high school level is vital for Hammond to attract and retain the families, jobs, and economic opportunities that we need to be successful,” said Hammond Mayor Tom McDermott, Jr. “By partnering with Purdue University Calumet and Congressman Visclosky’s office, the students of Hammond will have access to new educational opportunities and an improved quality of life. Visclosky also secured $191,000 for after school and summer programs at the YWCA of Gary. The Gary YWCA will offer an after school and summer program, called Kids Café, designed to provide a safe haven for children and prevent them from engaging in risky behavior. The program aims to serve youth throughout Northwest Indiana by offering activities designed to promote physical, mental and emotional development. Activities include tutoring, mentoring, arts and crafts, swimming lessons, golf instruction, tennis, weight management and computer training. $2.06 million for NWI Environment/Infrastructure Included in the legislation is funding to help the program tasked with preserving and restoring Indiana’s lakeshore. The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will receive $1.476 million for land acquisition. The funding for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore fits into Visclosky’s vision for investing in Lake Michigan to improve the area’s economic and recreational opportunities. “Everyday, our position on Lake Michigan becomes more valuable,” said Visclosky, who has championed lakeshore restoration through his Marquette Plan. “When we invest in the future of our lakeshore, we are investing in the future of Northwest Indiana.” In order for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to realize its authorized boundaries, it is necessary to acquire additional land. Overall, the total number of remaining acres within the National Lakeshore boundary that has yet to be acquired totals approximately 4,300 acres. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will have funding to continue acquiring critical parcels of land, especially hardship properties. The purchase of these congressionally authorized lands will allow more people to enjoy the beauty of the Indiana Dunes,” said Tom Anderson, Executive Director of Save the Dunes. IDNL was authorized by Congress in 1966, and runs for nearly 15 miles along southern Lake Michigan, bordered by Michigan City, Indiana on the east, and Gary on the west. In 1986 and 1992, Congressman Visclosky authored legislation to expand the Dunes, resulting in the addition of more than 2,000 acres to the National Lakeshore. The park contains approximately 15,000 acres, 2,182 of which are located in Indiana Dunes State Park and managed by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. In addition to the funding for the Dunes, Visclosky was also able to secure $492,000 for water and sewer infrastructure improvements in Merrillville. This funding will help to offset the cost of installing water mains to areas of the town currently have wells intermingling with the septic system. This bill also includes $98,000 for the restoration of St. Joseph’s Theatre at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer. $7.252 million for NWI Transportation Visclosky was able to secure funding for several transportation infrastructure projects throughout the 1st Congressional District, including $4.9 million for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District’s (NICTD) efforts to continue to invest in commuter rail throughout Northwest Indiana, which was also supported by Senator Richard Lugar and Congressman Joe Donnelly. The funding for all of the transportation projects will create new economic opportunities and improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana, according to Visclosky. The South Shore Line is a major contributor to the economic engine of Northwest Indiana, operating more than 12,800 trains and carrying more than 4.2 million passengers annually to the good-paying jobs and economic opportunities in Chicago. The South Shore is uniquely positioned in the heart of Chicago’s Loop within easy access to approximately 500,000 jobs, nearly doubling the job base of Lake and Porter counties. Visclosky sees this funding part as part of a larger strategy to not only improve the existing rail line, but also to make progress on the expansion of the South Shore. “The South Shore Rail Line is part of building a new economy in Northwest Indiana, and we have an opportunity to enhance and expand this economic engine,” said Visclosky. “This funding will help lay the foundation for an expanded rail service by first improving the existing line. In addition to this federal support for the South Shore, a long-term non-federal funding source should be identified to ensure the expansion moves ahead quickly.” Specifically, this funding will enable NICTD to continue with the designing and building of new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems. These two projects will improve operational flexibility and reliability; while the signal project will have the added benefit of increasing track capacity to accommodate escalating demand. The signal project will provide full, centralized traffic control of the passenger line using state-of-the-art microprocessor-based systems to support the signal network. Also included in the legislation is $1.225 million to align 45th Street and Calumet Avenue in Munster. By allowing this east-west thoroughfare to be aligned, traffic congestion and train interruptions will be greatly reduced. Visclosky also secured $392,000 for improvements and updates to bike trails in the Town of Highland. The funding will be used >to provide lighting and other improvements for the Highland portion of the Erie Lackawanna Trail, a multi-town bike trail. In South Haven, Visclosky was able to secure $294,000 for sidewalks and streetscape improvements in this Porter County community. This funding would be used to construct sidewalks near schools, parks and other youth-oriented facilities in the community. Also included in the legislation is $245,000 to go to the Town of Winfield to study improvements to 109th Avenue. With a new I-65 interchange planned for 109th Avenue, the funding will be used >>by the Town of Winfield to study what the town can do to improve a three mile stretch of 109th Avenue. Visclosky also secured $196,000 for Rohrman Park in Schererville. This funding will be used for park expansion and improvements, including improvements to the athletic fields in the park.$1.09 million for Advancing Science in Northwest Indiana Two initiatives aimed to enhance scientific capabilities in Northwest Indiana were also included in this legislation. The expansion of the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana will receive $282,000, in addition to the $1.968 million that Visclosky announced yesterday. This brings the total amount of funding Visclosky has secured for the high-tech facility to $9.15 million, including the initial funding Vislcosky secured for the construction of the incubator. Also included in the legislation is $817,000 for Valparaiso University to help purchase a dual-polarization detection Doppler weather radar system. This advanced radar system will be a valuable teaching tool for the University’s Meteorology department, and will allow the university to provide up to the minute weather information to entities in Northwest Indiana and the surrounding areas. $765,000 for Community Security in Northwest Indiana In Dyer, $550,000 will be used to complete Phase II of the Beren’s Monaldi Flood Diversion Wall. This flood diversion wall will protect over 100 flood prone homes in the Plum Creek watershed. “The Town of Dyer is extremely appreciative of the efforts of Congressman Visclosky to secure funding Beren’s Monaldi Flood Diversion Wall project. His efforts have resulted in the contribution of more than $1 million in federal funds to assist with protecting the residents of the most flood prone area of our community,” said Joe Neeb, Dyer Town Manager. “Many of our residents in the Beren’s Monaldi subdivision suffered significant losses as a result of that flood which occurred on Plum Creek in August, and it is that type of event on that creek that the floodwall project is designed to protect our residents from. With the Congressman’s help we will be able to complete this much needed project.” In Jasper County, $215,000 will go for an Outdoor Siren Warning System. This funding will go toward the purchase and installation of an outdoor siren warning system that currently only covers a small geographic area and is unreliable in severe weather, which is a public safety concern.
12.18.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $4.6 million for Northwest Indiana crime-prevention initiatives as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Bill (HR 2764), which passed the House late last night. The bill is now pending consideration in the Senate, and will later be signed into law by the President. This funding is in addition to the over $58 million in energy and water infrastructure projects, also in HR 2764, announced by Visclosky yesterday. “Northwest Indiana law-enforcement officials serve on the front lines of keeping our communities safe and secure, and it is crucial they have the necessary tools to track down criminals and bring them to justice,” said Visclosky. “These funds for crime-prevention programs are investments in safer communities, and an improved quality of life.” The Lake County Sheriff’s Department is set to receive $658,000 for two major and much needed technological upgrades. A majority of the funds will be for the Wireless Network Project, which will serve as the fundamental vehicle by which the Lake County Sheriff Department, Fire Department, EMA and EMS will establish an interoperable communication system, which was a regional recommendation of the Good Government Initiative. The funds will be used for the purchase of data sharing software and interoperable wireless communications devices. “As the Sheriff’s Department continues our efforts to track down those who have committed crimes, it is crucial that we have access to high-quality equipment and technology that will assist in our efforts, and I thank Congressman Visclosky for his continued assistance,” said Lake County Sheriff Roy Dominguez. The remainder of the $658,000 will be used to purchase digital photography equipment and software for the Lake County Sheriff’s Crime Lab, which was also a recommendation of the Good Government Initiative. According to the initiative, the current photography equipment in the lab is over 20 years old and current processing of photos is inefficient. Another law-enforcement tool that will receive funding, and is part of the Good Government Initiative is the Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), which will receive $376,000. In an effort to increase the safety of Northern Lake County Indiana, six police departments; Hammond, Gary, East Chicago, Whiting, Highland and Hobart, have agreed to create an integrated booking system that electronically captures, prints and transmits fingerprints and data. The implementation of this system will allow these departments to share their resources and to more efficiently identify and arrest criminals. The funds provided will be used to purchase and install the equipment in the six departments. “This program is an opportunity to expand our electronic crime fighting capabilities,” said Hammond Police Chief Brian Miller. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s efforts, we will be able to identify suspects and link them with other police departments throughout the area.” The Gary Police Department will receive $451,000 to complete Phase IV of the Shot Spotter Gunfire Detection System by purchasing additional sensors. The Gary Police Department will use the system to deal with gun-related crime, including a significant number that are directly related to drug trafficking and gang activity. Also included in the legislation is $94,000 for the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” Program. This program, which is based in Gary and is part of the Department of Justice’s Juvenile Justice Program, provides programming activities for youth between the ages of 13-18 years old. The goal of the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” program is to provide a positive, structured environment in which the participants work to improve academic achievement, social skills and emotional maturity. Visclosky was also able to secure $3.022 million for the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). The Lake County’s HIDTA’s goal is to reduce illegal drug-trafficking and drug-related crime throughout the area. “Because so much of the crime in Northwest Indiana is related to drug activity, it is critical to invest in anti-drug programs like HIDTA,” said Visclosky. Also included in this appropriations bill is $25.850 million for the nation-wide Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program, which Congressman Visclosky authored in 1997. The program works with local law enforcement agencies throughout the country to provide funding for the purchase of bulletproof vests. The purpose of the program is to save the lives of law enforcement officers engaged in local crime-fighting activities. "The Bulletproof Vest Program provides assistance to the brave men and women who protect our neighborhoods,” said Visclosky. “The continued funding of this program will make it easier for local law enforcement agencies to purchase bulletproof vests.” Earlier this year, in addition to this funding for crime prevention, Visclosky announced he secured $800,000 for the Indiana National Guard’s Drug Demand Reduction Program, which will provide support to several drug-prevention programs for area students in Northwest Indiana.
12.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $58 million for energy, scientific research, flood control, and environmental projects in Northwest Indiana. The funding comes from the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, in which Visclosky serves as Chairman. “This funding shows that Northwest Indiana can be home to the cutting-edge, high-technology work needed to address some of our nation’s most important issues, including confronting the energy crisis and advancing scientific research and technology,” said Visclosky. “These investments will also help create new economic opportunities in Northwest Indiana.” The funding is part of the Consolidated Appropriations Bill (HR 2764), which the House is set to consider and pass early this week. The bill will then be sent to the Senate, and later signed into law by the President.Reducing our Dependence on Foreign Oil Included in the legislation is funding for several projects that will allow Northwest Indiana to be a part of addressing the energy crisis and work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. “In order for our country to become less reliant on foreign oil, we must invest in our existing energy resources,” said Visclosky. “These projects demonstrate that municipalities, our rural communities, and our existing natural resources can all be leveraged to make our country more energy independent.” The Town of Munster is set to receive $1.968 million to equip and construct a methane gas cogeneration plant, which would help develop new energy alternatives by converting methane from waste and refuse into electricity for the local power grid. The project provides an opportunity for local and federal governments to work together to develop local sources of energy. “The residents of Munster are lucky to have Congressman Visclosky as our advocate,” said Helen Brown, Munster Town Councilwoman. “The realization of this project will allow Munster to benefit from the generation of power from methane gas that would have been wasted, using a federal investment instead of local tax dollars. We truly thank him for his support.” Also included in the legislation is $1.476 million for a Bio-Energy Cooperative ethanol-biomass fuel plant at Fair Oaks. This funding would go toward the development of an ethanol plant that will use cellulosic energy sourced from environmentally treated animal waste. Investing in Science and New Technologies in Northwest Indiana The legislation also makes investments in local science and technology initiatives, including $1.968 million for the expansion of the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana. Expansion plans include an additional 12,000 square feet to provide space for the recruitment of new firms and the expansion of existing firms within the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana. In addition to the new area, the center currently provides 48,000 square feet for new and expanding companies. Officials of the center anticipated the possible expansion when they planned the technology center, and will be able accommodate the additional square feet upon the existing site. The Northwest Indiana Computational Grid, which is a joint effort between Purdue University Calumet, Purdue University, Notre Dame, and the Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory, also will receive $5.904 million to continue developing a scalable, high speed, high bandwidth, science driven computational grid that enables cutting-edge scientific research. “The Computational Grid is a perfect example of how educational institutions can partner with federal initiatives to create the infrastructure that will build a new economy,” said Visclosky. “The end result of this effort will make Northwest Indiana home to world-class technology, and home to world-class economic opportunity.” The Purdue Calumet Inland Water Institute will receive $492,000 under the legislation. The Water Institute will continue its research program and advance the mission of the institute, which is to conduct research, offer educational programs in water resources, and assist the private sector in economic development opportunities for water quality, efficiency and security. “Congressman Visclosky has been a champion for many initiatives that will bring new jobs and new cutting-edge science research to Northwest Indiana,” said Purdue University Chancellor Howard Cohen. “Purdue Calumet is proud to contribute its expertise to these projects for the benefit of our region.” Also included in the legislation is $984,000 for a cyber security program operated by Cimcor to implement an information security system at the Department of Energy. The security system allows computer servers to detect when they have been modified in an unauthorized manner, and will automatically repair those unauthorized changes.Environmental Infrastructure The legislation also includes funding for several water infrastructure projects throughout Northwest Indiana. “The funding for these projects provides a foundation for attracting new economic development and new good-paying jobs to Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “In order to keep and attract people to live, work and operate businesses in Northwest Indiana, we must have flood control infrastructure in place, along with clean bodies of water that will support the area’s economy.” Visclosky’s vision to invest in the South Shore of Lake Michigan will receive $394,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to develop guidelines on the best way to proceed with this economic development initiative. Indiana Harbor in East Chicago will receive $17.776 million to continue the construction of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF). In May of 2005, Visclosky announced that the federal government will pay the full amount for the CDF, relieving East Chicago taxpayers of the $40 million local expense. Specifically, this funding will go towards a continuation of the air monitoring program, operation of the groundwater treatment plant, and construction activities for the facility. “The full federal funding of this project makes it possible to complete the project sooner, save local taxpayer dollars, and ensure the health and safety of the people of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. The Indiana Harbor will also receive $704,000. This funding will support operations, condition surveys, and support of the CDF administration. The legislation also includes $895,000 for the Grand Calumet River. The funding will complete the feasibility phase, which studies water quality and aquatic improvements. Visclosky secured $5.392 million for operations and maintenance at the Burns Waterway Harbor International Port. This funding will allow for navigation dredging in critical areas within the harbor, complete repairs to the North Breakwater deferred from previous year, and complete condition surveys of channel, underwater reef and breakwater areas. The Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor will also receive $60,000 for operations and maintenance. Flood Control and Water Resources In the legislation, Visclosky secured $14.76 million for the Little Calumet River flood control project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will help protect citizens and property for years to come, preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. “To protect people’s homes, businesses, and well-being, this flood-control project cannot be completed soon enough,” said Visclosky. A project to restore Cedar Lake’s water quality and ecosystem will receive $4.33 million under the legislation. Currently, Cedar Lake’s degraded water quality has significantly decreased the aquatic ecosystems of the lake. Funding for the project will address dredging, erosion control, and the recreational capabilities of Cedar Lake. Congressman Visclosky also secured $984,000 to fund operations at the Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project along the Indiana Dunes. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted by harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and protect the beaches for future generations.
12.05.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky is supporting historic energy legislation to confront skyrocketing gas prices, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, strengthen our national security, create new economic opportunities and begin to reduce global warming. Visclosky announced his support for this legislation called the Energy Independence and Security Act, saying that it is an opportunity to bring gas prices down for the people of Northwest Indiana and make investments in our nation’s energy security. The legislation is set to pass later today. “With people in Northwest Indiana paying three dollars per gallon for gasoline, we must address the high cost of energy by investing in new energy technologies, new efficiency advancements, and through more home-grown energy alternatives,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. “Not only would this legislation reduce our dependence on foreign oil in the long-term, it would also save money for the people in Northwest Indiana, and create economic opportunities in the new energy industries that will fuel our nation’s economy.” Specifically, the legislation increases the efficiency of our vehicles, invests in American grown biofuels, requires that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources, and strengthens energy efficiency for a wide range of products, appliances, lighting and buildings to reduce energy costs to consumers. The energy bill repeals tax breaks for profit-rich oil companies, and invests that money in clean renewable energy and new American technologies.Strengthening our National Security by Reducing our Dependence on Foreign OilImproved Fuel Economy Standards for Cars and Trucks. The high price of gas demands groundbreaking provisions to increase fuel economy standard to 35 miles per gallon by 2020 for new cars and trucks. These provisions will save American families $700 to $1000 per year at the pump, with $22 billion in net consumer savings in 2020 alone. This is the first increase by Congress since 1975 – marking a significant advancement in our efforts to address our energy security. The bill ensures that fuel economy standard will be reached while offering flexibility to automakers, and ensuring that we keep American manufacturing jobs and continue domestic production of smaller vehicles. It will reduce oil consumption by 1.1 million gallons per day in 2020 (one-half of what we currently import from the Persian Gulf), and reduce greenhouse gases equal to taking 28 million of today's average cars and trucks off the road. This fuel efficiency standard is supported by environmentalists and the automobile industry.A Commitment to Homegrown Biofuels. The initiative includes an investment in American biofuels that will fuel our cars and trucks – with a robust increase in the Renewable Fuels Standard. The measure ensures that biodiesel and cellulosic sources are a key part of the increase. It includes critical environmental safeguards to ensure that the growth of homegrown fuels helps to reduce carbon emissions and does not degrade water or air quality or harm our lands and public health. The plan includes incentives to boost the production of biofuels and the number of Flex Fuel and other alternative fuel vehicles. Incentives for Hybrids. It establishes a plug-in hybrid/electric vehicle tax credit for individuals and encourages the domestic development and production of advanced technology vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles.Repealing Big Oil Giveaways to Invest in Renewable Energy. The measure repeals about $21 billion in tax subsidies for Big Oil, mainly including provisions from H.R. 6, which passed the House in January, and the President’s budget. It closes a loophole written into the international tax bill (H.R. 4520) and rolls back the 2005 Energy Bill tax break for geological and geophysical expenditures.Lower Energy Costs with Cleaner Energy, Greater Efficiency, and Smarter TechnologyElectricity from Clean Renewable Sources. This provision, which was contained in the House-passed bill, requires utility companies to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources -- such as wind power, biomass, wave, tidal, geothermal and solar -- by 2020. It permits utilities to meet up to 4 percent of their target through energy efficiency. A 15 percent Renewable Electricity Standard will reduce global warming emissions and lower energy prices and fossil fuel and natural gas consumption and is endorsed by a broad range of businesses, manufacturers, electric utilities, environmental, labor, farm, and faith-based organizations.Landmark Energy Efficiency to Bring Down Costs. It includes landmark energy efficiency provisions that would save consumers and businesses hundreds of billions of dollars through 2030. It would require more energy efficient appliances, such as dishwashers, clothes washers, refrigerators and freezers, and would speed up Energy Department action on new efficiency standards after six years of delay. It would require improved commercial and federal building energy efficiency, and assist consumers in improving the efficiency of their homes.Incentives for the Renewable Energy Economy. It strengthens and extends existing renewable energy tax credits, including solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydro, landfill gas and trash combustion, while creating new incentives for the use and production of renewable energy. It bolsters research on solar, geothermal, and marine renewable energy. The bill provides new clean renewable energy bonds for electric cooperatives and public power providers to install facilities that generate electricity from renewable resources.Create New Jobs and Reduce Global WarmingA Skilled Green Workforce. This package creates an Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Worker Training Program to train a quality workforce for “green” collar jobs -- such as solar panel manufacturer and green building construction worker -- created by federal renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. Major investments in renewable energy could create 3 million green jobs over 10 years.Small Businesses Leading in Renewable Energy. The bill increases loan limits to help small businesses develop energy efficient technologies and purchases; provides information to small businesses to reduce energy costs; and increases investment in small firms developing renewable energy solutions, recognizing the leadership of entrepreneurs in the alternative energy sector.Energy Efficiency Reduces Carbon Dioxide. The landmark fuel efficiency standard, renewable electricity standard and energy efficiency provisions will not only save consumers and businesses money, but will also significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions.Making Coal Part of the Solution. This initiative takes aggressive steps on carbon capture and sequestration to come up with a cleaner way to use coal – authorizing a nationwide assessment of geological formations capable of sequestering carbon dioxide underground and expansive research and development, including large-volume sequestration tests in a variety of different geological formations. It includes incentives for clean coal, which for the first time ever include a requirement for carbon sequestration. “Because there is no magic bullet when it comes to bringing down the price of gas and reducing our dependence on foreign oil, it is clear we must take a comprehensive approach to addressing our nation’s energy needs,” said Visclosky. “That is why this legislation pushes to increase American made energy, and works to improve efficiency and conservation programs.”
12.05.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has announced that individuals and businesses harmed by the flooding in Northwest Indiana during August 15-27 are eligible to apply for assistance programs, as part of the November 30 Major Disaster Declaration for the state of Indiana. “The severe flooding caused serious damage to individuals and businesses throughout Northwest Indiana, and I am pleased to announce these assistance programs,” said Visclosky. “I encourage those who have been harmed by the flooding to apply for the federal funds available to help recover from this disaster.”Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Individual Assistance: Individuals and households affected by the disaster can apply for Individual Assistance by calling the FEMA hotline at 1-800-621-3362. Applicants will need to provide their address, the date that they were affected, and other details regarding the disaster. More information is available at www.fema.gov.Small Business Administration (SBA) Loan Assistance Programs: Physical Damage Loans: For damage to homes, personal property and businesses, this loan program is available in Lake County. The deadline for application is January 29, 2008. Economic Injury Loans: For small businesses that have been financially harmed due to the disaster, this loan program is available in Lake, Porter, Jasper, and Newton Counties. The deadline for application is September 1, 2008. To begin the physical damage and/or the economic injury loan application process, contact the SBA Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955. More information is available at www.sba.gov.
10.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to bring about a construction solution regarding the U.S. Steel permit process, Congressman Pete Visclosky has called for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to hold a public hearing in Northwest Indiana. Earlier this month, the EPA issued objections to U.S. Steel’s draft permit, and Visclosky believes that bringing the EPA, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), U.S. Steel, and concerned citizens will provide a forum for people to focus on solutions. “Continued improvement of the quality of water in the Great Lakes system is in the interest of everyone in Northwest Indiana, the Chicago metropolitan area, the surrounding states, the nation, and the planet,” wrote Visclosky in the letter to the EPA. “Elected officials, policy makers, and industry must work together.” Visclosky believes that a public and transparent permit process is the best approach to ensuring the environmental quality of the Great Lakes. In his letter, Visclosky voiced his support for EPA and IDEM’s efforts to address this important issue. “I commend the current efforts of the EPA and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) to develop U.S. Steel Corporation’s NPDES permit and, more importantly, I appreciate your agency’s willingness to work with IDEM to revise the current draft permit.” [Full Visclosky Letter to EPA Below] October 17, 2007 Ms. Mary Gade Regional Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency - Region V 77 West Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 Dear Ms. Gade: I write in support of local environmental groups’ request for the U.S. Environmental Agency (EPA) to hold a public hearing in Northwest Indiana in response to the EPA’s concerns with the U.S. Steel Corporation, Gary Works National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. I commend the current efforts of the EPA and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) to develop U.S. Steel Corporation’s NPDES permit and, more importantly, I appreciate your agency’s willingness to work with IDEM to revise the current draft permit. As stipulated in recent correspondence, in which EPA notified the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) of its concerns to the draft NPDES permit, EPA outlined clearly the measures IDEM must take to satisfy the federal regulations. Regrettably some have seized the review process for the draft permit and have tried to manipulate it for political gain. Their rhetoric has focused upon generating political heat and ignored the cold fact of the ongoing participation of each regulatory agency – EPA and IDEM – to use this opportunity to reposition industry in a world that has become more environmentally conscious. Rather than simply shutter one of the largest steel facilities along the lakeshore, EPA and IDEM are working with U.S. Steel to ensure the permit reflects federal and state discharge limits, which will allow the company to be more competitive as it updates its facilities, while preventing further impairment to our waterways. It is important to note that due to the oversight of the EPA and IDEM, U.S. Steel is responsible for removing contaminated sediment from approximately five miles of the Grand Calumet River, pursuant to an agreement with EPA contained in a 1999 Clean Water Act Consent Decree and a 1998 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Corrective Action Order. This work is currently in progress and will ultimately be complemented by future remediation projects. To date, design plans for the west section of the river are being developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), and the City of Hammond. Further, the dredging of the Indiana Harbor and Ship Canal in East Chicago, under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in cooperation with EPA, IDEM and the East Chicago Waterway Management District, will remove contaminated sediment within the canal and harbor, and the Grand Calumet River Feasibility Study, once complete, will determine a course of action to improve this waterway. Whereas I share the concerns expressed by the public for the Great Lakes System, it would be remiss to not highlight the significant efforts underway to remediate the environmental degradation of a bygone era during which industry despoiled our surroundings with little or no regard. Continued improvement of the quality of water in the Great Lakes system is in the interest of everyone in Northwest Indiana, the Chicago metropolitan area, the surrounding states, the nation, and the planet. Elected officials, policy makers, and industry must work together. Press conferences and political grandstanding will not purify the waters of Lake Michigan, but sound policy, investment in new technology, and all parties working toward this shared goal, will. To that end, I would encourage the EPA to hold a public hearing, pursuant to 40 CFR 123.44(e), in Northwest Indiana to explain the reasoning for the concern with the draft permit and the steps by which it will work with IDEM on revisions to assure the draft permit complies or exceeds with the Clean Water Act and EPA regulations. It is imperative the communication between the regulatory agencies and the company be very public and transparent in order to allow the facts to be presented openly rather than being buried by sensational headlines. If I or my office may be of any assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me personally, or Mark Lopez, District Director, in my Merrillville District Office at 219-795-1844. Sincerely, Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress
09.24.2007	Washington, D.C. – Governor Mitch Daniels and Congressman Pete Visclosky today sent a joint letter to the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA) to request assistance with funding to complete the Little Calumet River Flood Control and Recreation project. Daniels and Visclosky have asked the RDA’s Board to provide $6 million in local match funds needed to complete the work. They suggested that the RDA consider an advance to be repaid over the next several years in state appropriations that are contained in the state’s budget. Since 1990, $119.2 million in federal funds have been obtained to support the levee construction, and there is $15 million in Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations to support construction activities. “When complete, the Little Calumet River Flood Control project will get people, homes and businesses out of the floodplain and eliminate their mandatory flood insurance payments – which is essentially an automatic tax cut for the people affected in Northwest Indiana,” said Congressman Visclosky. “I applaud Governor Daniels for thinking outside the box and collaborating on a creative solution to finish this important economic development project.” "Congressman Visclosky and I discussed the project while I was in Washington last week and quickly agreed that we would approach the RDA to seek the assistance needed to complete this project that will benefit so many people in Northwest Indiana," said Governor Daniels. A copy of the letter sent to RDA Chairman John Clark may be found at this link: https://www.in.gov/gov/pdfs/Little_Calumet_letter.pdf
09.10.2007	Washington, D.C. – With the sixth anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 tomorrow, Congressman Pete Visclosky paid tribute to the nearly 3,000 men and women who were killed during the tragedy by praising new legislation that protects the country from terrorism. The new 110th Congress enacted the “Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007” (HR 1), a sweeping new security bill which finally enacts the recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission into law. These recommendations were submitted to Congress by the 9/11 Commission back in July 2004. “One of the best ways the United States Congress can honor the memories of those who were killed in that horrific attack is to recommit ourselves to ensuring that such a terrible tragedy never happens again,” said Visclosky. “This 9/11 bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation that will be enacted by this new Congress, as it goes to the fundamental goal of protecting the citizens of our country.” The comprehensive, bipartisan legislation will do many things to make our nation stronger, and our cities and towns more secure, including: Requiring 100 percent scanning of U.S.-bound seaborne containers before they leave a foreign port within five years; Requiring 100 percent screening of cargo on passenger aircraft within three years; Investing in the interoperable communications equipment that first responders by creating a stand-alone grant program at DHS, authorized at $400 million a year; Quickly accelerates the installation of advanced (in-line) electronic explosive screening systems for checked baggage at the nation’s airports; Improves explosive detection at passenger screening checkpoints at airports; Provides that homeland security grants will be allocated primarily on the basis of risk; Authorizes more than $4 billion over the next four years to improve the security of mass transit, rail, and buses; Takes aggressive steps to better prevent terrorist travel; Improves the security of our critical infrastructure – such as our dams, our bridges, our power grids, and our telecommunications systems; Strengthens intelligence and information sharing with local law enforcement, including strengthening state and local intelligence “fusion” centers. “We learned on September 11, 2001, that our country must have better tools in place to prevent acts of terrorism, and I am pleased that this new Congress had taken action on the recommendations put forth by the 9/11 Commission,” said Visclosky.
08.15.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced his office will be holding Congressional Office Hours for residents of Indiana’s First Congressional District at libraries throughout Northwest Indiana. Members of the public are invited to meet with Visclosky’s Congressional staff on a range of federal issues, including: Assistance with federal agencies Questions regarding Social Security and Medicare Legislative information services Sharing constituent opinions on federal legislation “My office is here to serve the people of the First Congressional district, and these office hours allow residents to meet with members of my staff in a convenient location,” said Visclosky. “I hope people who need assistance with a federal issue will take full advantage of this opportunity.” The schedule for the initial office hours program is as follows: Tuesday, September 4, 2007 Gary Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 7:45 pm 220 West 5th Avenue, GaryWednesday, September 5, 2007 Cedar Lake Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 8:00 pm 10010 West 133rd Avenue, Cedar LakeTuesday, September 11, 2007 Newton County Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 8:00 pm 9444 North 315 West, Lake VillageWednesday, September 12, 2007 Jasper County Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 7:45 pm 208 West Susan Street, RensselaerTuesday, September 18, 2007 Munster Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 8:00 pm 8701 Calumet Avenue, MunsterWednesday, September 19, 2007 Portage Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 8:00 pm 2665 Irving Street, PortageTuesday, September 25, 2007 Benton County Public Library Office Hours from 5:00 – 7:00 pm 102 North Van Buren Avenue, FowlerWednesday, September 26, 2007 Hammond Public Library Office Hours from 6:00 – 8:00 pm 564 State Street, Hammond
08.07.2007	Washington, D.C. – At the request of U.S. Representatives Judy Biggert (R-13th-IL) and Pete Visclosky (D-1st-IN), scientists at Argonne National Laboratory and Purdue University Calumet have agreed to explore the application of emerging technologies that could address wastewater treatment challenges faced by BP and other entities along the Great Lakes. Biggert’s and Visclosky’s action came in response to ongoing concerns over EPA-permitted discharges into Lake Michigan. “The permits may allow it, but tomorrow’s technology should make it unnecessary,” said Biggert. “In Chicago, our lake is our treasure. It’s drinking water for 30 million Americans, it’s a driving force behind the Midwest’s economy,” said Biggert, a senior member of the Science and Technology Committee. “The time has come to stop the threats and finger-pointing and build consensus around innovative solutions that protect both our natural resources and our energy security.” “The Purdue Calumet Water Institute is a regional academic institution that provides expertise on water-quality issues, and Argonne National Laboratory is a world-renown energy technology facility,” said Visclosky. “This is a great opportunity for an independent third-party to apply emerging technologies to protect Lake Michigan.” On July 17, Biggert and other members of the Illinois Delegation met with Bob Malone, Chairman and President of BP America, to discuss a discharge permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. On August 1st, Visclosky, who has met personally with BP officials over the past several weeks, hosted an Indiana Delegation briefing with Indiana State officials as well as with Malone. The permit allows a BP facility in Whiting, Indiana to release 54 percent more ammonia and 35 percent more total suspended solids into Lake Michigan each day. Proponents maintain that the facility would expand domestic refining capacity at a time when Chicago-area consumers are paying the highest gas prices in the nation – an average of $3.29 per gallon. In response to public concerns, Biggert and several other Illinois legislators – including Reps. Mark Kirk, Rahm Emanuel, Jesse Jackson Jr., Peter Roskam, Danny Davis, Bobby Rush and Dan Lipinski – sent a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on July 19th, asking for a formal review of the permit and its potential impact on Lake Michigan. Although the U.S. EPA has not yet issued a formal response, the Chicago Tribune reported on July 31st that Stephen Johnson, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said, “In this case, it's my understanding that Indiana issued a permit that is fully compliant with the Clean Water Act.” Indiana officials also reportedly determined that the wastewater poses no risk to human or aquatic life. “Early indications suggest that the permit and the refinery are compliant with the law,” said Biggert. “But with emerging technology, it shouldn’t be necessary to permit more ammonia and mercury to be dumped into the lake. That means going beyond just determining what’s legal and what isn’t, and finding ways to do even better.” Following the Tribune report, Biggert contacted Bob Malone of BP and Robert Rosner, Director of Argonne National Laboratory, to ask if there are technical challenges that, if overcome, might reduce the need for additional discharges. The answer from both was an emphatic yes. Argonne National Laboratory, located in Biggert’s district, has an ongoing partnership with Purdue University Calumet to conduct interdisciplinary research on water quality and resource management. The partnership’s center, called the Purdue University Calumet Water Institute (PWI), is located in Congressman Visclosky’s district, just a short distance from BP’s refinery in Whiting. “The Purdue University Calumet Water Institute’s highly-qualified faculty and talented students are well-positioned to conduct this kind of advanced water research,” said Purdue Calumet Chancellor Howard Cohen. “We look forward to this opportunity to further develop our working relationships with industry and government and hopefully find some creative solutions to a very pressing issue.” “Argonne is a leading national research institution that continues to work with industry and academia to address regional and national energy and environmental issues,” said Rosner. “Our existing relationship with Purdue University Calumet will enhance our ability to identify and develop technologies that address these concerns.” “The people of Illinois and Indiana, BP, and the scientific community all have a strong interest in seeing this work,” said Biggert. “There’s no question that America needs to expand domestic energy production, but we must find long-term solutions that protect for the environment in the process.” After further discussion, Biggert and Visclosky asked Argonne and PWI to bring together a collaborative team of scientists and water experts to work with BP on exploring and reviewing emerging technologies that may improve waste management efficiency and help mitigate the impact of wastewater discharge on the Great Lakes. “Given our current energy crisis, we must find ways to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and I believe we can do that in an environmentally-friendly fashion,” said Visclosky, who is also the Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. While mercury filtration and water treatment will be a primary focus of the task force, other key challenges are already under discussion. In addition, the team intends to conduct a comparative analysis of related discharge issues to help policy makers better understand and address environmental concerns. “It’s not a first step, nor a last step,” said Biggert and Visclosky. “But it’s a step in the right direction. We are confident that, by bringing together some of our nation’s top minds, we can find innovative solutions for this facility. We may even set a new standard for the industry.”
08.04.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that anti-drug programs in Northwest Indiana will receive a $1 million boost, as part of Visclosky’s efforts to fight and prevent crime in Northwest Indiana. The funding will go toward the Indiana National Guard’s Drug Demand Reduction Program, and provide support to several drug-prevention programs for area students in Northwest Indiana. “This funding for anti-drug programs in Northwest Indiana is an investment in our community, in our children, and in our future,” said Visclosky. “The Drug Demand Reduction Program offers educational programs that will prevent students from using drugs, and offers positive alternatives for our area youth.” As part of the anti-drug programs, the Indiana National Guard provides drug education to over 20,000 elementary, middle school, and high school students throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District, with over 25 schools in Lake County alone. The primary drug education program, known as "Stay on Track" is an interactive program that involves students, teachers, parents, and guardsmen, and helps students develop the skills needed to make smart decisions about their health and their future. Additional programs to “Stay on Track” include programs such as “Checkmate Drugs,” “Learning for Life Program,” and “Mobile Team Challenge.” The funding is part of the FY 2008 Defense Appropriations bill that the House is set to pass today. “Because of Congressman Visclosky’s efforts, more students in Northwest Indiana will say no to drugs,” said Lt. Col. Joseph Luckett, who overseas the Drug Demand Reduction Program. “The Indiana National Guard is better able to serve our communities because Congressman Visclosky is part of the team dedicated to combating illegal drug use.” In addition to the anti-drug funding, last week Visclosky announced that he had successfully secured funding in a separate House bill for additional law-enforcement programs. These crime fighting programs include $600,000 for technology upgrades at the Lake County Sheriff’s office and $300,000 for an Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) for the six police departments of Hammond, Gary, East Chicago, Whiting, Highland and Hobart, and $480,000 for a shot-spotter program in Gary. Also included in the previous legislation is $30 million for the nation-wide Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program, which Congressman Visclosky authored in 1997.
07.26.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced he has secured $2.2 million in federal funding for crime-fighting and law-enforcement programs in Northwest Indiana. In addition to these local initiatives, Visclosky’s nation-wide Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program will receive $30 million to assist law enforcement agencies purchase bulletproof vests throughout the country. Visclosky secured the funding for these programs as part of the FY 2008 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act, which is set to pass today. “Northwest Indiana law-enforcement officials serve on the front lines of keeping our communities safe and secure,” said Visclosky. “The funds will help law enforcement agencies and protect the people of Northwest Indiana through crime-fighting programs such as a shot-spotter technology, a joint fingerprinting system, and a wireless communications system.”Several Law Enforcement Programs Come from Visclosky’s Good Government Initiative Included in the legislation is funding for several law enforcement programs that were identified in Visclosky’s Good Government Initiative, which is an effort to maximize government operations while saving taxpayer dollars. Specifically, the Lake County Sheriff will receive $600,000 for two major and much needed technological upgrades. A majority of the funds will be for the Wireless Network Project, which will serve as the fundamental vehicle by which the Lake County Sheriff Department, Fire Department, EMA and EMS will establish an interoperable communication system, which was a regional recommendation of the Good Government Initiative. The funds will be used for the purchase of data sharing software and interoperable wireless communications devices. The remainder of the $600,000 will be used to purchase digital photography equipment and software for the Lake County Sheriff’s Crime Lab, which was also a recommendation of the Good Government Initiative. According to the initiative, the current photography equipment in the lab is over 20 years old and current processing of photos is inefficient. Another law-enforcement tool that will receive funding, and is part of the Good Government Initiative is the Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), which will receive $300,000. In an effort to increase the safety of Northern Lake County Indiana, six police departments; Hammond, Gary, East Chicago, Whiting, Highland and Hobart, have agreed to create an integrated booking system that electronically captures, prints and transmits fingerprints and data. The implementation of this system will allow these departments to share their resources and to more efficiently identify and arrest criminals. The funds provided will be used to purchase and install the equipment in the six departments. The Gary Police Department will receive $480,000 to complete Phase IV of the Shot Spotter Gunfire Detection System by purchasing additional sensors. The Gary Police Department will use the system to deal with gun-related crime, including a significant number that are directly related to drug trafficking and gang activity. Also included in the legislation is $100,000 for the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” Program. This program, which is based in Gary and is part of the Department of Justice’s Juvenile Justice Program, provides programming activities for youth between the ages of 13-18 years old. The goal of the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” program is to provide a positive, structured environment in which the participants work to improve academic achievement, social skills and emotional maturity. In the Science portion of the legislation, Congressman Visclosky was able to secure $720,000 for Valparaiso University to help purchase a dual-polarization detection Doppler weather radar system. This advanced radar system will be a valuable teaching tool for the University’s Meteorology department, and will allow the university to provide up to the minute weather information to entities in Northwest Indiana and the surrounding areas. Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program Receives $30 Million Authorization Also included in this appropriations bill is $30 million for the Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program, which Congressman Visclosky authored in 1997. The program works with local law enforcement agencies throughout the country to provide funding for the purchase of bulletproof vests. The purpose of the program is to save the lives of law enforcement officers engaged in local crime-fighting activities. “The Bulletproof Vest Program provides assistance to the brave men and women who protect our neighborhoods,” said Visclosky. “The continued funding of this program will make it easier for local law enforcement agencies to purchase bulletproof vests.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program is administered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), and partner governments must show their own commitment to improving the safety of their law enforcement officers by providing at least 50 percent of the cost of each vest purchased under the program. Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Program was signed into law on June 16, 1998 and has been reauthorized through fiscal year 2009.
07.24.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced he has secured $7.25 million in federal funding for transportation infrastructure in Northwest Indiana, including $5 million for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District’s (NICTD) efforts to continue to invest in commuter rail throughout Northwest Indiana. The funding for all of the transportation projects will create new economic opportunities and improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana, according to Visclosky. “From commuter rail, to road improvements, to new recreational trails, the funding for these projects are an investment in building the infrastructure that will allow the people of Northwest Indiana to have access to good-paying jobs and an improved quality of life,” said Visclosky. The funding for the Northwest Indiana projects are part of the FY 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which was passed by the House today. Investing in Commuter Rail In the legislation, NICTD will receive $5 million for the South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Investment Plan. The South Shore Line is a major contributor to the economic engine of Northwest Indiana, operating more than 12,800 trains and carrying more than 4.2 million passengers annually to the good-paying jobs and economic opportunities in Chicago. The South Shore is uniquely positioned in the heart of Chicago’s Loop within easy access to approximately 500,000 jobs, nearly doubling the job base of Lake and Porter counties. For his part, Visclosky sees this funding part as part of a larger strategy to not only improve the existing rail line, but also to make progress on the expansion of the South Shore. “The South Shore Rail Line is part of building a new economy in Northwest Indiana, and we have an opportunity to enhance and expand this economic engine,” said Visclosky. “This funding will help lay the foundation for an expanded rail service by first improving the existing line. In addition to this federal support for the South Shore, a long-term non-federal funding source should be identified to ensure the expansion moves ahead quickly.” “NICTD is pleased to see a continued federal investment for our rail services. This funding is critical to ensuring that key infrastructure is improved as well as moving forward with the West Lake Expansion to meet the growing travel demands in Northern Indiana,” said Gerald Hanas, General Manager of NICTD. “Congressman Visclosky is a true champion of transit and his support in Washington is making a positive impact in Northwest Indiana.” Specifically, this funding will enable NICTD to continue with the designing and building of new centralized traffic control and power distribution systems. These two projects will improve operational flexibility and reliability; while the signal project will have the added benefit of increasing track capacity to accommodate escalating demand. The signal project will provide full, centralized traffic control of the passenger line using state-of-the-art microprocessor-based systems to support the signal network.Northwest Indiana Transportation and Recreation Projects Also included in the legislation is $1.1 million to align 45th Street and Calumet Avenue in Munster. By allowing this east-west thoroughfare to be aligned, traffic congestion and train interruptions will be greatly reduced. To date, including the funding in this legislation, Visclosky has secured $1.6 million for this project. Indiana District 12 State Representative Mara Candelaria Reardon, said the project is a welcome initiative. “When pedestrian access, air quality, public safety, and economic development can be improved, it is an indication of a well planned redevelopment activity. This effort is consistent with Congressman Visclosky's continued vision of improving the quality of life in Northwest Indiana.” Visclosky also secured $400,000 for improvements and updates to bike trails in the Town of Highland. The funding will be used to provide lighting and other improvements for the Highland portion of the Erie Lackawanna Trail, a multi-town bike trail. In South Haven, Visclosky was able to secure $300,000 for sidewalks and streetscape improvements in this Porter County community. This funding would be used to construct sidewalks near schools, parks and other youth-oriented facilities in the community. “In South Haven, we have parks, schools and other facilities for children, but we don’t have enough sidewalks,” said Jeremy Rivas, the Chairman of the South Haven Safety Task Force. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s efforts, South Haven will now have additional funds for sidewalks in areas where our children play and ride their bikes.” Also included in the legislation is $250,000 to go to the Town of Winfield to study improvements to 109th Avenue. With a new I-65 interchange planned for 109th Avenue, the funding will be used by the Town of Winfield to study what the town can do to improve a three mile stretch of 109th Avenue. Visclosky also secured $200,000 for Rohrman Park in Schererville. This funding will be used for park expansion and improvements, including improvements to the athletic fields in the park.
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $850,000 for a range of educational initiatives in Northwest Indiana, including after-school programs for K-12 students, funding for an urban academy geared for college bound students, and support for Indiana University Northwest’s (IUN) Health Research Institute. “Access to high-quality education, whether for college-bound students, after-school K-12 programs, or research institutions, is the foundation for future success in life,” said Visclosky. “These funds will help advance a full range of important educational programs in Northwest Indiana.” The funding comes from the FY 2008 Labor, Health and Education Appropriations Bill, which is set to be passed by the House later this evening. Funding for the programs will be made available after the legislation is signed into law by the President. Specifically, the Indiana University School of Medicine in Gary will receive $400,000 for facilities and equipment at the newly formed Northwest Indiana Health Research Institute, which advances new knowledge and information about the health and care of urban populations. The goal of the Institute is to conduct research projects of various kinds, including the capacity to conduct epidemiological studies and other surveys. The Northwest Indiana Health Research Institute will research health problems associated with urban living and treatment strategies appropriate to those populations. Examples include epidemiological and health disparity studies of impacted sub-groups, behavioral analysis, disease specific studies pertaining to asthma, cardiovascular and pulmonary health as well as cancer incidence and type. “One of the key initiatives of Indiana University Northwest’s vision is to fund research that advances community health and well-being,” said IUN Chancellor Bruce Bergland. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s leadership, IUN’s Health Research Institute will provide high-quality educational opportunities for our students and serve as positive health resource for Northwest Indiana.” Visclosky also secured $250,000 for Purdue University Calumet to help fund start-up expenses and equipment for an urban academy focused on technology and science with a college-bound curriculum. Purdue University Calumet, with the support of the Civil City of Hammond, will create an urban academy as an alternative educational opportunity for Hammond residents. The academy would begin as a middle school focused on technology and science with a college-bound curriculum, with the academy adding grade levels each year until it becomes a middle/high school. The academy would serve approximately 90 students per grade, and parental involvement would be a prerequisite for application. “A high-quality education is vital for Hammond to attract and retain the families, jobs, and economic opportunities we need to be successful,” said Hammond Mayor Tom McDermott, Jr. “By partnering with Purdue Cal and Congressman Visclosky’s office, the students of Hammond will have access to new educational opportunities and an improved quality of life.” “I applaud Congressman Visclosky for his commitment to high-quality education in Northwest Indiana,” said Purdue Calumet University Chancellor Howard Cohen. “These funds allow Purdue Calumet to advance our goal of partnering with the community to bring positive change and economic growth to our area.” Visclosky also secured $200,000 for after school and summer programs at the YWCA of Gary. The Gary YWCA will offer an after school and summer program, called Kids Café, designed to provide a safe haven for children and prevent them from engaging in risky behavior. The program aims to serve youth throughout Northwest Indiana by offering activities designed to promote physical, mental and emotional development. Activities include tutoring, mentoring, arts and crafts, swimming lessons, golf instruction, tennis, weight management and computer training. “I would like to thank State Senator Earline Rogers for bringing this important program to my attention, as it has a real impact on improving the quality of life for the people of Gary,” said Visclosky. “The YWCA Kid’s Café program plays an integral role in the lives of Gary residents, especially the young people,” said State Senator Rogers. “The YWCA has been exemplary in providing young people with opportunities to develop reading and math skills, social interaction, and other positive initiatives that add value to Gary.”
07.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $45.68 million to address critical environmental, flood control and water infrastructure projects throughout Northwest Indiana. The funding for the projects is part of the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives today. Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, says these investments in environmental, flood control, and infrastructure projects will have a lasting positive impact on the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana. “The funding for these projects provides a foundation for attracting new economic development and new good-paying jobs to Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “In order to keep and attract people to live, work and operate businesses in Northwest Indiana, we must have flood control infrastructure in place, along with clean bodies of water that will support the area’s economy.” The funding for these projects comes from the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which was passed by the House today. The funding will be made available once the legislation is signed into law by the President.Environmental Infrastructure The Indiana Harbor in East Chicago will also receive $18.07 million to continue construction of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF). In May of 2005, Visclosky announced that the federal government will pay the full amount for the CDF, relieving East Chicago taxpayers of the $40 million local expense. Specifically, this funding will go towards a continuation of the air monitoring program, operation of the groundwater treatment plant, and construction activities for the facility. “The full federal funding of this project makes it possible to complete the project sooner, save local taxpayer dollars, and ensure the health and safety of the people of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. The Indiana Harbor will also receive $760,000. This funding will support operations, condition surveys, and support of the CDF administration. The legislation also includes $910,000 for the Grand Calumet River. The funding will complete the feasibility phase studying water quality and aquatic improvements. Visclosky secured $5.48 million for operations and maintenance at the Burns Waterway Harbor International Port. This funding will allow for navigation dredging in critical areas within the harbor, complete repairs to the North Breakwater deferred from previous year, and complete condition surveys of channel, underwater reef and breakwater. To date, including this funding, Visclosky has secured $33.2 million for this project. The Burns Waterway Small Boat Harbor will also receive $60,000 for operations and maintenance. Flood Control and Water Resources In the legislation, Visclosky secured $15 million for the Little Calumet River flood control project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will help protect citizens and property for years to come, preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. Including the funding in this legislation, Visclosky has helped to secure $134.2 million to date for the Little Calumet Flood Control project. “To protect people’s homes, businesses, and well-being, this flood-control project cannot be completed soon enough,” said Visclosky. A project to restore Cedar Lake’s water quality and ecosystem will receive $4.4 million under the legislation. Currently, Cedar Lake’s degraded water quality has significantly decreased the aquatic ecosystems of the lake. Funding for the project will address dredging, erosion control, and the recreational capabilities of Cedar Lake. Congressman Visclosky also secured $1 million to fund operations at the Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project along the Indiana Dunes. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted by harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and reverse its effects to protect the beaches for future generations. In addition to these water projects in the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, the bill includes $17 million in energy-related initiatives for Northwest Indiana, which Congressman Visclosky previously announced.
07.16.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $17 million for Northwest Indiana science and technology initiatives, many of which to help confront the country’s energy crisis. According to Visclosky, the funding also allows Northwest Indiana to be home to cutting-edge technology work that is crucial to the long-term success of the region and the nation. “This funding shows that Northwest Indiana can be home to the cutting-edge, high-technology work needed to address some of our nation’s most important issues, including confronting the energy crisis and advancing scientific research and technology,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “These investments will also help create new economic opportunities in Northwest Indiana.” The funding for these projects comes from the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which will be considered by the House tomorrow. The funding will be made available after the legislation is signed into law by the President. Northwest Indiana Taking the Lead to Confront Energy Crisis The Town of Munster is set to receive $2 million to equip and construct a methane gas cogeneration plant, which would help develop new energy alternatives by converting methane from waste and refuse into electricity that could go into the local power grid. The project provides an opportunity for local and federal governments to work together to develop local sources of energy. “The residents of Munster are lucky to have Congressman Visclosky as our advocate,” said Helen Brown, Munster Town Councilwoman. “The realization of this project will allow Munster to benefit from generation of power from methane gas that would have been wasted, using federal investment instead of local tax dollars. We truly thank him for his support.” Also included in the legislation is $1.5 million for a Bio-Energy Cooperative ethanol-biomass fuel plant at Fair Oaks. This funding would go toward the development of an ethanol plant that will use cellulosic energy sourced from environmentally treated animal waste. The Jupiter Oxy Fuel Technology Project will receive $4 million to continue research, testing, and evaluation of coal types in oxy-fuel burners, and an integrated pollution removal process. This technology burns fossil fuels in a cleaner fashion, and separates out pollutants. “In order for our country to become less reliant on foreign oil, we must invest in our existing energy resources,” said Visclosky. “These projects demonstrate that municipalities, our rural communities, and our existing natural resources can all be leveraged to become more energy independent.”Investing in Science and New Technologies in Northwest Indiana Visclosky’s legislation also makes investments in local science and technology initiatives. The Northwest Indiana Computational Grid, which is a joint effort between Purdue University Calumet, Purdue University, Notre Dame, and the Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory, will receive $6 million to continue developing a scalable, high speed, high bandwidth, science driven computational grid that enables cutting-edge scientific research. Including the funding in this legislation, to date Visclosky and Senator Lugar have secured $15 million for the Northwest Indiana Computational Grid. “The Computational Grid is a perfect example of how educational institutions can partner with federal initiatives to create the infrastructure that will build a new economy,” said Visclosky. “The end result of this effort will make Northwest Indiana home to world-class technology, and home to world-class economic opportunity.” Also included in the legislation is $1 million for a cyber security program operated by Cimcor to implement an information security system at the Department of Energy. The security system allows computer servers to detect when they have been modified in an unauthorized manner, and will automatically repair those unauthorized changes. “Computer technology is always changing, and so are security threats. Having proper information security is crucial to any organization,” said Robert Johnson, President of Merrillville-based CIMCOR. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s leadership, our Northwest Indiana company has an opportunity for our new technology to work with the Department of Energy to help ensure the safety and security of their information.” The Purdue Calumet Inland Water Institute will receive $500,000 under the legislation. The Water Institute will continue its research program and advance the mission of the institute, which is to conduct research, offer educational programs in water resources, and assist the private sector in economic development opportunities for water quality, efficiency and security. Including the funding in this year’s legislation, Visclosky has secured $2 million for the Water Institute. Also in the legislation, the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana will receive $2 million for its expansion. This funding was previously announced when the legislation was approved out of the full Appropriations Committee.
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has secured $2 million for the expansion of the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana (PTCNWI), bringing the total amount Visclosky has secured for the expansion to $2.231 million and enough to complete the project. With the tech center nearly filled, Visclosky’s support of the expansion will provide the resources necessary to continue to attract and retain high-technology jobs that are crucial to the success of Northwest Indiana. “Since opening in the beginning of 2005, the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana has been a magnet for cutting-edge research and development,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “The expansion of the incubator will offer opportunities for more technology companies, more good-paying jobs and more economic diversification that will improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana.” The $2 million in funding comes from the FY 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which was approved by the Appropriations Committee today and will be considered by the House early next week. Earlier this year, Visclosky announced that he had secured $231,000 for the PTCNWI expansion as part of the Financial Services Appropriations Bill. Funding for the expansion will be made available after the legislation is signed into law. Visclosky has a history of supporting the high-tech facility, having secured the $6.9 million necessary for its construction. The tech center opened in January of 2005 with seven high-tech residents. Today, according to the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana, the facility is home to 14 high-tech firms, engaged in pharmaceutical sciences, fuel-cell technology, and security technology industries. In addition, the facility has six affiliate companies. “The Purdue Technology Center will reach 90 percent occupancy by the end of this year and is projected to be completely full by the end of the second quarter of 2008,” said Joseph B. Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation. “Congressman Visclosky’s support of the expansion has been a cornerstone in providing the necessary resources to complete the expansion of our center in Northwest Indiana.” Expansion plans include an additional 12,000 square feet to provide space for the recruitment of new firms and the expansion of existing firms within the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana. In addition to the new area, the center will provide a total of 60,000 square feet for new and expanding companies. Officials of the center anticipated the possible expansion when they planned the technology center, and will be able accommodate the additional square feet upon the existing site.
06.27.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has secured $2.6 million for lakeshore, infrastructure and restoration projects throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District. The funding is part of the FY 2008 Interior Appropriations Bill that the House passed today, and includes $2 million for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore’s (IDNL) Land Acquisition program, $500,000 for water infrastructure improvements in Merrillville, and $100,000 for restoration of St. Joseph’s Theatre at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer. “The funding for these projects will not only help improve the quality of life for the people of Northwest Indiana, but also will help local governments offset the cost of advancing these critical initiatives,” said Visclosky. Investing in Our Lakeshore The $2 million for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will help the program tasked with preserving and restoring Indiana’s lakeshore. The funding for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore fits into Visclosky’s vision for investing in Lake Michigan to improve the area’s economic and recreational opportunities. “Everyday, our position on Lake Michigan becomes more valuable,” said Visclosky, who has championed lakeshore restoration through his Marquette Plan. “When we invest in the future of our lakeshore, we are investing in the future of Northwest Indiana.” In order for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to realize its authorized boundaries, it is necessary to acquire additional land. Overall, the total number of remaining acres within the National Lakeshore boundary that has yet to be acquired totals approximately 4,300 acres. Once the appropriations bill is signed into law, the total amount of funding for land acquisition at the IDNL that Visclosky has secured will be $31.368 million. The federal government has not appropriated funds for land acquisition within the National Lakeshore since 2003. Garry Traynham, Acting Superintendent of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, says the funding comes at a critical time for the organization. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will have funding to continue acquiring critical parcels of land, especially hardship properties. The purchase of these congressionally authorized lands will allow the National Lakeshore to realize its full potential in preserving the Indiana Dunes.” IDNL was authorized by Congress in 1966, and runs for nearly 15 miles along southern Lake Michigan, bordered by Michigan City, Indiana on the east, and Gary on the west. In 1986 and 1992, Congressman Visclosky authored legislation to expand the Dunes, resulting in the addition of more than 2,000 acres to the National Lakeshore. The park contains approximately 15,000 acres, 2,182 of which are located in Indiana Dunes State Park and managed by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. In addition to the funding for the Dunes, Visclosky was also able to secure $500,000 for water and sewer infrastructure improvements in Merrillville. Shawn Pettit, President of the Merrillville Town Council, says, “This funding will help to offset the cost of installing water mains to areas of the town currently have wells intermingling with the septic system. Because of Congressman Visclosky’s leadership, Merrillville will be able to improve our infrastructure, we will improve the health of our citizens, and we will spend less local money to do so.” The Interior Appropriations Bill also includes $100,000 for the restoration of St. Joseph’s Theatre at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer. St. Joseph’s President, Ernest R. Mills III, said the support at the federal level is greatly appreciated. “The theatre is a remarkable facility. We are grateful for the help and support of Congressman Visclosky in securing funding.”
06.19.2007	Washington, D.C. – Under a new bill introduced by Congressman Pete Visclosky to strengthen American jobs, corporations that continue to send their jobs overseas will not be eligible to receive federal grants, loans, and subsidies. Visclosky’s goal for the legislation, called the “Fighting for American Jobs Act” (H.R. 2759) is to reduce the number of American jobs that are shipped to other countries. “In Northwest Indiana, our steel and manufacturing industries have been hurt because jobs have been shipped to other countries, and the outsourcing of jobs has also spread to white-collar technology jobs. When American jobs are shipped overseas, the results cause instability to our families, communities, and our country’s economy,” said Visclosky. Visclosky’s “Fighting for American Jobs Act” (H.R. 2759) would prohibit businesses that lay-off a greater percentage of their United States workers than workers in other countries from receiving any Federal assistance. The legislation would require businesses that receive federal grants, loans and assistance to 1) provide the number of employees, both in the U.S. and overseas, and 2) provide the percentage of the workforce that has been laid off or forced to retire each year, both in the U.S. and overseas. The legislation would prohibit federal assistance to a business that lays off a greater percentage of workers in the U.S. than overseas within the previous year. To date, the federal government does not keep an accurate accounting of federal subsidies that go to companies that outsource American jobs. “Our tax dollars, in the form of contracts, loans, and subsidies, should not go to companies that engage in outsourcing,” said Visclosky. “This legislation will provide accurate information on companies’ off-shoring activities, it will strengthen the American economy, and it will ensure tax dollars don’t help subsidize companies that engage in outsourcing.” Visclosky introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress, but it was not enacted into law.
06.06.2007	Washington, D.C. – With gas prices hovering at record levels and our nation engaged in an energy crisis, Congressman Pete Visclosky is using his position as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development to address our nation’s energy needs in a comprehensive fashion. In his Energy and Water Appropriations bill, Visclosky has boosted funding for investments in biofuels, vehicle technologies, renewable energies and energy efficiency programs. The bill was approved by the full Appropriations Committee today, and is slated to be considered by the House of Representatives next week. “In Northwest Indiana, the high cost of gas is cutting into the pocketbooks of hard working families, and nationally we are facing an energy crisis because we are dependent on foreign sources of oil,” said Visclosky. “With this legislation, we are taking immediate steps to invest in new technologies and develop new sources of energy. While these energy investments won’t make gas prices drop overnight, they are part of a comprehensive effort to make us less reliant on imported oil, and to strengthen our national and economic security.” One of the reasons for our current energy crisis is the past lack of investment in energy. By fiscal year 2006, adjusted for inflation, government funding for energy research, development, and demonstration had fallen to less than one-quarter of its 1980 levels. Visclosky’s Energy and Water Appropriations Bill aims to make energy research and development a greater national priority with the following investments: Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy: $1.9 billion, $638 million above the President’s request and $400 million above 2007 to reduce our dependence on foreign oil in a way that cuts greenhouse gas emissions. Solar Energy: $200 million, $40.6 million over 2007 and $51.7 billion above the President’s request for research, development and demonstration projects to make solar energy affordable. Biofuels: $250 million, $50.3 million above 2007 and $70.7 million above the President’s request for research and development of alternative fuels such as corn based and cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel. Vehicle Technology: $235.4 million, $47.4 million above 2007 and $59.3 million above the President’s request to collaborate with industry on developing technologies for improved fuel efficiency such as improved batteries or engines that burn clean diesel. Energy Efficient Buildings: $146.5 million, $42.1 million above 2007 and $60 million above the President’s request for research into building and industrial conservation technologies that would reduce energy demand. This includes developing affordable, net-zero energy use homes. Weatherization Grants: $245.6 million, $101.6 million above the President’s request level and $41 million above 2007, for insulation and other cost-effective energy conservation measures, restoring the program to its 2006 funding level. Hydropower: $22 million, not funded in 2007 or in the President’s request, to research new ways of generating power from water flow. (this is on top of the $95 million for upgrades to existing hydropower dams funded under the Army Corps) Geothermal Energy: $44.3 million, $39.3 million above 2007 and eliminated in the President’s request. Fossil Energy: $708.8 million, $142 million above the President’s request and $116.2 million above 2007 for: demonstration of technology that captures carbon exhaust; improvements to existing coal power plants that were zeroed in the request; and the FutureGen initiative to create the world's first zero-emissions fossil fuel plant. Office of Science: $4.516 billion, $116.2 million above the President’s request and $716.8 million above 2007 for basic scientific research, supporting 3,500 additional researchers and allowing almost all of the science facilities to operate at maximum capacity. Climate Change Science: $150 million, $20 million above the President’s request and $24 million above 2007 for research into Climate Change including: modeling using state-of-the-art super computers; monitoring radiation in the atmosphere; and long-term experiments on the impact of increased carbon dioxide levels on forests and other ecosystems. Energy Basic Research: $208 million, $30 million above the President’s request and $35 million above 2007 for research into improving technology for energy storage and generation. Nuclear Energy: $639.2 million, $232.5 million above the President’s request and $324.5 million above 2007, including funding for a Next Generation Nuclear Power Plant that will use safer, more efficient technology and for the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility. (Not including funding for the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP).
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. – With gas prices at all-time highs throughout Northwest Indiana and across the nation, the House of Representatives passed legislation today known as the Federal Price Gouging Prevention Act (HR 1252), co-sponsored by Congressman Pete Visclosky, to crack down on companies that engage in gas-price gouging. Visclosky, who co-sponsored similar legislation during the last session of Congress, said that rising gas prices have cut into the pocketbooks of residents of Northwest Indiana, and he hopes Congress will continue to work to lower gas prices. “While the people of Northwest Indiana pay record prices for gas prices, oil companies continue to rake in outrageous profits,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “Addressing gas price gouging is the first step we must take to lower the cost of gasoline. To get out, and stay out of this energy crisis, the U.S. must develop a comprehensive policy that creates more affordable energy, reduces our dependence on foreign oil, and invests in alternative energy sources." The anti-price gouging legislation Visclosky co-sponsored gives the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy, applicable to gasoline, oil, natural gas, home heating oil, crude oil, and propane. Under the bill, the Justice Department could impose criminal penalties of up to $150 million on corporations, and fines of up to $2 million and jail sentences of up to 10 years for individuals. This would apply during a national emergency and would crack down on companies charging unconscionable and excessive prices. In addition, the bill would provide the FTC with the authority to bring greater transparency to oil and gas markets, and direct penalties from price gougers to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Visclosky also supported bipartisan legislation passed by the House yesterday to authorize the Justice Department to take legal action against OPEC state-controlled entities that participate in conspiracies to limit the supply, or fix the price, of oil. The legislation (HR 2264) makes clear that OPEC and other nations are exempt from the provisions of Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act if those governments are acting in a commercial capacity and are engaged in price-fixing and other anticompetitive activities. It authorizes but does not mandate lawsuits in U.S. federal court against oil cartel members by the Justice Department. Visclosky believes we should not continue to stand by and watch OPEC, which accounts for more than two-thirds of global oil production and about 65% of the oil traded internationally, dictate the price of our gasoline without any recourse. It is time to put our antitrust laws to work against the OPEC cartel, like we would against any other international cartel that is fleecing American consumers. With Memorial Day and the start of the summer driving season only a few weeks away, Northwest Indiana drivers are paying a heavy price for the fact that the Bush Administration and the previous Congress failed to enact a comprehensive energy strategy. This lack of energy policy has led to the current record-high prices people are being forced to pay at the pump. If the Republican-led Congress had enacted anti-price gouging legislation when it was first proposed 18 months ago, there would be laws on the books today against gouging and excess profits. According to AAA Fuel Gauge Report, Indiana families are paying near-record $3.41 up 144% from when President Bush took office. Last year, families paid $1,000 more on average for gasoline than in 2001, and each additional 10 cents per gallon of gasoline adds $14 billion to America’s annual gasoline bill, according to the Government Accountability Office (GAO). What’s more, these skyrocketing prices come at a time when the six largest oil companies announced $30 billion in profits for the first quarter of 2007. This is on top of the $125 billion in record profits they made in 2006. Visclosky supported legislation in the in the first month of the 110th Congress to roll back $14 billion dollars in taxpayer subsidies for Big Oil companies, believing that the current energy crisis is not the time to continue to subsidize oil company profits. “The high price of gas cuts into our nation’s economic stability, and compromises our national security,” said Visclosky. Visclosky also believes in order to truly address the energy crisis facing our nation, a substantial investment must be made in the alternative energies that will allow the U.S. to produce affordable, home-grown energy and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. As the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Visclosky has been a leader in Congress for investment in renewable energies, efficiency programs, new technologies, and biofuels. Through his subcommittee, Visclosky boosted funding for Vehicle Technologies to $235 million, and funding for biomass research to $250 million. “The United States is in energy crisis that needs to be addressed in a comprehensive fashion,” said Visclosky. “The people of Northwest Indiana need immediate relief at the gas pump, and the nation must also make new investments in American energy and innovative technologies to ensure our long-term success.”
05.22.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky will host a Veteran’s Listening Session on Wednesday, May 30, from 2:30 – 3:30 pm at the Adam Benjamin VA Clinic, and will make a special presentation of the Congressional Gold Medal to Tuskegee Airman and Northwest Indiana resident, Quentin Smith. During World War II, Quentin Smith served our nation as a member of the Tuskegee Airmen, an elite, all African-American Fighter Group. On March 29th of this year, the President and the United States Congress awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, which is the highest civilian honor awarded by Congress, to about 300 Members of the Tuskegee Airmen who could attend the ceremony in Washington, D.C. Mr. Smith could not attend the event in Washington, D.C., but given his honorable service to our country, and his membership in the Tuskegee Airmen, Congressman Visclosky will present the same honorary medal that was conferred to those Airmen in attendance in Washington, D.C. “I am honored to have the opportunity to present Quentin Smith with the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Visclosky. “Mr. Smith served our nation with great distinction, and I am happy he and the Tuskegee Airmen have received the recognition they so rightfully earned.” The Congressional Gold Medal presented that day will be on display for all to see at the Smithsonian Air & Space Museum, and each Tuskegee Airman attending the ceremony received their own personal medal to commemorate the occasion. Also at the event, a representative from Senator Richard Lugar’s office will also present Mr. Smith with a U.S. flag. Congressman Pete Visclosky’s Veterans Listening Session with Congressional Gold Medal Presentation to Tuskegee Airman & NWI Resident, Quentin Smith: When: Wednesday, May 30th, 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm Where: The Adam Benjamin, Jr. VA Outpatient Clinic, Multi-Purpose Room, #238, 9330 South Broadway, Crown Point
05.21.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky will be hosting his annual Military Academy Night for prospective students interested in attending one of the five United States Military Academies on Tuesday, May 29, 2007 from 6:00 – 8:30 pm at the NiSource Cafeteria located at 801 East 86th Avenue in Merrillville, Indiana. Congressman Visclosky will be on hand to welcome the prospective candidates. “It is always an honor for me to nominate our future leaders to these great institutions,” said Visclosky. “Academy Night is a great opportunity for bright young Northwest Indiana residents to learn about the opportunities our military academies offer.” The informational session is open to high school freshman, sophomores and juniors, along with parents, from the First Congressional District who are interested in learning about educational opportunities and receiving application information at the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London In addition to receiving information on the military academies, attendees will have the opportunity to talk directly with representatives of the service academies as well as the local academy board. Attendees will also hear a student perspective from Mr. Daniel Briggs, who will be attending the West Point Preparatory School in the fall, as well as parent perspectives from Councilman Lance Huish and Mrs. Lisa Huish.
05.18.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and U.S. Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) have joined together for the second year in a row to host a job fair on Saturday, June 16, 2007, from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the Celebrity West Ballroom at the Radisson Hotel at Star Plaza in Merrillville, Indiana. The Radisson is located near the intersection of I-65 and U.S. 30. “We are very excited to join together again to host the Job Fair,” said Senator Lugar and Congressman Visclosky. “This is a great opportunity to connect the people of Northwest Indiana and across the state with the businesses, public agencies, and other organizations that are looking to hire qualified individuals. The Lugar Visclosky Job Fair will host federal, state and local security and law enforcement agencies, high tech firms, health care organizations, financial institutions, big industry, and various other private and public entities. An informational flyer is available at https://lugar.senate.gov/jobfair.html.
05.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has introduced energy legislation to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by investing in new U.S. energy technologies. The legislation, called the American Fuels Act (HR 2354), addresses our nation’s energy crisis in a comprehensive fashion by focusing on production, consumption, and distribution. “Our nation is facing an energy crisis that compromises our national security, hampers our economic potential, and cuts into the pocketbook of Northwest Indiana residents every time they go the gas station,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy & Water Development. “By working to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, The American Fuels Act will strengthen our national security, and by investing in alternative energy technologies, it will allow American innovation to create new economic opportunities throughout the entire energy industry.” Visclosky’s American Fuels Act is a companion bill to legislation introduced by Senator Barack Obama (D-Illinois), Senator Richard Lugar (R-Indiana) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) in the United States Senate. Visclosky introduced similar legislation during the last session of Congress. Visclosky believes that if this type of comprehensive effort to address our nation’s energy crisis is successful, people in Northwest Indiana and across the nation will see real economic benefits, and the U.S. will be stronger and more financially secure. “The outrageous gas prices we are paying at the pump are a symptom of a much larger issue: this Administration has failed to develop a comprehensive energy policy that addresses our immediate and long-term needs,” said Visclosky. “People in Northwest Indiana are paying too much for a gallon of gasoline, and if this Administration does not act to invest in new and alternative technologies, we will continue to see gas prices remain at levels that cut into the budgets of hard-working families.” Specifically, the American Fuels Act would do the following: Create a Director of Energy Security as the principal advisor to the President, the National Security Council, the Domestic Policy Council, the National Economic Council and the Homeland Security Council regarding national energy security policy. Provide automakers with a $100 tax credit for every Flexible Fuel Vehicle produced (those produced due to the CAFE credit incentive are ineligible for the credit). Provide an Alternative Diesel Standard similar to the Renewable Fuels Standard for gasoline. Phases in 2 billion gallons of alternative diesels into the 40 billion gallon annual national diesel pool by 2016. Eligible alternative diesels include those manufactured from vegetable oils, animal fats, coal-to-liquids, manure, and garbage. Provide E85 temporary retail tax credit. Provides for five-year temporary Gas Gallon Equivalency tax credit for E85 fuel at 35 cents per gallon, phasing to 20 cents per gallon in 2010-2011 and 10 cents in 2012, after which it terminates. Provide Cellulosic Ethanol Production Tax Credit. Places a financial value on the trading credit for cellulosic biomass created in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Provides an additional 0.765 per gallon for cellulosic biomass fuels so that first-generation CBE plants will meet 250 million gallon production goals by 2012. Terminates in 10 years. Requires public access to alternative refueling stations located on federal property; provides for security exemptions. Terminates in 7 years or when alternative fuels are available at 5% of commercial refueling stations. Requires at least one alternative refueling pump at all federal refueling stations. Requires 100 percent of the federal fleet to be alternative fueled vehicles or hybrids by 2014. Federally-funded clean fuel buses. In two years, public transit agencies that use federal funds to purchase buses must purchase clean-fuel buses. Exempts transit agencies that acquire conventional gasoline or diesel buses that also enter into alternative fuel acquisition contracts Defense Department fuel purchases. Allows the Department of Defense to enter into contracts up to five years in length for the acquisition of domestically-produced alternative fuels for defense purposes. Freedom for Fuel Franchisers: Amends the Petroleum Marketers Act by prohibiting oil companies from prohibiting the sale of renewable fuels within their franchise contracts; amends Gasohol Competition Act to allow franchises to sue oil companies for such restrictions. Ethanol blending by ethanol producers. Provides a tax credit of 50 percent of the cost of on-site blending equipment for ethanol producers that invest in their own on-site blending equipment. Adds medium and heavy duty hybrids as eligible vehicles for federal, state and utility fleet requirements of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, a technology that did not exist at the time of enactment of the 1992 act.
05.15.2007	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed legislation today cosponsored by Congressman Pete Visclosky to put 50,000 more police officers in our nation’s communities – including an estimated 114 new cops to fight crime and terrorism in Indiana’s First Congressional District. The legislation comes as violent crime is on the rise nationwide, according to a recent law enforcement association study and new FBI statistics, and as Northwest Indiana has recently seen a surge in violent crime. “In order to keep our communities safe and secure, we need to provide our local law enforcement agencies with the ability to put more officers on the streets. We need to provide access to technology that will help them fight crime,” said Visclosky. “The COPS program provides these critical services to police agencies throughout Northwest Indiana and the nation.” The COPS program has been one of the most successful law enforcement programs in the nation’s history. To date the program has put almost 120,000 more officers on the street nationwide, including 267 in Indiana’s First Congressional District. The COPS Improvement Act, passed today by the House of Representatives, will re-energize the COPS program nationwide. The officer-hiring portion of COPS has seen funding go from over $1 billion a year near the end of the Clinton administration, to zero under President Bush. Additional facts on the program’s impact on Northwest Indiana include: Since 1994, the COPS program has helped law enforcement in Indiana’s First Congressional District to put 267 cops on the beat. With passage of the COPS Improvement Act, an additional 114 officers will likely be hired over the course of the next six years. Since 1994, COPS has invested $21,069,985 in Indiana’s First Congressional District. With passage of the COPS Improvement Act, Northwest Indiana will likely receive an additional $6,428,131 over the course of the next six years. Since 1994, the COPS program has enabled law enforcement agencies to employ 30 more school resource officers, who keep our children safe at school, in the First Congressional District. With passage of the COPS Improvement Act, an additional 13 school resource officers will likely be hired over the course of the next six years. Since 1994, the COPS program has sent $4,832,220 to Northwest Indiana to purchase technology and training that helps cops get out from behind their desks an out on patrol. With passage of the COPS Improvement Act, an additional $1,474,237 in technology grants will likely go to the First Congressional District. Created in 1994 to put more police officers on the streets, the COPS program has been enormously successful. Nationally, COPS has provided $9 billion to hire 117,000 police officers. According to a GAO study, between 1998 and 2000, COPS grants were responsible for reducing crimes by about 200,000 to 225,000 crimes – one third of which were violent. In 1998, COPS grants were responsible for an 8% decrease in crimes – and a 13% drop in violent crimes. Despite its success, last year President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress eliminated funding to hire much-needed officers. Visclosky is pleased to see the funding restored. “Protecting our communities and giving law enforcement every opportunity to successfully protect the public is an investment that must be made,” said Visclosky. Earlier this year, the Police Executive Research Forum, a prominent law enforcement association, released a report which found that violent crimes rose by double digit percentages over the last two years. Among the cities surveyed, since 2005, 71% had an increase in homicides, 80% saw robberies rise and 67% reported an increase in aggravated assaults with guns. The study is backed by FBI statistics released last December which show that crime is growing in the United States for the first time since the early 1990s. During the first six months of 2006, homicides, assaults and other violent offenses grew by 4%, and robberies, which are often interpreted as a precursor to more serious crime, jumped by 10% nationwide. This legislation has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities.
05.14.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today met with members of the Lake County Pipes and Drums during their trip to Washington, DC to participate in National Police Memorial Week. In addition to their meeting with Visclosky, the group attended a candlelight vigil at the National Police Memorial, places a Memorial Wreath in honor of Chief Gary Martin, and participated in the National Police Week Parade. “Our police officers truly are on the front lines of protecting our communities, and they deserve to be honored not just during National Police Memorial Week, but year round,” said Visclosky. “I applaud members of the Lake County Pipes and Drums for representing Northwest Indiana during this national week of recognition.” Supporting COPS Visclosky also said that as part of the efforts to support local law enforcement, the House of Representatives would be working to reauthorize the COPS program as early as this week. The COPS program provides local law enforcement with resources for community policing, technology programs, and other programs to make communities across the nation safer. “Police officers in Northwest Indiana dedicate themselves to protecting us, and we owe it to them to provide the tools and resources they need to be successful,” said Visclosky. Visclosky’s Support of Law Enforcement Throughout his time in office Congressman Visclosky has worked to support law enforcement agencies at the local and national level, and advanced efforts to reduce crime in Northwest Indiana. Visclosky authored the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Act, which provides federal funds to help local law enforcement agencies purchase bulletproof vests. Since funding for Visclosky’s Bulletproof vest program became available, over $450,000 has gone to help law enforcement agencies in Indiana’s 1st Congressional District purchase bulletproof vests. Visclosky was also successful in getting Lake County designated as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). The Lake County HIDTA was created in 1997. Since its inception, Visclosky has helped secure over $33 million to help stop the drug trafficking throughout the area. In addition to giving police officers the tools they need to fight crime, Visclosky has worked to promote crime prevention in Northwest Indiana. Visclosky has secured $7.5 million for Northwest Indiana’s Drug Demand Reduction Program, which is run by the Indiana National Guard, provides anti-drug programming for students in Northwest Indiana. Visclosky points to the recent increase in violent crime in Northwest Indiana as proof that a long-term commitment to Northwest Indiana’s law enforcement agencies is needed. “Whether it’s making it easier for police to get bulletproof vests, or investing in anti-drug activities, I will continue to look for opportunities to support the men and women in law enforcement who protect our communities everyday,” said Visclosky.
05.14.2007	Washington, D.C. – As Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Congressman Pete Visclosky has led a bipartisan push calling on the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to strengthen American steel jobs and allow the domestic steel Pipe and Tube industry an opportunity to compete on a level playing field. In a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab, Visclosky and 57 other members of the Congressional Steel Caucus called for the U.S. to address a recent announcement by the Chinese government that they will not reduce subsidies on pipe and tube steel products, making it the only sector in the finished steel industry that would not see an elimination or reduction in Chinese rebates. Visclosky and the Steel Caucus Members urged the USTR to address this issue at the U.S.-China Strategic Economic Dialogue summit which will be held on May 23rd and 24th in Washington DC. “This sector of the U.S. steel industry has worked hard to reinvest, retool, and redirect its energies in recent years as competition for market share has escalated. It is an efficient industry and an integral component of the U.S. economy. In addition to the customers they serve, this industry is also an important customer to U.S. steel producers,” wrote Visclosky and the Steel Caucus Members to Trade Rep. Schwab. “While we respect the rights of all nations to conduct trade in an open and fair manner, the Steel Caucus is deeply concerned that these Chinese actions are explicitly targeting the critical downstream producers and workers of the pipe, tube, and fittings industry. We cannot allow these tactics to adversely affect this highest value-added segment of the domestic steel industry.” China is a leading exporter of an array of steel pipe, tube, and fittings products. In fact, import data shows that Chinese imports increased 81 percent, from 350,000 to 631,000 tons, in the first quarter of 2007 over the first quarter of 2006. It is estimated that imports from China in 2007 will be approximately 3.9 million tons, or approximately 30 percent of the U.S. market. As illustrated on the enclosed chart, overall imports have consistently increased. By not addressing this unfair advantage held by the Chinese steel industry, Northwest Indiana steelworkers could suffer. According to the Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports (CPTI), Allied Tube and Conduit, located in Harvey, Illinois, is one of the nation’s largest pipe and tube producers and has over 500 employees that live in Northwest Indiana. Allied is an important customer of the area steel mills because it purchases hot-rolled steel to make pipe and tube products. “If we allow the Chinese steel industry to continue down the path they are on, we will see more outsourcing of American steel jobs, and the domestic steel industry will be weakened,” said Visclosky. “We must not let our own trade policies hurt our economic security, and I urge to Trade Rep. Schwab to immediately address these critical issues with the Chinese.” [COMPLETE LETTER TO U.S. TRADE REP.] The Honorable Susan Schwab United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street Northwest Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Schwab: We write today as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus on behalf of the domestic steel pipe, tube, and fittings industry and its 30,000 workers on a trade matter of the utmost importance to this industry. We are very concerned that U.S. pipe, tube, and fittings producers are in danger of being forced out of their own market. On April 10, 2007, the Chinese government announced that they would reduce or eliminate a number of export rebates on steel products, including a rebate on 75 percent of their steel exports. However, the Chinese government did not agree to reduce or eliminate the export rebate on pipe and tube products. Instead, the export rebate of 13 percent remains in place, which will continue to give a direct incentive to the Chinese pipe and tube industry to export its products. The ramifications of this decision for the U.S. pipe and tube industry and its workers are troubling. The Steel Caucus believes it is an appropriate time for the U.S. government to communicate with the Chinese government about this export rebate announcement. You will have an opportunity to do so at the upcoming U.S.-China Strategic Economic Dialogue summit, which will be held on May 23 to May 24, 2007, in Washington, DC. We request that you make this a prominent topic of discussion during the Dialogue. China is a leading exporter of an array of steel pipe, tube, and fittings products. In fact, import data shows that Chinese imports increased 81 percent, from 350,000 to 631,000 tons, in the first quarter of 2007 over the first quarter of 2006. It is estimated that imports from China in 2007 will be approximately 3.9 million tons, or approximately 30 percent of the U.S. market. As illustrated on the enclosed chart, overall imports have consistently increased. Industry observers agree that Chinese producers are targeting the U.S. pipe, tube, and fittings sector. For those in the standard pipe sector, who were deluged by a surge of imports from China and were denied Section 421 relief in 2005, the effects of this import swell have already begun. Several companies have closed facilities, and even more have furloughed workers. After recent meetings between Steel Caucus Members and domestic producers and workers, it is clear to us that this trend cannot be allowed to continue. This sector of the U.S. steel industry has worked hard to reinvest, retool, and redirect its energies in recent years as competition for market share has escalated. It is an efficient industry and an integral component of the U.S. economy. In addition to the customers they serve, this industry is also an important customer to U.S. steel producers. While we respect the rights of all nations to conduct trade in an open and fair manner, the Steel Caucus is deeply concerned that these Chinese actions are explicitly targeting the critical downstream producers and workers of the pipe, tube, and fittings industry. We cannot allow these tactics to adversely affect this highest value-added segment of the domestic steel industry. Thank you for your serious consideration of our request. On behalf of these companies and their workers, we ask for your assistance and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Rep. Peter J. Visclosky, Chairman Rep. Phil English, Vice-Chairman Rep. Alan Mollohan Rep. Ralph Regula Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones Rep. Mark Souder Rep. Dennis Kucinich Rep. Steven LaTourette Rep. Charlie Wilson Rep. Robert Aderholt Rep. John Shimkus Rep. Shelley Moore Capito Rep. Robert Cramer Rep. Artur Davis Rep. Marion Berry Rep. Bruce Braley Rep. Mike Ross Rep. Vic Snyder Rep. Jerry Costello Rep. James Oberstar Rep. Nick Rahall Rep. Danny Davis Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Betty Sutton Rep. Henry Brown Rep. Spencer Bachus Rep. Rosa DeLauro Rep. Joe Donnelly Rep. Ray LaHood Rep. Dan Burton Rep. Steve Buyer Rep. Sam Graves Rep. Michael Doyle Rep. Leonard Boswell Rep. Tim Holden Rep. Dan Lipinski Rep. David Loebsack Rep. James McGovern Rep. Patrick Murphy Rep. Tim Murphy Rep. Jim Gerlach Rep. Jesse Jackson, Jr. Rep. Julia Carson Rep. Dale Kildee Rep. Robert Andrews Rep. Zach Space Rep. Jason Altmire Rep. Robert Brady Rep. Chris Carney Rep. Paul Kanjorski Rep. Gene Green Rep. Jo Bonner Rep. Charles Pickering Rep. John Peterson Rep. Baron Hill Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Joseph Pitts Rep. Phil Hare
05.08.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Cedar Lake will receive $495,000 to improve the streetscapes of the town, including sidewalk improvements, lighting, and other projects. The funding is part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban and Development’s (HUD) Economic Development Initiative program. “This funding will improve Cedar Lake’s infrastructure, it will help offset the local cost to Cedar Lake, and it is a part of their master plan,” said Visclosky. “I am proud to be a part of this economic development project. Funding for the project was secured by Visclosky in the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill of 2006. Before the funds could be accessed however, Cedar Lake needed to submit a project application to the (HUD). With the application approved, Cedar Lake will now have access to the funds.
03.27.2007	Washington, D.C. – As gas prices continue to rise in Northwest Indiana, Congressman Pete Visclosky says that a new policy is needed to help families who are struggling with the near record cost of fuel. According to the AAA Fuel Gauge Report, the average cost of a gallon of regular gasoline in Indiana now costs $2.51, up 79% since 2001, when the average was $1.40. Visclosky says a mix of short and long term energy investments is needed. “Northwest Indiana families are paying too much for a gallon of gasoline, and relief is needed right now,” said Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “We need a comprehensive policy that ensures more affordable energy for consumers, reduces our national dependence on foreign oil, and invests in the energy alternatives that will provide a long-term foundation to meet the demands of the future.” Putting Consumers First In the short-term, one of the first steps in reducing the high price of gasoline is to ensure that consumers have access to the most affordable fuel possible. In 2006, oil company profits totaled $124.9 billion, which was up from $34.2 billion in 2002. Since the new Congress convened in January, the House passed and Visclosky supported the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, to repeal $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for oil companies in order to invest in clean renewable energy and alternative fuels and energy efficiency. This legislation has not yet been signed into law. Visclosky also is a co-sponsor of the Federal Price Gouging Prevention Act, which would give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy, applicable to gasoline, oil, natural gas, home heating oil, crude oil, and propane. “With gas prices nearing an all-time record, residents of Northwest Indiana should not have to worry that they are paying artificially inflated prices,” said Visclosky. “It is unacceptable for any company to engage in price gouging, and offenders should be held responsible.” Investing in Alternative Energy Visclosky also believes in order to truly address the energy crisis facing our nation, a substantial investment must be made in the alternative energies that will allow the U.S. to produce affordable, home-grown energy and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Northwest Indiana is home to an example of this type of investment – the Iroquois Bio-Energy Ethanol Plant. Congressman Visclosky worked to secure $9.5 million for the construction of the ethanol plant, which is located in Rensselaer, Indiana. The facility opened in mid-January, and uses corn as the base to produce the home-grown energy. “If we truly are committed to ending our addiction on foreign oil and to developing affordable and sustainable energy alternatives, then we must continue to seek out opportunities like the ethanol plant in Jasper County,” said Visclosky. Through his work on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Visclosky has continued to lead the charge for investment in energy technology. Most recently, Visclosky worked to boost funding for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Resources by $300 million. Visclosky says one of the reasons for high gas prices right now is a lack of investment in past years. Investments in energy and conservation were at all-time highs during the oil crisis of the 1970’s, and then our investments dropped along with the price of oil. “To ensure we do not let foreign oil-producing nations essentially set gas prices for our country, I believe we need long-term investment, year after year, that will strengthen our national security, create new economic opportunities, and provide more affordable fuel costs for everyone in Northwest Indiana.”
03.23.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive almost $45 million for major lakefront, environmental, and flood control projects throughout Northwest Indiana. The funding for the projects, which are crucial to improving the infrastructure and quality of life in Northwest Indiana, comes from the FY07 Joint Funding Resolution that was signed into law in mid-February. Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, worked closely with the Administration and the Army Corps of Engineers to secure funding for the projects. Originally passed by the House in May of 2006, the projects were at risk of not receiving funding this year because the Administration and last year’s Congress failed to complete the appropriations bills that fund the federal government. “These projects have real value for the people, the environment, and the economy of Northwest Indiana. People will be removed from the flood plain, our lakefronts are being enhanced, and we are working for the restoration of our local environment,” said Visclosky. “Where we could have had a year-long funding delay, we now will have investments made in projects that will add to our quality of life.” Federal Funding for Indiana Harbor Confined Disposal Facility The Indiana Harbor in East Chicago will receive the bulk of the announced funding, with $20.25 million going for the construction of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF). In May of 2005, Visclosky announced that the federal government will pay the full amount for the CDF, relieving East Chicago taxpayers of the $40 million local expense. The project fits into Visclosky’s vision to restore the south shore of Lake Michigan, known as the Marquette Plan, which will attract new jobs, new businesses, and improve the quality of life in Northwest Indiana by improving public access along the lakefront. Further, the construction of the facility will have significant environmental benefits for Northwest Indiana. “Because there is full federal funding for this facility, Northwest Indiana’s environment will be cleaner, and it will be completed faster – all while saving local taxpayer dollars,” said Visclosky. “The Indiana Harbor is one of Northwest Indiana’s environmental hotspots, and because we are working now to restore the area, future generations will have an improved quality of life. These investments in our environment and in the Marquette Plan are key to building a new economy in Northwest Indiana.” Additionally, the Indiana Harbor will also receive $550,000 for operation, maintenance and dredging. Northwest Indiana Flood Control Of the funding, $14 million was secured for the Little Calumet flood control project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect the 11,500 homes in Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will help protect citizens and property for years to come, preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. Additionally, $4 million was secured for the Cady Marsh Ditch project, which is a flood control project in Griffith, Highland, and unincorporated Lake County. This $4 million should be enough to complete the Cady Marsh Ditch project. “Too many people are in the flood plain, and the time is past due to finish the Little Calumet Flood Control project,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Completion of the flood control projects in Northwest Indiana should be a top priority for all parties involved.” Lakeshore and Environmental Enhancement Several projects benefiting Northwest Indiana lakes also will receive funding. Wolf Lake in Hammond will receive $800,000 for environmental restoration, which includes the reconstruction of wetlands and aquatic habitats. Wolf Lake’s eroded shoreline has been a detriment to many species, and the continuation of this project is of prime environmental concern. Restoration of Wolf Lake will provide additional recreational opportunities, such as fishing and boating, for everyone in Northwest Indiana. To date, Visclosky has secured $4.8 million for the Wolf Lake project. Congressman Visclosky also secured $1 million to fund operations at the Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project along the Indiana Dunes. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and reverse its effects to protect the beaches for future generations. Cedar Lake, will receive $180,000 for environmental improvements, including deepening the lake and restoring its natural ecosystem. Visclosky has secured $680,000 since 2004 for Cedar Lake. “Investing in Northwest Indiana’s lakes and shorelines will improve our local environment and provide the quality of life opportunities that attract and retain jobs and businesses in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky, who has long been a champion of lakeshore enhancement under his Marquette Plan. Visclosky was also able to secure $3.59 million for Burns Waterway Harbor in Porter County for continued operation and maintenance. To date, Visclosky has secured $27.755 million for this project. Burns Harbor is major economic engine for Northwest Indiana, having handled a record $820 million of cargo in 2006. Also receiving funding is the Grand Calumet River, which will get $550,000 for a feasibility study to determine how best to conduct clean-up activities.
03.14.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky and 31 Members of the Congressional Steel Caucus today endorsed legislation that would allow American steelmakers and all manufacturers to obtain relief from illegally subsidized imports from all countries. The legislation, called the Nonmarket Economy Trade Remedy Act of 2007 (HR 1229) was introduced by U.S. Representatives Artur Davis (D-AL) and Steel Caucus Vice-Chairman Phil English (R-PA), and has been referred to the Committee on Ways & Means. As Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Visclosky is a co-sponsor of the legislation. In a letter urging the Committee to look favorably on this legislation, Visclosky and the Steel Caucus Members wrote, “American steel manufacturers and workers are increasingly faced with unfair trade competition from subsidized imports.” The letter also stated, “In our view, this bipartisan legislation is needed to fix a longstanding inequity in U.S. trade law and to expand the ability of American steelmakers, and indeed all manufacturers, to obtain relief from illegally subsidized imports from all countries. Specifically, the Nonmarket Economy Trade Remedy Act of 2007 would put an end to the U.S. having to compete unfairly against illegally subsidized imports by amending Title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 to explicitly require the Department of Commerce to accept Countervailing Duty cases against nonmarket economies. In addition, H.R. 1229 would create a new mechanism in which Congressional approval would be required to implement a decision by Commerce to “graduate” a country from nonmarket to market economy status. Finally, the measure would direct the International Trade Commission (ITC) to conduct an annual study of Chinese government intervention to promote investment, employment and exports. The ITC would be directed to submit its findings to Congress every year through 2017. Outsourcing, China hampers domestic steel industry Visclosky believes the legislation will allow the American steel industry to compete on a level playing field, and will slow the flow of good-paying American manufacturing jobs that have been sent overseas. “Too many good-paying jobs have been shipped overseas, and the time is past due to strengthen our local steel and manufacturing industries,” said Visclosky. “With China producing more and more illegally subsidized steel, our country will continue to be put at a competitive disadvantage unless we act now.” Visclosky to Testify before Key Committee Visclosky will also make his case to the committee with jurisdiction over the legislation. On Thursday, March 15, 2007 at 1:00PM in Room 1100 of the Longworth House Office Building, Visclosky will testify before the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, urging them to advance this legislation.
01.30.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that funding for energy research and technology under the Fiscal Year 2007 Joint Funding Resolution has been increased by $500 million over 2006 levels. Visclosky, who is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy & Water, says the funding is critical for our nation to establish greater energy independence. “Our nation’s dependence on foreign oil hampers our economic potential and exposes us to international instability,” said Visclosky. “While this additional funding won’t make us energy independent overnight, it is a step toward developing the technologies needed to make us less reliant on foreign oil.” Specifically, the Joint Funding Resolution, which is expected to be voted on in the House on Wednesday, provides the following energy funding under the Department of Energy: Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Resources: Total Funding: $1.5 billion FY 07 Increase from last year: $300 million Purpose: To accelerate research and development activities for renewable energy and energy efficiency programs. The Department of Energy will use the funding to pursue more technologies that hold promise for reducing the emission of greenhouse gases and the importation of oil, while supporting growth in the US economy. This includes such items as an increased competitive selection of a wider variety of biorefineries and support for joint government – industry efforts to have zero energy homes market viable by 2020. Office of Science: Total Funding: $3.8 billion FY 07 Increase from last year: $200 million Purpose: To support research including new energy technologies such as improved conversion of cellulosic biomass to biofuels. This increase is a first step toward improving government support for research in the physical sciences and will ensure the continued operation of DOE user facilities at full capacity in support of a broad range of research fields serving users ranging from academe to industry. The Joint Funding Resolution totals $463.5 billion, the amount remaining under the Republican budget resolution for the current fiscal year. Because the Republican-led Congress last year failed to pass 9 of the 11 appropriations bills required to allow the federal government to operate, the new 110th Congress had to take the unusual and less-than-ideal step to fund the remaining portions of the government under a continuing resolution. “By moving quickly to resolve the unfinished work of last Congress, it is my hope we can act in dedicated and bipartisan fashion to address the short and long-term energy needs facing our country,” said Visclosky.
01.18.2007	Washington, D.C. – As the new Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, Congressman Pete Visclosky today made a push to build the ranks of the Caucus within the House of Representatives and create more support for issues facing the steel industry. In a letter to all Members of Congress which was co-signed by Vice-Chair Phil English (R-Pennsylvania), Visclosky invited all Members to join the group, and outlined the work ahead. “The 110th Congress will be an active one for trade and labor issues, and the Steel Caucus will continue to provide a forum for members to voice their concerns regarding issues facing companies and workers across the United States,” said Visclosky in the letter. The Congressional Steel Caucus is a bipartisan group of over 100 Members of Congress who share a common concern for issues that affect the domestic steel industry. One of the biggest concerns for Visclosky is the challenges posed by the Chinese steel industry. “The Chinese steel industry, now more than twice as large as that of Japan and the United States combined, will certainly be a main focus. China recently became the largest source of U.S. steel imports, supplying roughly 4.8 million metric tons in 2006 – an increase of 131 percent over 2005 levels,” wrote Visclosky in the letter. “All the while, China’s surging capacity has not been market-driven, but instead has been fueled by massive government subsidies in the form of preferential loans, tax incentives, and subsidized raw materials.” Visclosky believes that the Steel Caucus is needed to be an advocate for American jobs. “Because of our misguided trade policies, too many good-paying jobs have been shipped overseas,” said Visclosky. “I hope to add to the ranks of the Steel Caucus so we can continue to fight to protect American jobs.”
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today said that a robust domestic steel industry is vital to our national defense and security, echoing a report from the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) and partnering organizations that outlines the need for domestically-produced steel to “improve our military platforms, strengthen the nation’s industrial base and harden our vital homeland security infrastructure.” Visclosky, who is the new Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, said, “To ensure that our national defense needs will be met, it is crucial that we have a robust and vibrant domestic steel industry. It is poor policy to rely on foreign steel for our national security – instead, we need a long-term investment in domestically-produced, high-quality and reliable steel that will serve and strengthen our national security interests.” A copy of the report titled, “Steel and the National Defense” is available at www.steel.org.
12.21.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced he will be holding 20 Town Forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District during the month of January. Each year Visclosky holds forums throughout the region to hear directly from constituents and provide an update on the issues facing Congress and Northwest Indiana. “There are many important issues facing this country and Northwest Indiana right now, including reducing our dependence on foreign oil, stopping the outsourcing of American jobs, and protecting pensions and retirement security,” said Visclosky. “As the New Year and a new Congress begin, I look forward to hearing directly from the people of Northwest Indiana on the issues that matter most to them. Visclosky has scheduled a town forum in every region of the district, and provide an opportunity for constituents to discuss any topic with the Congressman. Just like in year’s past, a local middle or high school student will have the opportunity to introduce Congressman Visclosky in his or her community and lead the forum in the Pledge of Allegiance. “These young leaders are the future of Northwest Indiana, and I thank each of them for taking an active role in these public meetings,” said Visclosky. Congressman Visclosky’s Town Forum Schedule for 2007: Saturday, January 6, 2007 9:00 am (EST) - Fowler: Benton County Library, 102 North 3rd Street Introduction by Jamie Powell, 8th Grader, Benton Central Jr/Sr High School 10:30 am - Morocco: Newton County Municipal Center, 4117 South 240 West Introduction by Jack Callahan, 12th Grader, North Newton Jr/Sr High School 12:30 pm - Rensselaer: Jasper County Library, 208 West Susan Street Introduction by Logan Torbet, 8th Grader, Rensselaer Middle School 3:00 pm - Lowell: Lowell Town Hall, 501 East Main Street Introduction by Isaac Auten, 8th Grader, Lowell Middle School 5:00 pm - Schererville: Gerry Scheub Community Center, 1515 Lincoln Highway Introduction by Marlo Owczarzak, 6th Grader, Grimmer Middle School Sunday, January 7, 2007 2:00 pm - Gary: YWCA of Gary, 150 West 15th Avenue Introduction by Kyle Barnett, 8th Grader, Dunbar Pulaski Middle School 4:00 pm - Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall, Council Chambers, 3625 Central Avenue Introduction by Melissa Dickerson, 12th Grader, Edison Jr/Sr High School Monday, January 8, 2007 9:30 am - Whiting: Whiting City Hall, 1443 119th Street Introduction by Lupe Cornejo, 8th Grader, Whiting Middle School Friday, January 19, 2007 2:30 pm – Munster: Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road Introduction by Olivia Koufos, 8th Grader, Wilbur Wright Middle School 4:30 pm - Dyer: Dyer Town Hall, One Town Square Introduction by student to be determined 6:30 pm - Griffith: Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street Introduction by Michelle Sopetti, 8th Grader, Griffith Middle School Saturday, January 20, 2007 9:00 am - Hebron: Hebron Library, 201 West Sigler Street Introduction by Laura Macneill, 8th Grader, Hebron Middle School 11:00 am - Valparaiso: Porter County Commissioner’s Chambers, 155 Indiana Avenue, Room 205 Introduction by Maya Major, 8th Grader, Benjamin Franklin Middle School 1:00 pm - Portage: Portage City Hall, 6070 West Central Avenue Introduction by Abigail Clark, 8th Grader, Willowcreek Middle School 3:00 pm - Hobart: Hobart Town Hall, 414 Main Street Introduction by Chanler Rosenbaum, 8th Grader, Hobart Middle School 5:00 pm - Merrillville: Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway Introduction by Payton Parker, 8th Grader, Pierce Middle School Sunday, January 21, 2007 2:00 pm - Crown Point: American Legion Post No. 20, 1401 North Main Street Introduction by Kristin Overbey, 8th Grader, Robert A. Taft Middle School 4:00 pm - Highland: Highland Recreation Center, (Lincoln Center), Room 17, 2450 Lincoln Street Introduction by Jessica Elish, 8th Grader, Highland Middle School Monday, January 22, 2007 9:30 am - East Chicago: East Chicago Public Library, 1008 West Chicago Avenue Introduction by Jelen D. Gillis, 8th Grader, Block Jr. High 11:30 am - Hammond: Jean Shepherd Center, 3031 Mahoney Drive Introduction by Jamie Trost, 8th Grader, Scott Middle School
10.13.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky will testify before the before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) twice next week in support of existing fair-trade policies that will keep local steel jobs in Northwest Indiana from being shipped overseas. The U.S. Department of Commerce has already issued a statement for one of the hearings that illegal dumping will resume if the ITC revokes the fair-trade policies. “Those who want to revoke these common-sense policies are in favor of shipping our manufacturing jobs overseas. Those who support keeping these fair trade policies in place are on the side of American jobs,” said Visclosky, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “I am proud to side with American jobs and American workers.”The ITC hearing on Tuesday, October 17th is a Sunset review hearing from 1993 that will address corrosion-resistant steel from Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and Korea. Presently, U.S. Steel facilities in Gary and Portage, Indiana produce this type of steel as well as Mittal Steel’s facilities in Indiana Harbor and Burns Harbor. Commerce Department Says Lifting Policies will Lead to Steel Dumping On June 6, 2006, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a report in the federal register that “revocation of the AD (anti-dumping) orders would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping.” Part of this ITC review is to consider whether revoking the fair trade laws will injure American companies and their workers, and the analysis from the Department of Commerce clearly says that dumping will occur. Simply stated, the Department of Commerce has said that if existing anti-dumping orders are removed, illegally traded sales of corrosion resistant steel would be likely to resume from the countries in question. On Thursday, October 19th, Visclosky will testify before the ITC on cut-to-length plate steel from Belgium, Brazil, Finland, Germany, Mexico, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Just like the previous hearing, revocation of these fair-trade policies will put American steel manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage, and lead to the outsourcing of American jobs. As of 2005, the Mittal Steel facility in Burns Harbor employed roughly 700 of its 3700 workers on the production of cut-to-length plate. Northwest Indiana Cut-to-Length Steel Produced for National Security In his testimony on the 19th, Visclosky will also point out that health of American Cut-to-Length steel has serious implications for national security. All of the steel plate used to construct U.S. Navy destroyers since 1998 has come from the Plate plant in Burns Harbor, Indiana, and one-third of aircraft carrier projects use plate from this facility. “The Defense Department relies on a limited number of domestic suppliers to meet these critical needs, and allowing dumped imports to injure these suppliers will weaken our industrial base and compromise our national security,” said Visclosky. “We cannot let that happen.” “Lifting these common-sense trade policies would put Northwest Indiana jobs at risk of being shipped overseas,” said Visclosky. “Allowing illegally dumped steel to enter our marketplace will weaken our manufacturing base and eliminate good-paying American jobs. It is my hope that in both hearings, the ITC will rule in favor of fair trade laws that protect American jobs.” ITC hearing schedule: Tuesday, October 17th, 2006: Corrosion-Resistant Steel 9:30AM EST Main Hearing Room ITC Building 500 E Street SW Washington, DC Thursday, October 19th, 2006: Cut-to-Length Steel 9:30AM EST Main Hearing Room ITC Building 500 E Street SW Washington, DC
10.11.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that homeowners and small businesses affected by the severe storms and flooding that occurred in Northwest Indiana from September 12th–14th will be able to apply for disaster assistance from the Small Business Administration (SBA). There are two kinds of disaster assistance loans covering damage to physical property as well as economic injury to the business. Each loan program has a limit of up to $1.5 million. “These disaster assistance loans can help Northwest Indiana residents recover from the storms that caused severe damage throughout the area,” said Visclosky. “It is my hope that homeowners and businesses affected by the storms will utilize this program to aid in their recovery.” Business owners who wish to apply for one of the loan programs may contact the Small Business Administration at the following address, or contact the Office of Congressman Pete Visclosky at 219-795-1844: A. Escobar Office of Disaster Assistance U.S. Small Business Administration 409 3rd Street SW, Suite 6050 Washington, DC 20416 The deadline for the Physical Loan Application is December 5, 2006. The deadline for the Economic Injury (EIDL) Loan is July 6, 2007. Each program has a range of loans available, depending on access to credit, insurance coverage and type of assistance requested.
10.10.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that local law enforcement agencies throughout Northwest Indiana will receive federal grants totaling $35,381.19 to help with the purchase of 118 bulletproof vests. The grants were awarded by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program, which was created by legislation written and introduced by Congressman Visclosky in 1998. “Our police officers put themselves in harm’s way to protect the public, and they deserve the equipment and resources that will make our communities safer,” said Visclosky. “The Bulletproof Vest Program helps local law enforcement agencies pay for the vests needed to protect our neighborhoods. Visclosky authored the original bill in 1997, because of the lack of bulletproof vests throughout the country’s police departments. The program was signed into law in June of 1998, and has since helped law enforcement agencies in Northwest Indiana, as well as throughout the country, to offset the expense of purchasing new bulletproof vests. Administered by the Department of Justice, the Bulletproof Vests Partnership Program has helped with the purchase of an estimated 630,000 vests. The program provides funds up to 50% of the cost of each vest purchased. “We are proud of the fact that the crime rate in East Chicago continues to decrease significantly, however there is still a need for the equipment necessary to serve our community,” said East Chicago Mayor George Pabey, whose city will receive over $7,400 in bulletproof vest funding. “We are very thankful to Congressman Visclosky for helping provide additional resources to protect our community.” “Every tool we get to keep our officers safe is welcome,” said Crown Point Chief of Police Keith Hefner. “Our officers use these vests everyday, and this funding will help offset the costs.” “In order to keep our city safe, we must give the police the tools they need to do their job,” said Portage Mayor Doug Olson. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, we are protecting our officers, protecting our city, and saving local taxpayer dollars.” 2006 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program for Indiana’s 1st Congressional District: Law Enforcement Agency Grant Amount Number of Vests Crown Point $2,949.95 10 Dyer $335.00 1 East Chicago $7,437.50 17 Griffith $2914.95 11 Jasper County $1,588.92 5 Merrillville $2,100.00 6 Munster $2,750.00 11 Newton County $869.99 3 Portage $1,125.00 5 Rensselaer $1,767.00 6 Schererville $915.00 3 Valparaiso $4,752.88 22 Whiting $5,875.00 18 _________ __________ __________ Total: $35,281.19 118
09.27.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today introduced legislation that would make it more difficult for companies to ship American jobs overseas, by denying federal funds for companies that continue to outsource. “Too many good-paying American jobs are being shipped overseas, hurting our working families, our communities, and our country’s long-term competitive position.” said Congressman Visclosky. “Adding insult to injury is the fact that this Administration allows our tax dollars, in the form of contracts, loans, and subsidies, to go companies that engage in outsourcing.” Visclosky’s “Fighting for American Jobs Act” (H.R. 6196) would prohibit business enterprises that lay-off a greater percentage of their United States workers than workers in other countries from receiving any Federal assistance. The legislation would require businesses that receive federal grants, loans and assistance to 1) provide the number of employees, both in the U.S. and overseas, and 2) provide the percentage of the workforce that has been laid off or forced to retire each year, both in the U.S. and overseas. The legislation would prohibit federal assistance to a business that lays off a greater percentage of workers in the U.S. than overseas within the previous year. To date, the federal government does not keep an accurate accounting of federal subsidies that go to companies that outsource American jobs. “American companies should be investing in American jobs,” said Visclosky. “By having accurate information on a company’s offshore employment, no longer will American tax dollars help support companies that send our jobs overseas.” Visclosky cosponsored similar legislation in the 108th Congress, but unfortunately the legislation was not enacted.
09.27.2006	Washington, D.C. – With the announcement that Governor Mitch Daniels has requested that President Bush declare Indiana a Major Disaster Area, Congressman Pete Visclosky has led an Indiana Congressional delegation effort calling on the President to quickly approve Governor Daniels’ request. The Visclosky-led letter from the delegation, which was signed by Senators Lugar and Bayh, as well as all nine Members of the House of Representatives, points out that the damage was sustained from the flooding and severe weather on September 12th and 13th warrants an expedited approval by the President. This approval would greatly help those in serious need of federal assistance. “The severe damage sustained in Northwest Indiana has harmed too many people, businesses, homes and properties, and I hope President Bush approves this disaster request immediately,” said Visclosky. “Prompt federal assistance will aid the people of Northwest Indiana in their efforts to recover from this disaster.” “The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance, and we fully support the Governor’s request,” wrote the Indiana delegation to the President. In addition to Lake County, the disaster request covers Vanderburgh County in Southwest Indiana, as the same storm system caused severe damages in both areas. Together, both counties allowed the state to meet the threshold for federal disaster assistance. [FULL TEXT OF INDIANA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION LETTER TO PRESIDENT BUSH BELOW] September 27, 2006 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to ask your expedited approval of Governor Mitch Daniels’ request for a Major Disaster Area Declaration for the State of Indiana following flooding caused by severe weather that occurred on September 12th and September 13th. The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance, and we fully support the Governor’s request. These rainfall events caused the greatest damages in the municipalities of Vanderburgh and Lake Counties. These two counties each experienced severe flash flooding causing substantial damage to property, homes, and businesses. In addition, destruction of public facilities and infrastructure is substantial. Based on the extent of the damage, timely federal assistance is needed to ensure that local government agencies and families impacted by these events are able to recover in a suitable manner. We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor’s full request as quickly as possible. We appreciate your serious consideration of this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need. Sincerely, Richard G. Lugar Evan Bayh United States Senator United States Senator Dan Burton Peter J. Visclosky Member of Congress Member of Congress Steve Buyer Mark Souder Member of Congress Member of Congress John Hostetler Julia Carson Member of Congress Member of Congress Mike Pence Chris Chocola Member of Congress Member of Congress Mike Sodrel Member of Congress
07.29.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky opposed the Pension legislation passed by the House early this morning, saying the legislation does little to stop the practice of pension dumping, and fails to give hard-working employees the same rights as the corporate CEO’s. Despite Visclosky’s opposition, the legislation passed by a vote of 279-131. “Once again, this Congress has missed an opportunity to crack down on companies that dump their pensions just to boost their profit margin, and it has failed to give employees the same pension rights that corporate executives currently enjoy,” said Visclosky. “In Northwest Indiana, we know what the loss of pensions can do to our area. We know that the men and women who work hard deserve the benefits they were promised. Unfortunately, this Congress continues to push an agenda that will make it easier for both white and blue collar employees to lose their pension security.” To strengthen our nation’s pension system, Visclosky introduced comprehensive pension reform legislation known as the “Employees Pension Security Act” (HR 4055) last October. The legislation has four provisions, designed to give employees more information on the health of their pension and create more accountability for the companies that engage in dumping their pension responsibilities. The legislation that was passed this morning, however, does little to stop companies from dumping their pension responsibilities. Instead, the legislation allows companies that currently are not meeting their pension responsibilities the opportunity to freeze future benefit increases. The current version of the legislation does not go far enough in strengthening pension security by way of Visclosky’s four common-sense pension reforms: Reform 1: Requires Single-Employers to Include Employee Representatives This provision would give employee representatives a voice in how their pension is managed and provide pensioners with more information on the health of their pension system. Reform 2: Disclosing the Financial Health of Pension Plans This section requires that plan sponsors furnish pension participants with a standardized and current benefit statement at least once every three years, providing pensioners with a more complete understanding of the state of their pension, and help them to plan for their retirement. Section 3: Strengthening Employee Protections when Companies Abuse the Bankruptcy Process to Dump Pensions This section reforms employee retirement law to protect pensioners from companies that abuse the bankruptcy and termination process to dump their pension obligations, even if they can be saved. The legislation would require companies to identify and disclose alternatives to dumping their pension obligations. Section 4: Recovering the “Gap” between Original Pension Plan Payments and the Amount Paid after the Government Takes over a Pension Plan After a company dumps their pension obligations, this provision keeps the company financially responsible for the difference between what was originally promised to pensioners, and the pension they are actually receiving from the government. Visclosky pointed to the bankruptcies of local steel companies, national airlines, and auto parts manufacturer Delphi as proof that companies are increasingly using the bankruptcy system to dump their pension responsibilities. “Growing up in the Glen Park section of Gary, I remember when everyone had a pension. The pension system today, which protects the retirement security of over 44 million workers, retirees, and their families, is at a tipping point,” said Visclosky. “We have seen steel, auto, and other manufacturing companies file for bankruptcy to break their pension obligations, and Congress has yet to address the root of the problem.”
07.20.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today expressed his outrage that as American jobs continue to be shipped overseas, President Bush and the Republican controlled Congress are pushing trade policies that put American workers at a competitive disadvantage. Visclosky cited the free trade agreement with the country of Oman, which is expected to pass in the House later today, as the latest in a long series of trade policies that benefit other countries more than American workers. “Our existing trade agreements have caused good-paying American jobs to be shipped overseas. Instead of fighting for American workers, this administration is working to expand the reckless policies that put good-paying American jobs at risk,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Time and time again, these free trade agreements have proven to be unfair to the American worker.” Visclosky, who has pushed for strong and fair trade laws, believes that trade can lead to economic growth, but the Oman Free Trade Agreement would fail to comply with basic International Labor Organization (ILO) standards such as: 1) the lack of existence of real labor unions and 2) the lack of laws that prohibit employers from confiscating foreign workers’ documents, which enables human trafficking and forced labor conditions. Further, Visclosky points out that our trade agreements have led to a skyrocketing trade deficit that is on track to climb to $815 billion in 2006 – exceeding 2005’s record-breaking deficit with the U.S. importing $2 billion more in goods and services everyday than what is exported. “This trade agreement is another step in the race toward the bottom,” said Visclosky. “It makes Americans compete unfairly with exploited foreign labor, and it will continue to allow our jobs to be sent overseas.”
06.20.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana’s Drug Demand Reduction Program is slated to receive $1 million in funding as part of the House Defense Appropriations bill. The Drug Demand Reduction Program is run by the Indiana National Guard, and will provide anti-drug programming for area students in Northwest Indiana. “In order to create the best quality of life possible in Northwest Indiana, our children and our communities must be safe from drugs,” said Visclosky. “The Drug Demand Reduction Program will offer after-school programming that gives area youth positive alternatives, and it will make a difference in the future of Northwest Indiana. The Indiana National Guard is one of ten states selected to conduct a new anti-drug pilot program called, “Stay on Track.” The Stay on Track Program is an interactive curriculum for students, parents, teachers and National Guardsmen designed to provide Drug Education to students in sixth through eighth grade. Each student will have 27 hours of interactive drug education after completing the three year Stay on Track program. Already, over 25 elementary and middle schools and 7,000 students are signed up for this program in the 1st U.S District for the next school year. Part of the funding secured by Visclosky will go toward Stay on Track programming activities in Northwest Indiana. “These are our communities, these are our kids, and the Indiana National Guard is delighted to be part of such a great team dedicated to combating illegal drug use,” said Lt. Col. Joseph Luckett, who overseas the Drug Demand Reduction Program. “Our thanks go out to Congressman Visclosky for his commitment to anti-drug efforts in Northwest Indiana.” The Drug Demand Reduction Program has received $7.5 million to date. Additionally, last week Visclosky announced the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) was slated to receive $3 million to help combat drug and gang-related crime as part of a separate House Appropriations Bill.
06.15.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) will receive $3 million to help combat drug and gang-related crime. The funding is part of the House Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, and will provide local law enforcement with additional resources to keep Northwest Indiana communities safe. “In order to create new jobs and provide economic opportunity, we must have safe communities,” said Congressman Visclosky. “HIDTA has been an effective tool in fighting back against crime, and I am pleased to announce this funding for the coming year.” Leo Arreguin, Director of the Lake County HIDTA concurs. “Without the support of Congressman Visclosky, HIDTA would not be able to conduct its crime reduction activities.” The Lake County HIDTA was created in 1997. According to Arreguin, the overall return-on-investment has been $7.73 in assets and street value of narcotics seized for every dollar budgeted to HIDTA. Including the $3 million announced by Visclosky today, HIDTA has received $33.1 million to date. The past year, HIDTA had success in attacking drug-related crime, as well as in reorganizing the Intelligence Support Center (ISC), which is a fully capable center supporting all federal, state, and local agencies in the region. From January 1997 to November 2005 (the most recent available date), HIDTA has made 2,478 arrests, seized over 30,000 pounds of marijuana, over 3,000 pounds of cocaine, 13.2 pounds of heroin, and 112 pounds of methamphetamine. HIDTA has also confiscated over 1,300 guns, 40 silencers, $4.05 million in currency, $8.25 million in property, and recovered $495,000 in stolen property.
06.14.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today will take U.S. Trade and Commerce officials to task for doing little to stop illegal Chinese trade activities that lead to the outsourcing of American jobs, and cause great harm to the local steel industry. Instead of immediately implementing strict trade policies aimed to protect and create American jobs, Visclosky expressed outrage that this administration instead has chosen a go slow approach that includes studies and dialogue rather than fast action. “Talk is cheap. Instead of studying the obvious, we need to immediately implement fair-trading policies that will stop American jobs from being shipped overseas. We need trade policies that put American workers first. We already know that illegal trade activities by China continue to devastate the American manufacturing industry, yet this administration refuses to move quickly to save American jobs,” said Visclosky, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. Today’s Steel Caucus hearing is on the U.S.-China Joint Committee on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) Bilateral Steel Dialogue, which began in March of 2005. Since the “dialogue” began, there has been no substantive action taken, causing many to believe it is simply a ploy by the administration to deflect criticism over its pro-China trade policies. At today’s hearing, officials from the United States Department of Commerce and the Office of the United States Trade Representative will provide testimony on the “dialogue.” Bush Administration Fails to Recognize China’s Proven Record of Illegal Trade Part of Visclosky’s frustration with the lack of action stems from the fact that the Bush Administration has failed to recognize the proof that China’s illegal trade activities is hurting American workers. “In Northwest Indiana, we have first-hand knowledge of American jobs being shipped to China, whether it be the Chinese freight cars we see streaming out of our ports, or the closure of Magnequench in Valparaiso,” said Visclosky, referring to the local company that closed its local operations only to send the jobs to China. In addition to local examples, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has determined that China’s illegal trade activities have caused significant market disruption four times since 2002. In each of these instances, President Bush ignored the ITC’s recommendations and denied implementing relief. Most recently, in December of 2005 the President overturned an ITC anti-dumping order on Chinese Standard Pipe steel. Since that time, imports for Standard Pipe are up 45% over the same period in 2005, proving that aggressive action to protect American jobs must be taken now. “China is taking advantage of the Bush Administration’s trade policy, and it’s coming at the expense of American workers,” said Visclosky. While the Bush Administration is taking no action, the Chinese continue to dump steel into the U.S. marketplace. Imports from China are up almost 500,000 metric tons over the same period in 2005, and their overall trade surplus was $23.3 billion in the first quarter of 2006. “Instead of working immediately to save American jobs, this administration has actually helped China’s trade position,” said Visclosky. “It’s time to put American workers first and implement a trade policy that puts our country on a level playing field with China.”
06.14.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has secured $7.1 million in federal funding for economic development projects in Northwest Indiana, including the Gary/Chicago Airport, the South Shore Rail Line, and several local infrastructure projects. The funding, which is part of the House Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, will create jobs and boost the region’s quality of life, Visclosky says. “These funds for air, rail, trail and transportation projects continue the investment we are making in job creation, and in building the new economy in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. Under the legislation, the Gary/Chicago Airport will receive $1 million to go towards its expansion project. Since 2001, the Gary/Chicago Airport has received $15.6 million in federal appropriations. Separate from this Congressional funding, in February 2006 the Gary/Chicago Airport formally received approval from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for their expansion plans, which will provide $57.8 million to the airport over the next 10 years. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s efforts, the Gary/Chicago Airport will be able to continue the enhancements to our infrastructure,” said Paul Karas, Director of the Gary/Chicago Airport. “The Gary/Chicago airport is positioned to be an economic engine for Northwest Indiana.” Also included in the legislation is $1 million for South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Investment Plan. This funding will allow the Northern Indiana Commuter Transit District (NICTD) to continue making progress on the centralized traffic control and power distribution projects on the existing rail line, which operates more than 12,800 trains and carries more than 3.5 million passengers throughout the Chicago metropolitan area. To date, the South Shore Rail Line has received $32.5 million in federal funding. Gerald Hanas, General Manager of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) said this funding is a key component to helping NICTD achieve its long-term plans. “NICTD is working to improve our existing line as well as to expand our service areas, and thanks to the support of Congressman Visclosky, we will have more resources to achieve our goals.” Visclosky was also able to secure $400,000 to connect an existing trail in Hammond to the south tip of Wolf Lake. The extension of the trail will be from 129th Street to 136th Street, and will allow the for public access to forty acres of green space. The development of trails and public access linked to Northwest Indiana’s lakefronts is consistent with the Marquette Plan, Visclosky’s vision to enhance the south shore of Lake Michigan. Another trail system in Highland will also receive $250,000 for improvements. The funds will go toward the Highland portion of the Erie Lackawanna Trail, which is a multi-town trail, for enhanced lighting and other improvements. In Munster, Visclosky was able to secure $1.2 million for improvements to 45th Street. The goal of the project is to align 45th Street on both the east and west side of Calumet Avenue, allowing for continuous east-west traffic flow. Additionally, Valparaiso will receive $250,000 for streetscape and sidewalk improvements throughout the city. Also included in the legislation was $3 million for the Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). HIDTA was established to help combat drug and gang-related crime throughout Lake County, and has received $33.1 million to date.
05.30.2006	Portage, IN - The City of Portage hosted a groundbreaking today for a planned public beach, which is the first major project of the Marquette Plan, and will replace a decommissioned waste water treatment plant currently occupying the lakefront property. Attending the event were Portage Mayor Doug Olson; Congressman Pete Visclosky; Sharon Kelley, U.S. Steel Midwest Plant Manager; Tom Anderson, Executive Director, Save the Dunes Council; Dale Engquist, Superintendent of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, representatives from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Brandenburg Industrial Service Company, as well as multiple city officials and community groups from Portage. “Growing up in Portage, I’ve always believed the lakefront should be open for everyone to use and enjoy,” said Mayor Olson. “Today is a milestone for Portage and for Northwest Indiana, because we are taking action to enhance our lakefront.” The development of a public beach is part of Congressman Visclosky’s vision for a revitalized lakefront throughout Northwest Indiana, known as the Marquette Plan. Visclosky sees the Marquette Plan as a long-term economic development project that will improve the region’s quality of life for generations to come. “I applaud Mayor Olson for his diligence in turning an industrial property into one that can be enjoyed by everyone in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “The result of this group effort to enhance our lakefront will be more than a public beach. It will be a key component to attracting and retaining the jobs and businesses that will build a new economy in Northwest Indiana.” The Marquette Plan includes the cities of Whiting, Hammond, East Chicago, Gary and Portage, and has three guiding principles. First, 75 percent of the lakeshore should be opened to public use. Second, land directly on the lakefront should have a minimum setback of at least 200 feet from the lake. Third, there should be a continuous biking and walking trail from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of the City of Portage for all Northwest Indiana residents to enjoy. Tom Anderson, Executive Director of the Saves the Dunes Council, says the integrity of Lake Michigan’s shoreline should be maintained for future generations to enjoy. “Lake Michigan is one of our greatest resources in Northwest Indiana, and it is up to this generation to protect it for the next generation,” said Anderson. “I applaud all parties involved to make this a reality.” In order to proceed with this piece of the Marquette Plan, and remove the existing facility, Mayor Olson and Congressman Visclosky brought together all parties involved to get the lakefront project moving. The property was owned by National Steel, which was then acquired by United States Steel Corporation through bankruptcy proceeding. The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore (IDNL) then purchased the property from the bankruptcy trust. Under the agreement between all parties involved, National Steel had agreed to conduct clean-up to a higher standard than required, U.S. Steel agreed to pay the cost of linking to Portage’s wastewater treatment facility, and Visclosky secured federal funding for the National Park Service to acquire the 60 acre property. Portage will pay for the development of the property, and the maintenance of the public beach. “This project happened because everyone kept their eyes on the prize – a restored, public beach on Lake Michigan,” said Dale Engquist, Superintendent of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. “The National Lakeshore is glad to be a part of this exciting project.” “U.S. Steel is a proud partner in helping to enhance the quality of life in Northwest Indiana,” said Sharon Kelley, Plant Manager of the Midwest Plant in Portage. “When the public and private sector work together, like we did on this project, the winners are the people who live and work right here in the region.” “The Corps is pleased to be part of the team working to improve the environmental infrastructure in Northwest Indiana and we are looking forward to getting construction started on the first phase of the work here in Portage,” said Major Paul Owen, Deputy Commander for the Army Corps of Engineers, Chicago District. To help fund the remaining portion of the project, the City of Portage will ask the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority, the state body created specifically to advance major economic development projects such as the Marquette Plan, to complete the vision of a revitalized lakefront.
05.24.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive almost $47 million for major lakefront, environmental, and flood control projects throughout Northwest Indiana. The funding for the projects is part of the FY 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives today. Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said these projects, are a crucial piece for the long-term infrastructure needs of the region, and a key component to improving the quality of life throughout Northwest Indiana. “Whether it be getting people out of the flood plain, restoring our environment, or enhancing our lakefronts, these projects will strengthen our ability to attract new economic development, and lay the foundation for a new economy in Northwest Indiana.” Little Calumet Flood Control Visclosky secured $15.5 million for flood control on the Little Calumet River. Over the past 14 years, Visclosky has secured over $120.7 million for this vital project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. Additionally, Visclosky secured $4 million for the Cady Marsh Ditch project, which is the marsh-land offset necessary for the Little Calumet Flood Control Project. This $4 million should be enough to complete the Cady Marsh Ditch offset. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will help protect citizens and property for years to come, preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. “Too many people are in the flood plain, and from my perspective, the Little Calumet Flood Control project cannot finish soon enough,” said Congressman Visclosky. “Now that there is enough funding available to complete the marsh-land offset, it is my hope that the completion of the entire flood control project will also come soon.” Lakeshore and Environmental Enhancement Several projects benefiting lakes in Northwest Indiana will also receive funding under the legislation. Wolf Lake in Hammond will receive $2.9 million to complete its environmental restoration, which includes the reconstruction of wetlands and aquatic habitats. Wolf Lake’s eroded shoreline has been a detriment to many species, and the continuation of this project is of prime environmental concern. To date, Visclosky has secured a total of $6.9 million to assist with Wolf Lake restoration. “Enhancing our lakes in Northwest Indiana will not only help our local environment, but it will also provide the quality of life investments that attract and retain people and businesses throughout the region,” said Visclosky, who has long been a champion of lakeshore enhancement under his Marquette Plan. Congressman Visclosky also secured $1 million to fund operations at the Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project along the Indiana Dunes. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted by harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and reverse its effects to protect the beaches for future generations. Another Northwest Indiana lake, Cedar Lake, will receive $180,000 for environmental improvements, including deepening the lake and restoring its natural ecosystem. Visclosky has secured $680,000 since 2004 for Cedar Lake. Visclosky was able to secure $2.8 million for Burns Waterway Harbor in Porter County for continued operation and maintenance. To date, Visclosky has secured $26.965 million for this project. The Grand Calumet River will receive $750,000 for a feasibility study to determine how best to conduct clean-up activities. This project has received $3.65 million to date. The Indiana Harbor in East Chicago will also receive $20.25 million for the construction of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF). In May of 2005, Visclosky announced that the federal government will pay the full amount for the CDF, relieving East Chicago taxpayers of the $40 million local expense. At the time, Visclosky’s office announced that full federal funding means the project will be “shifting into high gear and saving local taxpayer dollars.” The Indiana Harbor will also receive $545,000 for operation, maintenance and dredging.
05.19.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that he has secured $1 million for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore’s (IDNL) Land Acquisition program, giving a boost to the program tasked with preserving and restoring Indiana precious lakeshore. The funding for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore was part of the Interior Appropriations bill approved by the House last night, and is part of Visclosky’s vision for investing in Northwest Indiana’s natural resources. “Our lakeshore will be more valuable tomorrow than it is today,” said Congressman Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. “We must move quickly to restore the Dunes and provide the residents of Northwest Indiana with an opportunity to enjoy their lake.” Tom Anderson, Executive Director of the Save the Dunes Council, a conservation organization committed to maintaining and restoring the natural environment of the Indiana Dunes region, said that additional land acquisition is an investment in the future. “The Dunes are jewel in the crown of Northwest Indiana, and restoring more acres to their natural condition will enhance our quality of life for generations to come,” said Anderson. “The Save the Dunes Council thanks Congressman Visclosky for his work to enhance the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore.” In order for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to realize is its authorized boundaries, it is necessary to acquire additional land. Overall, the total number of remaining acres within the National Lakeshore boundary that has yet to be acquired totals approximately 4,300 acres. 2,175 of these acres are owned by the State of Indiana for the Indiana State Park. Once the appropriations bill is signed into law, the total amount of funding for land acquisition at the IDNL will be $30.368 million. The federal government has not provided funding for land acquisition since 2003. Despite the gap in federal support, IDNL has had resources available to acquire new land, but in 2005, $875,000 was rescinded from IDNL due to inactivity. IDNL was authorized by Congress in 1966, and runs for nearly 25 miles along southern Lake Michigan, bordered by Michigan City, Indiana on the east, and Gary on the west. In 1986 and 1992, Congressman Visclosky authored legislation to expand the Dunes, resulting in the addition of more than 2,000 acres to the National Lakeshore. The park contains approximately 15,000 acres, 2,182 of which are located in Indiana Dunes State Park and managed by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. In addition to the funding for the Dunes, Visclosky was also able to secure $200,000 for the restoration of St. Joseph’s Theatre at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer, and $500,000 for sewer infrastructure improvements in Merrillville.
05.19.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that St. Joseph’s College will receive $200,000 for the restoration of the historic theatre in the Arts and Science Building, as part of the FY 2007 Interior Appropriations Bill approved by the House of Representatives. According to Visclosky, investing in the St. Joseph Theatre is part of enhancing the quality of life in Rensselaer while reducing expenses for St. Joseph’s College. “To ensure the success of future generations, we must invest in their education,” said Visclosky. “Across Indiana and the country, our colleges and universities are being asked to stretch budgets while expanding services, and I am happy to help offset costs while restoring a key piece of St. Joseph’s College’s history.” St. Joseph’s President, Ernest R. Mills III, said the support at the federal level is greatly appreciated. “The theatre is a remarkable facility. We are grateful for the help and support of Congressman Visclosky in securing funding.” The theatre was built in 1914 and designed in the eclectic revival style referred to as Collegiate Gothic. It is located in the College's historic district. The goal of the project is to restore the theatre as an attractive, useful centerpiece for the college and Rensselaer while retaining its notable contribution among historic sites and structures in the State of Indiana. The lights, drapes, proscenium, walls, ceiling, and the lobby of the theatre will be restored with these funds. The funding for the project will be available once the legislation passes the Senate and is signed into law by the President. St. Joseph’s College, named a “character-building college” by the Templeton Foundation and a “best Midwestern college” by the Princeton Review, is a four-year, Catholic, liberal arts college offering 74 major, minor and pre-professional programs. Founded and sponsored by the Missionaries of the Precious Blood, SJC is located in Rensselaer, Indiana, approximately 90 minutes from both Chicago and Indianapolis, on a park-like campus of 180 acres and has an enrollment of over 1,000 students.
05.10.2006	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and U.S. Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) have joined together to host a job fair on Saturday, June 17, 2006, from 10:00AM to 3:00PM in the Celebrity East and Center Ballrooms at the Radisson Hotel at Star Plaza in Merrillville, Indiana. The Radisson is located near the intersection of I-65 and U.S. 30. The Lugar Visclosky Job Fair will host federal, state and local security and law enforcement agencies, high tech firms, health care organizations, financial institutions, big industry, and various other private and public entities.
05.03.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today backed legislation that would impose stiff penalties for companies who engage in gas price gouging while the people of Northwest Indiana continue to pay record prices at the pump. Visclosky said the legislation to prohibit fuel price gouging, which passed the House today, is long overdue, considering the cost that rising gas prices have on Hoosier families. “For too long, the hard-working people of Northwest Indiana have been paying too much at the pump while big oil companies are raking in record profits,” said Visclosky. “It is time to hold price-gougers accountable for their unscrupulous actions, as relief cannot come soon enough.” In addition to banning price gouging on the sale of oil, gasoline, diesel, home heating oil and biofuels, the legislation sets penalties for such price gouging, and permits states to bring lawsuits against wholesalers or retailers for price gouging. It also would provide the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) with jurisdiction to enforce regulations against price gouging in fuel sales. Stiffer Fines for Price Gougers For violations at the wholesale and retail levels, the measure sets fines of three times the difference between the price charged and the fair market value of the fuel. For price gouging at the wholesale level, it sets an additional fine of up to $3 million per day in cases of continuing violations. The bill requires that fines collected be deposited into state accounts designed to compensate consumers for unfair business practices, or in the general treasury if no such state account exists. Under current law, the FTC can levy fines of up to only $10,000 per incidence. The measure allows the Justice Department to bring criminal charges against individuals or businesses for price gouging in the sale of fuels. It sets criminal penalties of two years in prison and up to $150 million in fines for price gouging at the wholesale level, and two years in prison and fines of up to $2 million for price gouging at the retail level. The bill also allows state attorneys general to file lawsuits on behalf of state residents against retailers or wholesalers for price gouging. “A clear signal must be sent that price gouging will not be tolerated. Gas prices have doubled in the last five years, oil company profits have tripled in the past three years, and the time is past due to provide relief at the pump for the people of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky, pointing out that while people in Hammond, Merrillville and Valparaiso are paying three dollars a gallon for gas, oil companies like ExxonMobil posted record profits of $8.4 billion in the first three months of 2006, and outgoing ExxonMobil CEO Lee Raymond received a $400 million retirement package. Visclosky Fighting to Lower Gas Prices Congressman Visclosky has been fighting to lower fuel prices since prices skyrocketed last year. Visclosky has co-sponsored legislation known as the Gas Price Spike Act that would eliminate price gouging by placing a windfall profits tax on oil companies that charge consumers excessive prices based on historical profits. In September, Visclosky joined with 95 other members of Congress, requesting that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and FTC Chairwoman Deborah Majoras begin an immediate investigation into possible wrong-doing by industries that are making record profits at the expense of average American families.
04.26.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has announced he will testify on Thursday, April 27th before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in support of existing fair-trade policies that will keep local steel jobs in Gary, East Chicago and Portage from being shipped overseas. At the hearing, the ITC will conduct a five-year review of an antidumping order on tin- and chromium-coated steel sheet (tin mill) from Japan, which puts American steel producers on a level playing field. Three of the seven Tin Mill facilities in the United States are located in Northwest Indiana, at US Steel operations in Gary, East Chicago, and Portage. “If these fair-trading policies are revoked, more good-paying American jobs will be shipped overseas, and the steel industry in Northwest Indiana will be forced to compete against those who illegally dump steel,” said Visclosky, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “To keep the playing field level, the ITC must uphold the existing policies.” The program was implemented in 2000, after the ITC found that Japanese tin mill imports surged by over 80 percent from 1997 to 1999, causing American steel manufacturers to lose $132.5 million in 1999 alone. Based on this information, the ITC determined that illegally dumped Japanese imports had caused material injury. Since the ITC’s anti-dumping order was put into effect, Japanese Tin Mill imports have gone from 329,000 tons in 1999 to virtually no imports today. Jim Robinson, District 7 Director for the United Steel Workers echoes Congressman Visclosky’s call for the ITC to uphold its existing policies. “The steel industry in Northwest Indiana has been stronger in the last few years because fair trading policies have kept unfairly dumped steel from entering the marketplace,” said Robinson. “To strengthen the American steel industry, and keep our local steelworkers employed, the U.S. International Trade Commission must maintain these existing policies.” In his prepared remarks, Congressman Visclosky will testify that it is necessary to uphold and enforce the trade laws that keep illegally dumped steel from entering the United States. “The weakening of our trade laws has been an attack on the American middle-class. Jobs have been shipped overseas, American manufacturing facilities have been shuttered, hard working men and women have lost their jobs and their pensions. We can’t have a viable economy if we’re all making fries and flipping hamburgers. “The U.S. tin mill industry is a competitive, high-end industry. It produces products that are indispensable to this country. It is a key component of our manufacturing backbone, which is an essential base to the U.S. economy. I am confident that by ensuring a level playing field, the Commission will set the stage for this industry to flourish, not just survive. "I urge you to keep this relief in place, and I thank you on behalf of workers not only in Indiana’s First Congressional District, but across the country.”
04.12.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky will be hosting his annual Military Academy Night for prospective students interested in attending one of the five United States Military Academies on Thursday, April 20, 2006 from 6:00 – 8:30 pm at the NiSource Cafeteria located at 801 East 86th Avenue in Merrillville, Indiana. Congressman Visclosky will be on hand to welcome the prospective candidates. “It is always an honor for me to nominate our future leaders to these great institutions,” said Visclosky. “Academy Night is a great opportunity for bright young Northwest Indiana residents to learn about the opportunities our military academies offer.” The informational session is open to high school freshman, sophomores and juniors, along with parents, from the First Congressional District who are interested in learning about educational opportunities and receiving application information at the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London In addition to receiving information on the military academies, attendees will have the opportunity to talk directly with representatives of the service academies as well as the local academy board. Attendees will also hear the perspectives of parents of students attending a service academy as well as a local student, Yoshikoson Haddon, who has taken part in the process and will be attending the U.S. Naval Academy prep school in the fall.
04.06.2006	Washington, D.C. – With the House of Representatives due to consider President Bush’s 2007 budget proposal tomorrow, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced his opposition to the reckless plan, saying it would encourage even more companies to ship American jobs overseas. “This budget will cause more American jobs to be sent to countries like China,” said Visclosky. “The skyrocketing debt that this Administration calls for makes it more expensive and riskier for companies to invest in our country, which adds even greater pressure to ship their jobs abroad.” President Bush’s budget outlines a $354 billion deficit in 2007 alone. These funds will add even more to the existing $8.1 trillion national debt. What’s more is that the President’s budget predicts the national debt will rise to $11.5 trillion by 2011, strapping future generations with crippling financial liabilities. “Just as outrageous as this Administration’s support for outsourcing jobs is their complete lack of respect for our children’s generation,” said Visclosky. “By strapping future generations with trillions of dollars of debt, this President is putting our country at a long-term strategic disadvantage.” This disadvantage, according to Visclosky, is made worse by the fact that the U.S. relies heavily on foreign investors to buy up ever increasing amounts of our debt. Currently, 45 percent of the U.S. publicly held debt is held by foreign investors, including foreign governments like China and Russia. “This growing reliance on foreign countries to finance our irresponsible budget deficits makes our country more vulnerable to international pressures. The time is past due for this Administration and this Republican-led Congress to put American workers first, and develop a sane budget policy that doesn’t give away our future to foreign governments.”
01.16.2006	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Department of Transportation has announced its intention to approve the Gary/Chicago Airport’s (GCA’s) Letter of Intent Application, which is expected to provide $57.8 million for improvements and expansion that will help the GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. Federal, state and local elected officials met at the airport today to announce the expected approval, which will bring as many as 320 new jobs to the Gary area while also providing crucial long-term economic development opportunities for all of Northwest Indiana. The approval of the Letter of Intent (LOI) funding means that the GCA will no longer be dependent upon yearly funding allocations from Congress and instead will be able to move forward with long-term efforts outlined in its 20-year Master Plan. The funding will be provided to the GCA over ten years and will be used for projects including railroad relocation and runway extensions. These projects are especially crucial to the future growth of the airport, as the GCA is currently one of 300 airports nationwide that does not meet the latest runway safety standards. “Today’s announcement is the result of years of work, and it is proof of the difference we can make by working together with people from both sides of the aisle,” said Senator Bayh, who worked with Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL) to include language in a transportation appropriations bill ordering the Federal Aviation Administration to give priority attention to the airport’s LOI in 2003. “The approval of this funding will create more than 300 new jobs in Gary and will ensure that the GCA can secure its place as the third major airport in the region. I was proud to work with Senator Shelby to get the ball rolling and with the rest of the Indiana delegation throughout the following process.” Gary Mayor Scott L. King credits the collaborative effort of elected officials at the federal, state and local levels for this success. Mayor King stated, “The FAA's approval of the Gary/Chicago Airport's Letter of Intent is good news for Gary. The success was a product of every elected official representing our region working absolutely in concert together. It is these types of partnerships that will continue to result in positive outcomes for Gary and Northwest Indiana.” “This funding is essential for the development and expansion of Gary/Chicago Airport and will work to increase mobility in the Region, as well as foster economic development in Lake County,” said U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar. “I appreciate the leadership of Pete Visclosky and Mayor King in advocating the continued development of the Gary/Chicago Airport and I also appreciate having an opportunity to work with Senator Bayh and Governor Daniels to move this process forward.” “In my talks with Secretary Mineta about this LOI, I could tell he sees the same great potential we all do for the airport and for a surge of growth in Northwest Indiana,” said Governor Mitch Daniels. “We've got years of work ahead, but today's decision and the creation of the Regional Development Authority gives us the basis to move from talk to action, dreaming to digging.” “The airport is the cornerstone of the new economy in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “Throughout the process, Mayor King, Governor Daniels, and Senators Bayh and Lugar have all worked together in support of this invaluable resource. The Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA) is in place to provide the non-federal funds necessary to access this federal investment, and I believe the end result will be an improved quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana.” The Department of Transportation has sent letters to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees outlining the Federal Aviation Administration’s proposed investment in the GCA. As a formality, the Committees now have 30 days to review the letters, after which Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta is expected to make the formal offer to the City of Gary.
01.05.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced the schedule for the 25 Town Forums he will be holding throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District during the month of January. Each year Visclosky holds forums throughout the region to hear directly from constituents and provide an update on the issues facing Congress and Northwest Indiana. “From stopping the outsourcing of American jobs and protecting retirement security, to ensuring our troops have the tools they need to do their job, I look forward to discussing the issues of the day with people of Northwest Indiana,” Visclosky said. “I always enjoy these town forums, because they are a great way to hear directly from constituents.” Visclosky has scheduled a town forum in every region of the district. The forums are grouped to provide people several options to speak with Congressman Visclosky in their own town or in a near by community. Just like in year’s past, a local middle or high school student will have the opportunity to introduce Congressman Visclosky in his or her community and lead the crowd in the Pledge of Allegiance. “I am honored that these students are taking an active role in their community by participating in the town forums,” said Visclosky. “These young leaders are the future of Northwest Indiana, and I thank each of them for taking a leading role in these public meetings.” Congressman Visclosky’s Town Forum Schedule for 2006: Monday, January 9, 2006 2:30 p.m. – Chesterton: Westchester Public Library, 100 West Indiana Avenue, Chesterton Introduction by Jake Kintzel, 8th Grader at Chesterton Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Valparaiso: Porter County Commissioner’s Chambers, 155 Indiana Avenue, Room 205 Introduction by Emily Moore, 8th Grader at Benjamin Franklin Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Portage: Portage Library, 2665 Irving Street, Portage Introduction by Holly Tharp, 8th Grader at Willow Creek Middle School Tuesday, January 10, 2006 11:00 a.m. – Hammond: Main Library, 564 State Street, Hammond Introduction by Isis Drosos, 8th Grader at George Rogers Clark Middle School 2:30 p.m. – Schererville: Dyer/Schererville Library, 1001 West Lincolnway, Schererville Introduction by Grant McCormack, 8th Grader, Grimmer Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Dyer: Dyer Town Hall, One Town Square, Dyer Introduction by Chris Lopez, 8th Grader at Kahler Middle School 7:30 p.m. – St. John: Lake Central Freshman Center, LGI Room, Entrance E, 8260 Wicker Avenue Introduction by Emily Hogg, 8th Grader at Grimmer Middle School Wednesday, January 11, 2006 11:00 a.m. – Highland: Highland Recreational Center (Lincoln Center), Room 17, 2450 Lincoln Street Introduction by Kelly Hanft, 8th Grader at Highland Middle School *Sign language interpreter will be available. 5:30 p.m. – Hammond: EB-Hayward Branch Library, 1212 172nd Street, Hammond Introduction by TaShan Brown, 7th Grader at Clark Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Whiting: Whiting Community Center, 1938 Clark Street, Whiting Introduction by Ryan Augustyn, 8th Grader at Whiting Middle School Thursday, January 12, 2006 2:30 p.m. – Munster: Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road, Munster Introduction by Jelena Grozdanich, 8th Grader at Wilbur Wright Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Crown Point: Crown Point Civic Center, 101 South East Street, Crown Point Introduction by Brenna J. Wermers, 8th Grader at Robert A. Taft Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Merrillville: Merrillville High School, 276 East 68th Place, Merrillville Introduction by Sarah Martin, 8th Grader at Pierce Middle School *Sign language interpreter will be available. Friday, January 13, 2006 2:30 p.m. – Gary: Gary Wildermuth Library, 501 South Lake Street, Gary Introduction by Nikki Jeter, 6th Grader at Kennedy King Elementary School 5:30 p.m. – Gary: Gary Public Safety Center, 555 Polk Street, Gary Introduction by Megan Smith, 8th Grader at Tolleston Middle School 7:30 p.m. – East Chicago: East Chicago City Hall, 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard, East Chicago Introduction by Allante Williams, 8th Grader at Block Junior High School Saturday, January 14, 2006 10:30 a.m. EST (9:30 am CST) – Fowler: Benton County Library, 102 North 3rd Street, Fowler Introduction by Chelsey Cripe, 8th Grader at Benton Central Junior-Senior High School 1:00 p.m. CST – Morocco: Newton County Municipal Center, 4117 South 240 West, Morocco Introduction by Courtney Raineford and Shelby Crone, 7th Graders at North Newton Junior Senior High School 3:30 p.m. CST – Lowell: Lowell Town Hall, 501 East Main Street, Lowell Introduction by Dee Anna Woroszylo, 8th Grader at Lowell Middle School Wednesday, January 18, 2006 2:30 p.m. – Lake Station: Lake Station City Hall Council Chambers, 3625 Central Avenue Introduction by Nikieia Fitzpatrick, 11th Grader at Edison Junior-Senior High School 5:30 p.m. – Hobart: Hobart Library, 414 Main Street, Hobart Introduction by Jacob Lindsey, 8th Grader at Hobart Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Griffith: Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street, Griffith Introduction by Kara Buchholz, 8th Grader at Griffith Middle School Thursday, January 19, 2006 12:00 p.m. – Hebron: Hebron Library, 201 West Sigler Street, Hebron Introduction by Alexandria Lau, 8th Grader at Hebron Middle School 2:30 p.m. – Demotte: Demotte Town Hall, 112 Carnation Street, SE, Demotte Introduction by Chet Turnbeaugh, 8th Grader at Kankakee Valley Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Rensselaer: Jasper County Fair Grounds Community Center, 2671 W. State Rd.114 Introduction by Patrick Monfort, 8th Grader at Rensselaer Middle School
01.03.2006	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky criticized President Bush today for continuing a failed trade policy that encourages the outsourcing of American steel jobs to China. Bush recently rejected the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) recommendations to provide relief to American pipe steel producers, who are suffering from Chinese steel that is flooding the U.S. marketplace. “This misguided decision by President Bush will encourage the outsourcing of American steel jobs to China, and it will do nothing to protect American steel manufactures from surging Chinese imports,” said Visclosky, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “We should be shipping our products overseas, not our jobs.” Bush’s decision follows a petition filed by seven U.S. pipe producers and the United Steelworkers on August 2, 2005 that domestic pipe producers have been adversely affected by a surge in Chinese steel, and that Section 421 relief, which would limit the amount of steel that can be imported from China, was necessary. The ITC agreed with the petitioners that a market disruption occurred due to a surge in imports from China and the President was to make the final decision by the end of 2005. “Imports have skyrocketed, people have lost jobs, and yet the administration has chosen to do nothing, and let the American steel industry compete against unfairly traded Chinese steel,” said Visclosky. Visclosky Led Effort to Protect American Steel Manufacturers Prior to President Bush’s decision that will encourage steel jobs to be outsourced to China, Congressman Visclosky led a Congressional effort, along with 61 other members of Congress, calling on Bush to protect American steel jobs and implement the ITC recommended relief, citing the fact that this unique trade remedy mechanism was included by Congress in the U.S. – China Relations Act of 2000 precisely to respond to cases such as this one. In 2004, imports of standard pipe from China surged by over 2,600 percent; from 10,000 tons in 2002 to 270,000 tons in 2004. These same imports are on track to exceed 380,000 tons in 2005. Under Section 421 relief, which the President rejected, China would be limited to import only 90,000 tons of standard pipe per year. Additionally, plants in Portland, Oregon and Bossier City, Louisiana have been shuttered and plant closings are imminent in Arizona, Arkansas, California, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee without immediate relief under Section 421. These surging imports are also threatening the local steel industry, including Allied Tube and Conduit in Harvey, Illinois, which employs hundreds of people from Northwest Indiana.
12.16.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today fought to protect employees from companies that dump their pension responsibilities onto the backs of taxpayers. Unfortunately, the Republican Congress rejected his common-sense pension reforms and passed a weaker bill that does little to provide employees with information on the health of their pension and to stop companies from dumping the pensions owed to American workers and retirees. “Pensions are under attack and this Congress has missed an opportunity to stop companies from dumping their pension responsibilities onto the backs of taxpayers,” said Visclosky. “Too many people in Northwest Indiana have already suffered from the loss of pensions and unless we address this problem immediately, more families throughout the country will be affected. Our nation is facing a pension crisis that will harm both white and blue collar employees who spent their lives paying into a pension they were promised, and it is time to fix this problem.” Visclosky’s legislation has four pension-strengthening provisions, designed to give employees more information on the health of their pension and create more accountability for the companies that engage in dumping their pension responsibilities. In his efforts to have the House consider his proposals, Visclosky made a pitch for each of the four sections of his legislation to be included in the weaker Republican version of the bill. After Visclosky’s attempts were rejected at the committee level, he then took to the floor of the House to make his case that Congress must do more to protect our pension system. “I am old enough to remember a time when everyone on my block in the Glen Park section of Gary, Indiana had a pension. The defined benefit pension system today, which protects the retirement security of over 44 million workers, retirees, and their families, is at a critical juncture,” said Visclosky in his floor statement, who then referenced the hardships pension dumping has caused families in Northwest Indiana. “In the five years leading up to the closings of LTV and Bethlehem Steel, steel companies in North America were filing for bankruptcy in record numbers, using the bankruptcy courts to break their contractual obligations and impose cuts or outright elimination of jobs, benefits, pensions and wages of steelworkers. In 2000, LTV Steel filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for protection from its creditors, including it’s obligations to its pension plan. In 2002, LTV filed Section 7 bankruptcy, which liquidated its assets. Today’s legislation would put additional pressure on an agency that is already picking up the slack because corporate America has used them as a dumping ground.” Visclosky also pointed to the recent bankruptcy of Delphi as proof that companies are dumping their pension as part of a growing and controversial management technique, not out of necessity, citing the fact that Delphi’s CEO, Robert Miller, headed Bethlehem Steel’s efforts to dump their pension responsibilities. Visclosky’s proposal to strengthen pensions consists of a four-part legislative reform package: Section 1: Requires Single-Employers to Include Employee Representatives This provision would give employee representatives a voice in how their pension is managed and provide pensioners with more information on the health of their pension system. Section 2: Disclosing the Financial Health of Pension Plans This section requires that plan sponsors furnish pension participants with a standardized and current benefit statement at least once every three years. This provision will provide pensioners with a more complete understanding of the state of their pension, and help them to plan for their retirement. Section 3: Strengthening Employee Protections when Companies Abuse the Bankruptcy Process to Dump Pensions This section reforms employee retirement law to protect pensioners from companies that abuse the bankruptcy and termination process to dump their pension obligations, even if they can be saved. The legislation would require companies to identify and disclose alternatives to dumping their pension obligations. Section 4: Recovering the “Gap” between Original Pension Plan Payments and the Amount Paid after the Government Takes over a Pension Plan After a company dumps their pension obligations, this provision keeps the company financially responsible for the difference between what was originally promised to pensioners, and the pension they are actually receiving from the government. According to Visclosky, enacting these common-sense pension reforms will protect the retirement security for millions of American families, and provide greater economic stability for the country. “The traditional three legs of retirement are off balance, and they need to be stabilized. Social Security, personal savings and pension plans all face challenges. We cannot let this opportunity to strengthen our pension system pass.” Visclosky originally introduced his pension reform legislation, known as the “Employees Pension Security Act of 2005” (H.R. 4055) in October of 2005.
12.14.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to welcome home the men and women serving in the 113th Battalion, saying these “men and women have shown a dedication to their mission, and a commitment to their country that truly is as strong as steel.” Below is the speech given by Congressman Visclosky. “Mr. Speaker, It is with great pride that I rise today to pay tribute to the 113th Engineer Battalion of the Indiana Army National Guard, and welcome them home after one year of serving our country heroically in Iraq. “Upon arrival, the 113th was nicknamed the “Ironman Battalion” because of their links to Northwest Indiana’s steel industry. And throughout the past year, these Iron men and women have shown a dedication to their mission, and a commitment to their country that truly is as strong as steel. “Today Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to announce that soldiers of the 113th are coming home – coming home to be with their family and friends; coming home to be with their wives, husbands, sons, daughters, mothers and fathers. “Based in Mosul, Iraq since last year, the soldiers of the 113th made heroic missions a part of their daily routine. They located and detonated improvised explosive devices, reinforced police stations and conducted combat patrols. “The service of these men and women has not been without sacrifice. Over 40 purple hearts have been awarded to the 113th battalion, each serving as a reminder of the dangers our soldiers face every day. “Mr. Speaker, I welcome these soldiers home. I thank them for their service and sacrifice to our nation, and I pledge that our support for them is equal to the sacrifice they have shown our country.”
12.13.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today called on House Armed Service Committee leaders to provide income replacement payments of up to $3,000 per month to members of the National Guard and Reserve who encounter an income loss during extended mobilizations. According to Visclosky, the men and women who serve our country in uniform should not be punished financially for serving their country. “Our soldiers have done everything that’s been asked of them, and they’ve done so while serving in harm’s way, thousands of miles away from family and friends. Now it is time for the U.S. to make sure our soldiers and their families are not punished because of their service to our country.” Visclosky said it is vital for House Armed Service Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter and Ranking Member Ike Skelton to support this income loss provision, as the Senate has already included the provision in the FY 2006 Defense Authorization Bill, which is currently in conference and expected to be passed in the coming weeks. In a letter to the Armed Service Committee leaders, Visclosky and 52 other Members of Congress pointed out that this provision will provide critical assistance to the members of the National Guard and Reserve serving in Iraq and Afghanistan whose families, in some cases, are struggling to keep up with mortgage, car, child care, and education payments on substantially less income than they enjoyed as civilians prior to extended deployments. 51% of the members of the National Guard and Reserve report that they suffer a loss of income when mobilized for long periods of active duty because their military pay is less than their civilian pay. The average financial hardship for National Guard and Reservists is $4,400 per year, and 10% report losing more than $2,500 a month. “The inclusion of this provision in the final conference report is essential to the continued prosecution of our war on terrorism, to preserving our National Guard and Reserve as a vital force in defending our country, and defending our moral obligation to those who defend our nation,” wrote Visclosky and the Congressional delegation. “If adopted, it will help those citizens who have placed themselves in harm’s way at our bidding from being forced to choose between doing right by their loved ones and doing right by our country.”
12.01.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he has led a Congressional effort urging President Bush to protect American steel jobs by fighting against Chinese steel that has been illegally dumped into the U.S. According to Visclosky, by not acting to stop the flow of imported steel, the President is encouraging American steel operations to outsource their steel jobs to China. In a letter to Bush signed by Visclosky and 61 other members of Congress, Visclosky called on the President to protect the American steel industry by implementing a fair-trading policy, known as Section 421, which would limit the amount of steel allowed to be imported from China. Visclosky’s call to action came after the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) determination that surging imports from China were causing significant disruption to the American circular welded non-alloy (standard) pipe industry. “The steel industry is the backbone of Northwest Indiana’s economy,” said Visclosky, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “Instead of allowing our steel jobs to be outsourced to China, we must stand up and fight for fair-trading policies that keep the American steel industry strong, and the American steel worker employed.” In 2004, imports of standard pipe from China surged by over 2,600 percent; from 10,000 tons in 2002 to 270,000 tons in 2004. These same imports are on track to exceed 380,000 tons in 2005. Under Section 421 relief, which Visclosky is urging the President to approve, China would be limited to import only 90,000 tons of standard pipe per year. In the letter to Bush, Visclosky and the other members of Congress pointed to the real-life impact this illegally dumped Chinese steel has on the American economy. “As a result of these surging imports, production and shipments are down by more than 25 percent; 20 percent of the workforce has been laid off; and, from 2002 to 2004, Chinese market share increased from 0.4 percent to just over 10 percent. Additionally, plants in Portland, Oregon and Bossier City, Louisiana have been shuttered and plant closings are imminent in Arizona, Arkansas, California, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee without immediate relief under Section 421.” Visclosky is quick to point out that these surging imports are threatening the domestic industry, including Allied Tube and Conduit in Harvey, Illinois, which employs hundreds of people from Northwest Indiana. Visclosky says enacting Section 421 is not only a critical element to protect the American steel industry, it is common sense. Section 421 “augments the antidumping and countervailing duty laws by providing domestic producers with a way to respond to absolute or relative increases of imports over periods of time that result in market disruption,” wrote Visclosky in the letter. “This unique trade remedy mechanism was included by Congress in the U.S. – China Relations Act of 2000 precisely to respond to cases such as this one.”
11.18.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that $6.5 million has been secured for the economic development projects of the Gary/Chicago Airport and the South Shore Rail Line, as well as a comprehensive bus study for Lake County. According to Visclosky, who last week announced a $20 million authorization for the Marquette Plan, the continued federal support for major economic development initiatives in Northwest Indiana is a key to long-term job creation and building a new economy throughout the region. “In order to create new economic opportunity to the region, we must invest the initiatives that will attract jobs to the region,” said Visclosky. “An expanded Gary/Chicago airport, a vibrant lakeshore, and a comprehensive transportation system that includes rail and bus are all part of the economic picture for Northwest Indiana.” Under the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act of 2006, the Gary/Chicago Airport will receive $1 million for its expansion project, which requires the relocation of the EJ&E rail line. Currently, the railway is located approximately 200 feet from Runway 12, but after the relocation is completed, the railroad will be located 1,000 feet away from the runway, in compliance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards. The relocation will enable the airport to regain the mandated safety area, and will allow the full potential of the existing airport infrastructure to be realized, along with future expansion possibilities. To date, the Gary/Chicago Airport has received $18.2 million in federal support. Paul Karas, Director of the Gary/Chicago Airport, said both the airport and the region will benefit from these funds. “This is great news. Additional funding will not only maintain but increase the momentum of the airport expansion program that has already begun, and thanks to the efforts of the congressional delegation, the Gary Chicago will continue to be a key component of economic development for the region. Also included in the legislation is $5 million for South Shore Commuter Rail Capital Investment Plan. This funding will allow the rail line, which operates more than 12,800 trains and carries more than 3.5 million passengers throughout the Chicago metropolitan area, to continue to be an economic engine for the region. To date, the South Shore Rail Line has received $29.5 million in federal funding. John Parsons, spokesman for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) said the funds will help NICTD achieve its long-term plans for the South Shore. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky and the Senators, this funding will allow NICTD to continue to move forward on our expansion plans and make progress on the centralized traffic control and power distribution projects on the existing rail line.” Additionally, Visclosky has secured $500,000 for a comprehensive bus system study in Lake and Porter County. Currently, there are many separate bus services being offered by different municipalities that include scheduled and on-demand systems. These funds will be used to identify a coordinated bus system that will provide the most effective service throughout the region. Visclosky pointed out that the progress on each of these regional initiatives is a sign of the potential that lays ahead for the region. “From my perspective, there are many reasons to be optimistic about the future of Northwest Indiana. We have made progress on a core group of economic initiatives. We have support for these projects at the federal level, and we have an established Regional Development Authority (RDA) to fund these major economic development projects. To me, this is a sign that we need to keep working so we truly can build a new economy in Northwest Indiana.”Additional Projects: In addition to the airport, rail and bus funding, Congressman Visclosky also secured $3.75 million for infrastructure, safety and economic development projects in Northwest Indiana as part of this appropriations legislation. Cedar Lake will receive $500,000 for downtown streetscape improvements, including curbs, lamps, benches, sidewalks and streetlights. Gary will receive $250,000 for continued renovation and remodeling of the Glen Theater into a performing arts center. The Lake County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) will receive $3 million as part of the bill. This funding will help combat drug and gang-related crime throughout Lake County.
11.10.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Indiana Water Institute at Purdue Calumet will receive $500,000 as part of the Energy and Water Appropriations Act that passed the House yesterday. The funds will be used to help advance the mission of the institute, which is to conduct research, offer educational programs in water resources, and assist the private sector in economic development opportunities for water quality, efficiency and security. To date, Visclosky has secured a total of $1 million for the institute. “The Indiana Water Institute will have a positive impact on the quality of life in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. “This project is another tool for Purdue Calumet to display its top-tier applied research capabilities, and it will take advantage of our position on Lake Michigan to create economic opportunities for the region.” “The Water Institute’s location in Northwest Indiana is strategic because Great Lakes water is our region’s most important natural resource,” said Purdue Calumet Chancellor Howard Cohen. “Purdue Calumet is always looking for opportunities to integrate faculty expertise in applied research, hands-on educational opportunities for our students, and areas of contribution to economic development in the region. The Water Institute meets all three criteria.” The Indiana Water Institute is a partnership between the industries of academics and research, as well as private industry and economic development agencies. The institute will focus research on many aspects of water resource management, such as water quality and the interrelationships of biological and chemical agents, mathematical modeling and water flow sensing, and the environmental and economic impact of human activities in the region. Purdue Calumet has already developed private partnerships with BP and Argonne National Laboratory, and will also collaborate with the Purdue Technology Center on intellectual properties developed at the institute. State Representative Earl Harris, who had the vision for the Water Institute, says it can be a long-term positive force in the region. “The Institute can prepare Northwest Indiana to be a worldwide leader as it relates to water and quality of life issues. We can be the people who change the way things happen and change how developments take place. With the Water Institute, Northwest Indiana has the opportunity to be out front in a cutting-edge research industry.”
11.09.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that law enforcement agencies and community safety programs in Northwest Indiana will receive $800,000 to provide technology upgrades and programming activities throughout the region. In addition to these local programs, Visclosky’s nation-wide Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program will receive $30 million to assist law enforcement agencies throughout the country. The $30 million for bullet proof vests is the most dedicated to the program since its inception in 1998. Visclosky secured the funding for these programs as part of the 2006 Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations Act which is set to pass today. “Northwest Indiana is the next economic engine for the state, and in order to make this happen, we need to ensure our communities are safe, and that our law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to do their jobs,” said Visclosky. In the legislation, Visclosky secured funding for three police departments in Northwest Indiana. The East Chicago Police Department will receive $300,000 to upgrade its Mobile Data Computer System, which consists of 70 vehicles. The federal support for this project will help offset the expense of upgrading the fleet. “Having the proper technology is key when it comes to having effective law enforcement programs in place,” said Visclosky. “Our police departments need modern communication tools to keep Northwest Indiana safe.” The Hammond Police Department will also receive $200,000 to upgrade its communications equipment, including portable radios, mobile radios and dispatch consoles. The Gary Police Department will receive $200,000 to enhance their capacity to fight drug-related crime and its associated violence. Specifically, the funds will be used to expand and upgrade their gunfire detection system and WIFI Video Surveillance Pod System. To date, the Gary Police Department has received $1.4 million for this program. “Each year, police departments are forced to stretch our budgets to accommodate not just the maintenance of our existing equipment, but also the acquisition of new tools,” said Garnett Watson, Chief of Police for the Gary Police Department. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky’s work at the federal level, local law enforcement will be better equipped to serve the community, and there will be less of a burden on local taxpayers.” Also included in the legislation is $100,000 to continue the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” Program for another year. This program, which is based in Gary and is part of the Department of Justice’s Juvenile Justice Program, provides programming activities for youth between the ages of 13-18 years old. Edgewater Systems has been providing the program at Edison Middle School in Gary since October 2000. The goal of the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” program, which has received $300,000 since 2004, is to provide a positive, structured environment in which the participants work to improve academic achievement, social skills and emotional maturity. Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program Receives $30 Million Authorization Also included in this appropriations bill is $30 million for the Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program, which Congressman Visclosky authored in 1997. The program works with local law enforcement agencies throughout the country to provide funding for the purchase of bulletproof vests. The purpose of the program is to save the lives of law enforcement officers engaged in local crime-fighting activities. $30 million is the highest amount of funding that the program has received since its inception. “The Bulletproof Vest Program provides assistance to the brave men and women who protect our neighborhoods,” said Visclosky. “The continued funding of this program will make it easier for local law enforcement agencies to purchase bulletproof vests.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program is administered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), and partner governments must show their own commitment to improving the safety of their law enforcement officers by providing at least 50 percent of the cost of each vest purchased under the program. Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vest Program was signed into law on June 16, 1998 and has been reauthorized through fiscal year 2007. Since the program began, law enforcement agencies in Northwest Indiana have received funding to help purchase 2,380 vests.
11.08.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive $24.275 million for flood control, infrastructure and environmental projects under the Energy and Water Appropriations Act that is set to pass both houses of Congress and signed into law by the President. According to Visclosky, the projects, which will be directed at flood control projects, environmental clean-up efforts and investment in local infrastructure, are all part of improving the quality of life in Northwest Indiana. They also are in addition to the $20 million authorization for Marquette Plan projects to invest in Lake Michigan’s shoreline that Visclosky secured in the same legislation. “In order to keep our existing jobs, and attract new opportunities in Northwest Indiana, we must invest in our local environment and infrastructure,” said Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. “These projects are part of building a new economy in Northwest Indiana.” $14.7 Million for Flood Control In the legislation, Visclosky secured a total of $14.7 million for flood control projects in Northwest Indiana. $6.5 million will go toward the Little Calumet River Flood Control project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect citizens and businesses in Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. To date, Visclosky has secured $105.2 million for this project. In addition, Visclosky secured $8.2 million for the Cady Marsh Ditch project, which provides a necessary marsh-land offset for the Little Calumet Flood Control Project. This funding amount is $4.2 million higher than the originally budgeted $4 million as passed by the House in May of this year. During the conference negotiations, Visclosky was able to secure the additional funding because it would push the project to near completion. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will not only protect citizens and property for years to come, but will also preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. “The recent hurricanes that have ravaged the Gulf Coast prove that we must do everything possible to protect the individuals and businesses from potential damage,” said Visclosky. “These funds are crucial to a comprehensive flood-prevention system in Northwest Indiana." Environmental Projects Visclosky also secured funding for several environmental projects in Northwest Indiana. A healthy local environment is key component of economic development for the region,” said Visclosky. “By investing in our natural resources, we are investing in the future of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky, who has championed investing in Lake Michigan’s shoreline through the Marquette Plan. The Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project will receive $275,000 to fund operations. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted by harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and reverse its effects to protect the beaches for future generations. Visclosky also secured $300,000 to continue the environmental restoration at Wolf Lake. These funds will assist with the reconstruction of wetlands and aquatic habitats. The eroded shoreline has been a detriment to many species, and the continuation of this project is of prime environmental concern. To date, Visclosky has secured a total of $4 million to assist with Wolf Lake restoration. In Whiting, Visclosky secured $100,000 for the Whiting Shoreline Protection project. This project will determine the best way to protect the Whiting shore from storm damage and reverse existing damage to the area. Visclosky was also able to secure $300,000 for an ecosystem restoration project for Cedar Lake. The goal of the project is to deepen the lake and restore its natural ecosystem, which for decades has been affected by natural pollution. Several infrastructure projects throughout Northwest Indiana will also receive funding. The Indiana Harbor in East Chicago will receive $8 million for a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF), $300,000 for operation, maintenance and dredging, and $300,000 for dredging along the Indiana Harbor and Grand Calumet River. Visclosky also secured $800,000 for operation, maintenance and dredging at the International Port of Indiana in Porter County.
11.07.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Marquette Plan, his strategy to reinvest in Lake Michigan’s shoreline, will receive a $20 million federal funding authorization for projects that will stimulate economic activity and improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana. According to Visclosky, this federal support will give the Marquette Plan a head start for the design, construction and completion of specific projects along the lakeshore. “The pieces are in place to successfully invest in Lake Michigan’s shoreline,” said Visclosky. “We have the support of all five lakefront mayors. We have significant financial support at the federal level, and we have the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA), which is a permanent local funding source that was created specifically to match federal investment in lakeshore and other economic development projects. The fact that we have identified funding sources for the Marquette Plan means that we’ll be able to hit the ground running when it comes to initiating work on specific projects.” John Clark, Chairman of the RDA, sees the funding authorization as an opportunity to help the newly formed authority with planning specific projects. “The Regional Development Authority was created to leverage federal funding for quality of life projects like Congressman Visclosky’s Marquette Plan, and this announcement shows the momentum for economic development in Northwest Indiana,” said John Clark, the Chairman of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA). “As the RDA proceeds in planning our next steps, we look forward to leveraging additional federal funds the Congressman obtains for needed infrastructure projects in Northwest Indiana.” Portage Mayor Doug Olson, who is one of the five mayors to commit to the Marquette Plan, and has plans to enhance the city’s shoreline to stimulate activity, sees Visclosky’s funding announcement as a sign of the positive impact Lake Michigan can have on Northwest Indiana’s quality of life. “Whenever a city wants to undertake a new project, the first question that is asked is, ‘How will the project be funded?’ With Congressman Visclosky’s securing support for the Marquette Plan at the federal level, and a local funding source already in place through the RDA, local governments in Northwest Indiana know we have support when it comes to investing in our lakeshore.” The $20 million authorization for Marquette Plan projects is part of the Energy & Water Appropriations Act of 2006. Under the legislation, funding for the Marquette Plan would be cost shared with 65% coming from the federal government, and 35% coming from a non-federal funding source such as the RDA. “Our location on Lake Michigan will be more valuable tomorrow than it is today. In order to take full advantage of the economic opportunities and quality of life issues available to Northwest Indiana, we must invest in the lakeshore,” said Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the House Energy & Water Appropriations Subcommittee. About the Marquette Plan Developed by Visclosky, and agreed to by the mayors of East Chicago, Gary, Hammond, Portage and Whiting, the Marquette Plan has three guiding principles. First, 75 percent of the lakeshore, from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of Portage, should be open for free public use. Second, in order to offer the highest-quality access to Lake Michigan, there should be a minimum setback of at least 200 feet for projects directly on the lakefront. Third, there should be a continuous biking and walking trail for all Northwest Indiana residents to enjoy. The Marquette Plan calls for developing public-private agreements to invest in lakefront projects, with the federal government providing matching funding whenever possible. With the establishment of the Regional Development Authority in May, Northwest Indiana now has a permanent, non-federal funding source to leverage federal commitment for economic development projects throughout Northwest Indiana, such as the Marquette Plan, the Gary/Chicago Airport and the South Shore Rail Line.
10.07.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today said that instead of working to reduce high gas prices and increase our nation’s refining capacity, the Republican leaders in Congress have the wrong priorities for the country. Visclosky’s concern for lack of progress on relieving gas prices comes after the Congress rejected a plan supported by Visclosky that would impose strict penalties on oil companies that engage in predatory price-gouging activities. Instead, the Republican leaders pushed through legislation that weakens the penalties for price-gouging, which narrowly passed 212-210 after holding the five minute vote open for an unprecedented 45 minutes. “People in Northwest Indiana are paying too much for gas, and the people who control Congress are not doing anything to solve the problem,” said Visclosky. “The first thing we need to do is expand our ability to crack down on price-gouging wherever it occurs, and I am extremely disappointed that the majority of members in Congress did not have the courage to pass this common-sense legislation.” What’s more, the legislation that passed the house today weakens the penalties that can be imposed on price-gougers by placing an $11,000 cap on price gouging per day. In addition, the legislation that passed applies only in areas that have been affected by natural disasters, and applies mainly to retail outlets. While consumers are paying higher prices, oil companies are reaping record profits. ExxonMobil, for instance, reported skyrocketing earnings in the second quarter of 2005, up 32 percent to $7.62 billion. “At a time of record gas prices and record profits for oil companies, I cannot understand why the majority in Congress choose to limit our ability to go after oil companies who participate in price-gouging,” said Visclosky. “The people of Northwest Indiana deserve better than a federal government that bends over backwards to help subsidize the profits of oil companies.” By comparison, the legislation supported by Visclosky would have strengthened penalties for price gougers by allowing both states and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) the authority to enforce anti-price gouging measures. It would have also applied to any company engaging in price gouging throughout the distribution channel, and would include not just to gasoline and diesel fuel, but also crude oil, natural gas and all petroleum distillates. Visclosky Fights to End Price Gouging In addition to supporting the plan today that would increase the government’s ability to crack down on price gouging, Visclosky has also co-sponsored legislation that deter price-gouging activities by placing a windfall profits tax on oil companies that charge consumers excessive prices based on historical profits. This legislation, known as the Gas Price Spike Act of 2005, was offered to be included in today’s energy legislation, but was rejected in committee. Visclosky also joined with 95 other members of Congress, requesting that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and FTC Chairwoman Deborah Majoras begin an immediate investigation into possible wrong-doing by industries that are making record profits while gas prices are at an all time high. “It is time for the U.S. Congress to get its priorities straight, and address the energy crisis that is affects the pocketbook of everyone in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “The first step is to send a message to oil companies that are raking in record profits right now that we will not tolerate price-gouging.”
09.30.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky, along with Governor Daniels and Senators Lugar and Bayh, today urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to approve the Gary Chicago Airport’s Letter of Intent (LOI), which would make way for millions of dollars in federal investment for an important economic engine in Northwest Indiana. The decision from the FAA is expected sometime in October. “The Gary/Chicago Airport is a key piece to building a new economy in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “By investing in the third airport for the Chicago metropolitan airport, we are investing in the jobs of the future and an improved quality of life for everyone throughout the region.” The four elected officials made their case in a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Norman Mineta, citing the airport’s ability to alleviate congestion and capacity issues. “As the elected officials representing Northwest Indiana, we are writing to express our strong support for the Gary/Chicago International Airport’s (GYY) Letter of Intent application for funding,” said the officials’ letter to Mineta. “We believe a significant investment by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration to GYY will help address the congestion and capacity crisis currently plaguing the Chicago metropolitan region.” Recent Successes In the letter, Visclosky and the other elected officials also pointed out the recent successes of both the airport and the region. In 2004, the Gary/Chicago Airport was one of only two airports in the entire country to receive priority consideration for funding its LOI application, and the approval is the next step. “This funding is essential to the Airport’s ability to implement its 20-year Master Plan, which includes the relocation of a moderately used freight line and the extension of the main runway,” said the delegation’s letter. Additionally, the recent creation of the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority provides state and local support for the long-term vision of the airport. According to Visclosky and the other signers of the letter to the FAA, the Regional Development Authority “will ensure the Airport has a constant and guaranteed stream of revenue for the foreseeable future,” making local funding matches for federal projects more available. The Time is Right Visclosky says these recent successes at the federal, state and local levels show the potential of the airport and its impact on the local economy. “We believe LOI assistance, along with financial support from the state, will help ensure GYY is a part of the long-term solution needed to address the region’s vast needs. As O’Hare and Midway Airports continue to experience congestion and capacity shortages, GYY will play an increasingly valuable role in delivering commercial passenger and cargo service to the region.”
09.27.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), making his case for the body to maintain its fair-trade policies on steel that is made at Mittal Steel’s Burns Harbor Plant. Visclosky said the decision put forth by the ITC could directly affect 600 workers at the plant. “In order to keep good-paying steel jobs in Northwest Indiana, the ITC must keep its fair-trade policies in place,” said Visclosky. “If the ITC reverses its policy, it will be asking our local steelworkers to compete against countries that illegally dump steel into our market, which is ridiculous, unacceptable and unfair.” The ITC hearing today was a sunset review of anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on Cut-To-Length Plate from France, Italy, Japan, Korea, India, and Indonesia. Of the more than 3,700 people that are employed at Mittal Steel’s Burns Harbor plant, 600 work directly on producing plate. The decision by the ITC, which is expected to come in November, could affect local workers by putting the American steel industry at a disadvantage to countries that engage in steel dumping and other unfair trading practices. In his testimony, Congressman Visclosky also spoke on the impact the plate industry has on our nation’s economy and national security. “I believe that steel is the backbone to our nation’s manufacturing sector. When our steel industry is struggling, it puts the entire manufacturing economy at risk,” said Visclosky in his testimony. “The vitality of the steel industry – and the plate industry in particular – also has profound implication for national security. The plants that make Cut-To-Length Plate make a variety of plate products that are vital to our national defense.”
09.22.2005	Washington, D.C. – Citing the growing financial burden imposed on the people of Northwest Indiana, Congressman Pete Visclosky has called for an end to price gouging and oil profiteering. Visclosky’s push for reasonable energy prices come at a time when consumers are paying record prices for energy, the country is still suffering from the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina, yet profits by international oil companies are at record levels. “The people of Northwest Indiana deserve to know why oil companies are driving up the cost of gasoline through speculation and engaging in price gouging, while at the same time these companies are reaping record profits,” said Visclosky. “Looking at the unreasonable actions contributing to the cost of a gallon of gasoline, I want answers, accountability, and lower energy prices.” “It’s not uncommon for a person to live in Valparaiso, and commute to work in Hammond, or for someone who lives in Lowell to drive to Chicago everyday,” continued Visclosky. “When oil companies profiteer, speculate and play games with energy prices, working families in Northwest Indiana suffer.” While consumers are paying higher prices, Visclosky points to the fact that oil companies are enjoying record profits. ExxonMobil, for example, reported skyrocketing earnings in the second quarter of 2005, up 32 percent to $7.62 billion. As further proof that speculation drives up the price of oil, Visclosky pointed out that oil futures recently experienced the biggest one-day price increase ever – surging more than four dollars a barrel just three days ago. “Every time someone in the Middle East coughs, or news of a storm appears, energy prices skyrocket immediately, but it takes forever to come back down to reasonable levels,” said Visclosky. “This price-gouging takes money out of the pocket of working families in Northwest Indiana, who need affordable fuel to get to work in the morning and heat their homes in the winter.” Visclosky Calls for Investigation into Price Gouging To put an end to unnecessary price surges, Congressman Visclosky joined with 95 other members of Congress, requesting that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Deborah Majoras begin an immediate investigation into possible wrong-doing by industries that are making record profits at the expense of average American families. “We are extremely concerned about gasoline price spikes around the country, and have been for quite some time prior to the devastating hurricane in the Gulf Coast, wrote Visclosky and the other Members of Congress. “While many of us have been calling for investigations prior to this natural disaster, Hurricane Katrina has given new urgency to our concerns about price gouging and price fixing by the oil industry.” Visclosky Co-sponsors Legislation to End Price Gouging In order to address companies that choose excessive profits over responsible behavior, Visclosky co-sponsored legislation in the House of Representatives that would eliminate price gouging by placing a windfall profits tax on oil companies that charge consumers excessive prices based on historical profits. This legislation, known as the Gas Price Spike Act of 2005 (H.R. 2070) has been referred to the House Committees on Ways and Means and Transportation. Energy Prices Hurting Consumers and the Economy Increased energy prices are forcing consumers to spend more of their income for basic necessities. The average price of gas throughout the country is up 18 cents since Hurricane Katrina, to $2.79 a gallon, and has increased by an average of 74 cents a gallon in the last year alone. According to the National Energy Directors’ Association, American families could be paying an additional $1,000 for basic transportation costs this year – money that could be used for other needs. Additionally, the Energy Information Administration estimates that consumers may see their natural gas fuel costs increase as much as 71% this winter, while heating oil, coal and electricity could increase by 34%, 16% and 11% respectively.
07.29.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has announced that the Gary/Chicago Airport will receive $7 million to enhance service capabilities and improve safety conditions at its facility. The funding, which is included in the Conference Report of the Transportation Equity Act (TEA), will be a key component to economic development throughout Northwest Indiana. “This is another step in the right direction for economic development in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “With the creation of the Regional Development Authority, it is vital to keep key projects, like the Gary/Chicago Airport, the South Shore rail line and the Marquette Plan moving at a federal level as well, which is exactly what this project will do.” Specifically, the $7 million project will be used to embark on a major railroad relocation project. The EJ&E rail line is currently located approximately 200 feet from Runway 12, and after the relocation is completed, the railroad will be located 1,000 feet away from the runway, in compliance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards. The relocation will enable the airport to regain the mandated safety area, and will allow the full potential of the existing airport infrastructure to be realized, along with future expansion possibilities. The airport project is the latest win for economic development in Northwest Indiana. In May of this year, Governor Daniels signed the Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA) into law, creating a permanent economic development funding mechanism to leverage federal dollars and invest in major projects like the Gary/Chicago Airport, the South Shore rail line and Lakeshore development throughout Northwest Indiana. One of the key reasons the RDA was created during the last state legislative session in Indianapolis was to leverage federal funding available for regional economic development projects. The $7 million Gary/Chicago Airport project is the latest example of the federal commitment to the region, which falls squarely in line with the goals of the RDA. Also at the federal level, Visclosky has recently secured federal commitment to fund a key Lakeshore improvement plan, as well as approval to request unlimited federal funding for the South Shore Rail Line. According to Visclosky, the necessary pieces vital to a prosperous future are falling into place. “In order for Northwest Indiana to attract the jobs of the future, we must invest in our resources now,” said Visclosky. “In the past year, Northwest Indiana has had a series of positive developments which will benefit the entire region for years to come, and I fully expect these successes will only continue.”
07.28.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced a $1.5 million grant has been awarded to the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) to conduct a major investment study for the West Lake Corridor to examine extending the southern end of the South Shore Line commuter rail service. “This funding is a crucial step in extending the South Shore Line,” said Visclosky. “An enhanced commuter rail service creates new economic development, and people throughout Northwest Indiana will have more job opportunities.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation under its Fiscal Year 2005 New Starts Allocation.
07.28.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that Northwest Indiana will receive $34.6 million in transportation projects, including a new $10 million expansion project for Interstate I-80 in Hammond. These projects are in the Conference Report of the Transportation Equity Act, which will pass late this evening. “A comprehensive transportation system will lead to economic development and more jobs in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “These projects will create jobs, reduce congestion, and lay the foundation for a prosperous future.” For the Interstate-80 project, just east of the Illinois State line in Hammond, $10 million will go toward the expansion of travel lanes in each direction. This is the remaining phase of a four phase project to add travel lanes, reduce congestion, and make interchange modifications from the Illinois State line to the I-80/I-65 interchange. Visclosky, Lugar Work to Boost Local Transportation Needs Congressman Visclosky and Senator Dick Lugar joined forces to keep Northwest Indiana’s transportation projects from being cut in the Conference Report. Visclosky praised Lugar for his commitment to Northwest Indiana. “Without Senator Lugar, 109th Avenue alone could have lost hundreds of thousands of dollars,” said Visclosky. “Senator Lugar fought for Northwest Indiana, and was instrumental in making sure our transportation needs were met.” $34.6 Million for NWI Transportation Projects Including the $10 million for Interstate-80 project, Northwest Indiana will receive $34.6 million in transportation projects: $10 million for the construction of an interchange at 109th Avenue and Interstate 65 in Crown Point. This interchange will better manage increased traffic-flow and encourage additional economic development. $1 million to improve S.R. 100 South in Porter County. These improvements will address current traffic and the additional traffic expected from the new interchange at 109th Avenue and Interstate 65. $1.3 million for reconstruction of Standard Avenue in Whiting. When completed, this project, which is a partnership between BP Amoco and the City of Whiting, will meet Homeland Security guidelines for oil refinery access. $2.7 million for improvements to 45th Avenue between Gary and Munster. This project will provide another east/west traffic corridor and increase traffic flow by creating a continuous turn lane on 45th Avenue. $4.2 million for the design and construction of two bridges on State Road 312 in Hammond. This project will provide increased safety by separating automobile and train traffic. $3.2 million to expand the Samuelson Road underpass in Portage. When completed, Samuelson Road will go from one lane to two lanes, and provide increased clearance for emergency vehicles. $1.2 million to improve Calumet Avenue in Valparaiso between Vale Park Road and Bullseye Lake Road. This project will reduce congestion, improve safety and stimulate economic activity. $500,000 to reduce congestion from the Southwood intersection to Calumet Avenue and the West 45th Street intersection in Munster. This project will provide better access to the south end of Munster, Dyer and Schererville. $320,000 to connect Bailie Street to U.S. 41 at Ross Industrial Park in Kentland. The improvements will increase access and economic opportunity. $200,000 to increase safety by upgrading the rail crossing at 93rd Avenue in St. John. In addition to these transportation projects, federal approval for the South Shore West Lake Commuter Rail extension was included in the legislation. The authorization is open-ended and does not limit the amount of money Congressman Visclosky can pursue in federal appropriations bills. “Northwest Indiana has secured a hard-won victory today,” said Visclosky. “The passage of the transportation bill provides the necessary infrastructure that will create jobs, ease congestion and improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana.”
07.27.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has announced he will vote against the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) today, calling the legislation “a fast-track to increased outsourcing of American jobs, unfair competition, and a major blow to the manufacturing industry.” Visclosky, who has pushed for strong and fair trade laws, says trade can and should be an engine for growth and prosperity, but CAFTA provides a platform for more outsourcing and unfair trade without setting the ground-rules necessary to benefit the American worker. In the end, Visclosky says CAFTA will hurt the American economy in the same way the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has: Since its inception, NAFTA has created incentives for manufacturers to ship jobs abroad, eliminating at least 879,000 American jobs. Since 1993, the U.S. deficit with NAFTA countries has skyrocketed from $16.6 billion to $104 billion in 2004. As a result, NAFTA has led to job losses and the reduction of manufacturing capacity in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. “CAFTA follows NAFTA as the next step in the race toward the bottom by making American products compete unfairly with exploited foreign labor,” said Visclosky. “Under CAFTA, more high quality jobs will be sent overseas and our trade deficit will continue to skyrocket, weakening the financial security of Northwest Indiana and the country as a whole.”
07.27.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has secured $1,728,000 for lakeshore and economic development projects throughout Northwest Indiana, as part of the House Interior-EPA Appropriations bill. The projects range from the construction of new facilities at the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, to upgrading Valparaiso’s sewer infrastructure, to the historic restoration of an East Chicago Library into a performing and visual arts center. “These projects are investments in Northwest Indiana’s greatest resources,” said Visclosky. “By improving our lakeshore, upgrading sewer infrastructure and restoring a historic landmark to create a performing and visual arts center, we are making a commitment to the future and improving the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana.” Lakeshore Projects Specifically, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore has received funding for two projects to construct and enhance their facilities. $497,000 has been dedicated to repair and replace the boardwalk portion of the West Beach Succession Trail. These funds will also repair and replace sections of the Marquette Trail and the Douglas Environmental Education Center Boardwalk. The second project is for the Dunbar Beach Visitor Facility. $206,000 will go toward the construction of a permanent restroom facility, including solar lighting and wastewater management. Valparaiso Sewer Infrastructure The City of Valparaiso will receive a State Tribal Assistance Grant for $825,000 to go toward protecting and upgrading their sewer infrastructure. The funds will be used to replace an existing lift station, as well as to construct, extend and improve water mains and combined sewer overflows. “Thanks to Congressman Visclosky, Valparaiso will have the resources necessary to invest in our infrastructure, save local tax dollars, and continue our strategic plan,” said Valparaiso Mayor Jon Costas. “These improvements are vital for Valparaiso to continue to successfully plan for growth and increased usage of our sewage infrastructure, as well as address overflow issues.” East Chicago Performing and Visual Arts Center Also included in the Interior Appropriations Bill is $200,000 to assist the City of East Chicago to restore the Indiana Harbor Branch of the East Chicago Library, which is a historically designated landmark, into a performing and visual arts center to be used by the community. East Chicago has already partnered with the Carnegie Performing Arts Association of East Chicago to begin the historic restoration of the facility, which will offer a constructive landscape and bring new life to the facility. “The renovation of the Indiana Harbor Branch of the East Chicago Public Library is key to revitalizing and engaging our community in positive activities,” said East Chicago Mayor George Pabey. “By securing funding for the project, Congressman Visclosky has provided a major boost to the project at no additional local cost.” The Interior Appropriations Bill, which includes funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Park Service, is expected to pass the House by the end of this week.
07.14.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that the Marquette Plan, a strategy to reinvest in Lake Michigan’s shoreline, has received the commitment of the federal government to participate in the funding of the project. “The Marquette Plan will improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana, and securing federal commitment to the project is vital to its success,” said Visclosky. “By keeping the Marquette Plan moving at the federal level, local costs will also be reduced.” The federal commitment to the Marquette Plan is part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2005 passed by the House today. The legislation authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers to identify specific environmental and recreational projects, under the Marquette Plan, which they can develop and complete. Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the Energy & Water Appropriations Sub-Committee, said that a federal commitment is another success for the Marquette Plan, which recently received a local boost from the creation of the Regional Development Authority (RDA). “The Marquette Plan is receiving wide-spread local, state and federal support because of the long-term benefits it will bring to Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “It is in the interest of all parties involved to invest in our lakeshore, as it is key to improving recreational opportunities, enhancing the local environment and attracting economic development to the region.” About the Marquette Plan Developed by Visclosky, and agreed to by the mayors of East Chicago, Gary, Hammond, Portage and Whiting, the Marquette Plan has three guiding principles. First, 75 percent of the lakeshore, from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of Portage, should be open for free public use. Second, in order to offer the highest-quality access to Lake Michigan, there should be a minimum setback of at least 200 feet for projects directly on the lakefront. Third, there should be a continuous biking and walking trail for all Northwest Indiana residents to enjoy. The Marquette Plan calls for developing public-private agreements to invest in lakefront projects, with the federal government providing matching funding whenever possible. With the establishment of the Regional Development Authority in May, Northwest Indiana now has a permanent, non-federal funding source to leverage federal commitment for economic development projects throughout Northwest Indiana, such as the Marquette Plan, the Gary/Chicago Airport and the South Shore Rail Line.
07.11.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced the City of Gary has received a $32,987 grant for its Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T) program from the Department of Justice. “I am pleased to announce that the City of Gary will receive gang-prevention funds,” said Visclosky. “By providing students with life-skills, education and training, the G.R.E.A.T. program is laying the foundation for a safe and successful future.” The G.R.E.A.T. program is a life-skills competency program designed to provide students with the skills they need to avoid gang pressure and youth violence. G.R.E.A.T.’s violence prevention curriculum helps students develop values, and practice behaviors that will assist them to avoid destructive activities. The G.R.E.A.T. program coordinates with federal, regional, state and local agencies, as well as individuals from community and civic groups. The goal of the G.R.E.A.T. program is to train law enforcement officers in a school-based curriculum in which the officers provide instruction to school-aged children in life skill competencies, gang awareness, and anti-violence techniques. Training in the core G.R.E.A.T. program is provided to officers from any sate or local law enforcement agency.
07.06.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he is sponsoring legislation that would give active-duty military personnel a second chance to participate in the educational benefits under the Montgomery G.I. Bill. The legislation, called “The Montgomery GI Bill Second Chance Act,” would fix an unfair provision that only provides one opportunity for military personnel to receive the educational benefits. “With hundreds of thousands of active-duty military personnel around the world making sacrifices for our country, we need benefits that offer long-term opportunities for those in uniform,” said Visclosky. “The Montgomery GI Bill Second Chance Act provides the flexibility our troops need when it comes to making decisions about their future, and it provides greater access to a more affordable college education.” The legislation, which Visclosky also introduced during the last session of Congress, will allow military personnel who initially opt out of the program to sign up during an ‘open season’ held every year in October. Military personnel who enroll through the Second Chance Act would pay the same $100 monthly fee for 12 months, without assessing any penalties, just as those who already take advantage of the program. The Montgomery GI Bill provides up to $28,800 towards continuing education for military veterans. Legislative Proposal Comes from Needs of Local Constituent Visclosky’s work to expand educational benefits came about after hearing from a local residents who could benefit from the legislation. Marine Gunnery Sgt. Barry Slegers, who served 12 years in active duty, did not participate in the Montgomery GI Bill program when he first enlisted. Later, when Slegers decided he wanted to go back to college after he completed his active duty, he was unable to enroll in the program and receive the benefits. Visclosky, discussing the bill today while receiving the Indiana VFW “Legislator of the Year Award, said the 45,000 members of the military, like Slegers, who opted out of the GI Bill will get a second chance to enroll in the program. “It is my hope that Congress and the President will act quickly to turn this bill into law, which would make educational benefits more readily accessible for the men and women serving in our armed forces,” said Visclosky.
06.08.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he will support legislation which would withdraw the U.S. from the World Trade Organization (WTO), citing the agreement’s unfair and harmful effects on the steel industry, and the country’s skyrocketing trade deficit. “Since its inception, the WTO has continually ruled against fair-trade for our country, costing the United States thousands of jobs,” said Visclosky. “The WTO struck down the steel safeguards that were put place after illegal steel dumping decimated the steel industry in the late 1990’s and early 2000’s. This type of prejudice against the United States is unacceptable, and it is time for our country to sever our involvement with the WTO.” Every five years, Congress evaluates the WTO agreement, and determines whether continued membership in the organization is in the best interest of the country. Visclosky, who originally supported the establishment of the WTO in 1995, supports withdrawing from the organization because none of its initial promises have been met, including lower tariffs, trade surpluses, as well as improved environmental and labor standards for the international community. In 1994, before the WTO came into existence, the United States had a trade deficit of just over $150 billion. Ten years later, the U.S. trade deficit hit an all-time high of $650 billion – an increase of 333%. Additionally, the U.S. trade deficit with China alone was $162 billion last year, a greater amount than what it was with the world prior to the creation of the WTO. The WTO has also continually showed a bias against the United States’ trade laws. The WTO has ruled against the U.S. in 42 out of 48 cases brought against the United States in which a WTO panel has made a ruling. The House of Representatives will consider the legislation Thursday, June 9, 2005.
05.31.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today called on the top-ranking trade and commerce officials to strengthen U.S. trade laws at the upcoming negotiations at the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Doha Development Agenda to be held later this year. Visclosky, along with 20 other members of Congress, sent a letter to Carlos Gutierrez, the Secretary of Commerce, and Rob Portman, the United States Trade Representative, urging these top officials to hold their ground at the upcoming negotiations. “Effective trade laws are key to a healthy steel industry in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “Secretary Gutierrez and Trade Representative Portman must not let our trade laws be weakened again. Instead, we need to strengthen our trade laws by stopping illegally traded imports from other countries.” In the letter, Visclosky pointed to the unfair trading practices that other countries continue to use, which adversely affects U.S. industry, including steel manufacturing in Northwest Indiana. Visclosky argues that the Administration should not allow our trade laws to be weakened at the upcoming negotiations, as countries like China continue to manipulate their currency, provide unfair subsidies to their exports and engage in illegal dumping activities. In the letter, Visclosky and the other Congressmen urged Gutierrez and Portman to push for stronger trade laws, writing, “In our view, it is imperative that U.S. negotiators put on the table equally strong proposals to strengthen existing rules – something that by and large has not been done to this point, even as talks are moving toward an advanced stage.”
05.24.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has secured $20.6 million for flood control, environmental and infrastructure projects vital to Northwest Indiana in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives today. Visclosky, who is the Ranking Member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said the projects will invest in infrastructure vital to improving the quality of life throughout Northwest Indiana. “In order for Northwest Indiana to attract new jobs, and create new opportunities for the people who live here, we must invest in our environment,” said Visclosky. “The funding for these projects provides a commitment to our most precious natural resources. Flood Control Visclosky secured $6.5 million for flood control on the Little Calumet River. Over the past 14 years, Visclosky has secured over $105.2 million for this vital project, which includes 22 miles of levees and flood walls to protect the citizens and businesses of Gary, Griffith, Hammond, Highland and Munster. Additionally, Visclosky secured $4 million for the Cady Marsh Ditch project, which directly impacts the Little Calumet Flood Control Project, as it provides the necessary marsh-land offset. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flooding on the Little Calumet River creates $11 million in damages annually. This project will help protect citizens and property for years to come, preserve 550 acres of wetlands, and create 17 miles of hiking trails. “People are stuck in the flood plain, and the Little Calumet Flood Control project must move ahead faster,” said Congressman Visclosky. “It is my hope that these funds will encourage all parties involved to redouble our efforts, and get this project completed as soon as possible." Investing in Our Environment Congressman Visclosky secured $500,000 to fund operations at the Indiana Shoreline Erosion Project. For many years, the natural movement of sand along the lakeshore has been interrupted by harbor structures, causing accelerated erosion of the beach and dunes. The continuation of this project is necessary to slow the erosion and reverse its effects to protect the beaches for future generations. Visclosky also secured $300,000 to continue the environmental restoration at Wolf Lake. These funds will assist with the reconstruction of wetlands and aquatic habitats. The eroded shoreline has been a detriment to many species, and the continuation of this project is of prime environmental concern. To date, Visclosky has secured a total of $4 million to assist with Wolf Lake restoration. In Whiting, Visclosky secured $100,000 for the Whiting Shoreline Protection project. This project will determine the best way to protect the Whiting shore from storm damage and reverse existing damage to the area. “By investing in our natural resources, we are investing in the future of Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky, who has championed investing in Lake Michigan’s shoreline through the Marquette Plan. Congressman Visclosky was also able to secure funding for a variety of infrastructure improvement programs throughout Northwest Indiana. For the Indiana Harbor in East Chicago, $7.6 million was secured for a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF), and $300,000 was obtained for operation, maintenance and dredging. Visclosky secured $800,000 for operation, maintenance and dredging at the International Port of Indiana in Porter County. In Newton County, Congressman Visclosky secured $200,000 to restore 1,500 acres of land that connects three of the most significant surviving prairie and savanna habitats in Indiana. The project is sponsored by the Nature Conservancy as part of a 7,200-acre restoration effort to connect over 10,000 additional acres of protected grasslands and prairies. This project is the only project of its kind east of the Mississippi River.
05.20.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky has secured $703,000 for infrastructure improvement projects for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore in the Interior Appropriations bill approved by the House of Representatives late last night. The projects, which will begin after the bill is signed into law, are part of Visclosky’s vision to invest in Northwest Indiana’s natural resources. “Lake Michigan is one of our greatest resources, and we must invest in it to create jobs and improve the quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana,” said Visclosky. “Once these funds become available, the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore will have the resources necessary to move quickly to enhance its facilities.” Specifically, Visclosky secured two projects for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore (IDNL), which is part of the National Park Service. One project dedicates $497,000 for the West Beach Trail Enhancement, which would allow IDNL to repair and replace the boardwalk portion of the West Beach Succession Trial. The other project dedicates $206,000 for the Dunbar Beach Visitor Facility. These funds will provide for the construction of a permanent restroom facility with water/wastewater capabilities, paved parking and solar lighting at IDNL’s Dunbar Beach parking area. The completion of this project will improve sanitary conditions for the 75,000 visitors who visit the site annually. IDNL Superintendent, Dale Engquist, said the funds are a welcome source of investment for the region. “Congressman Visclosky has delivered the resources for projects that are vital to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore,” said Engquist. “The end result will be more people enjoying Lake Michigan.” IDNL, authorized by Congress in 1966, is located approximately 50 miles southeast of the City of Chicago in the counties of Lake, Porter, and LaPorte in Northwest Indiana. The national lakeshore runs for nearly 25 miles along southern Lake Michigan, bordered by Michigan City, Indiana on the east, and Gary on the west. The park contains approximately 15,000 acres, 2,182 of which are located in Indiana Dunes State Park and managed by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Indiana Dunes is ranked 7th among national parks in native plant diversity. Research conducted over the last two decades has revealed 1,418 vascular plant species within park boundaries, of which over 90 are on the state of Indiana's threatened or endangered list.
05.19.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today introduced a resolution urging the President to continue the efforts of the United States to generate worldwide support for initiatives to develop an HIV vaccine. The resolution (H.Res. 286) is the companion legislation to U.S. Senator Dick Lugar’s efforts in the Senate. “HIV and AIDS require a global commitment to develop a vaccine,” said Congressman Visclosky. “By working together to achieve this noble goal, millions of people throughout the world will benefit.” The resolution would: Express the sense of the House that the President should seek to build on efforts to develop an HIV vaccine, mobilize necessary economic and scientific support, and urge members of other involved countries to garner support from their own communities for the development of an HIV vaccine. Call for countries involved in the development of a vaccine to take further measures to explore and implement these initiatives, leverage financial contributions from the international philanthropic community to provide funding, include the scientific and political leadership of the countries most affected by the pandemic of HIV and AIDS, and develop a plan for furthering such efforts prior to their June 2005 meeting. Urge the President to generate global support for the Global HIV Vaccine Enterprise by carrying out an initiative that partners with the private sector and other countries, encourages the global coordination of research and greater use of information-sharing networks and technologies, encourages the establishment of coordinated global HIV vaccine development centers, and increases cooperation and communication among regulatory agencies on issues related to AIDS and HIV. An estimated 40 million people in the world live with HIV or AIDS, and nearly 8,500 people die every day from AIDS. Recent projections by the World Health Organization and UNAIDS indicate that there will be 45 million new infections by 2010 and nearly 70 million deaths by 2020, if the pandemic spreads at the current rate. Scientifically, developing an HIV vaccine has been especially challenging because of the complicate and changing nature of the virus. An effective AIDS vaccine remains the world’s best chance to reverse this pandemic. “Our resolution seeks to highlight the urgent need to coordinate efforts to develop an HIV vaccine and that accomplishing this goal will require the efforts of many groups, includeing governments, scientists, researchers, the private sector, and individuals,” said Congressman Visclosky and Senator Lugar. Congressman Pete King (R-NY) cosponsored the resolution in the House of Representatives with Visclosky.
05.12.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky’s office will host an informational session for prospective U.S. military academy applicants on Thursday, May 19, 2005 at the NIPSCO Building, 801 East 86th Avenue, Merrillville, Indiana, in the cafeteria from 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM. High-school freshmen, sophomores and juniors from the First Congressional District interested in attending a military academy, as well as parents, relatives and educators, are welcome to attend the event. There, they will have the opportunity to learn about educational opportunities and application information at the following institutions: U.S. Military Academy at West Point U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London Members of the Congressman’s Academy Nomination Board, as well as local ROTC officers, will be on hand to meet prospective applicants. “This is a great opportunity for students to learn about the opportunities our military academies offer,” said Visclosky, “It is always an honor for me to nominate many of our future leaders to these great institutions.” For further information, please contact Visclosky’s district office at 219-795-1844.
04.14.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today applauded the decision of the International Trade Commission (ITC) to continue the anti-dumping and countervailing duties on unfairly traded steel imports from Brazil, Japan and Russia. The program was implemented after a flood of hot-rolled steel from these countries decimated the U.S. market in 1998. “The continuation of theses policies is good news for the U.S. steel industry, the local economy and our national security,” said Visclosky. “I applaud the International Trade Commission for making the right decision to protect the steel industry from unfair trading practices.” By continuing this trade relief, the Department of Commerce will continue to have a tool to monitor unfairly traded imports of hot-rolled steel from Brazil, Japan and Russia. Had the trade relief been terminated, the U.S. market could have been flooded with hot-rolled steel, as there would be no monitoring system in place. On March 2, 2005, Congressman Visclosky testified before the ITC in support of continuing these policies, which also have the support of the steel industry’s labor and management. In his testimony before the ITC, Congressman Visclosky made the case to protect the American steel market by continuing the trade policies that keep illegally dumped steel and steel manufactured with massive government subsidies from entering the United States. “As we are now presented with the question as to whether the import relief should be continued, the answer is an unequivocal yes,” said Visclosky in his testimony. “We must maintain fair conditions of trade as the continued survival of the industry is vital to our national security interests, to protection of the jobs that still remain, and to continued funding of trusts to provide retirees with some benefits to address their medical needs.”
04.11.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today joined forces with Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) in cosponsoring legislation that would provide economic stability to the U.S. manufacturing industry. Visclosky became a cosponsor of the Chinese Currency Act of 2005, which would give the Department of Commerce the ability to confront unfair currency manipulation as a subsidy, making Chinese goods subject to countervailing duties. The act would also be compliant with the World Trade Organization (WTO), ensuring the enforcement of international fair-trading practices. “Everyday China unfairly manipulates its currency, the U.S. Steel Industry faces a competitive disadvantage,” said Visclosky. “This act is a tool for the manufacturing industry to compete on a level playing field, and will provide greater economic stability to Northwest Indiana’s Steel Industry.” Congressman Visclosky has a history of working to put the U.S. manufacturing industry on a level playing field. Last year, Visclosky led the charge on a trade action filed against China by Members of Congress in an effort to confront China’s continued unfair manipulation of its currency. Additionally, Congressman Visclosky has backed legislation that would revoke China’s favored-nation trading status.
03.16.2005	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Steel Caucus today held a hearing for steel industry leaders to share their priorities and concerns as it relates to the steel industry and this current session of Congress. Congressman Pete Visclosky, who is vice-chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, and the United Steelworkers of America share the same priorities of continuing fair trade policies that strengthen the domestic steel industry, as well as securing employee pensions. “These hearings are vital in maintaining an open dialogue between the steel industry and the U.S. Congress,” said Visclosky. “My priority in Congress is to do whatever I can to keep our local steel industry strong, which translates into jobs in Northwest Indiana.” In his testimony submitted at today’s hearing, Visclosky voiced his support of the recent extension of the Steel Import Monitoring Program, and pledged to continue working for trading policies that keep steel jobs in Northwest Indiana. “As we move forward, it is important for this caucus to continue its efforts to ensure fair trade by pursuing responsible policies that enforce our antidumping and countervailing duty laws while addressing the continued threat that non-market economy subsidies and China’s currency manipulation present to the domestic steel industry and American jobs in general,” said Visclosky in his testimony. Leo W. Gerard, International President of the United Steelworkers of America, also voiced his support for fair-trading policies and the need for retirement security for Americans who depend on employer-provided pensions and retiree health care. “Viewing the defined benefit pension situation as a whole, the Steelworkers Union urges the Congress to take action that truly strengthens the system on which so many depend, said Gerard. “A defined benefit plan not only offers unique advantages to employees and companies, but it helps lift the savings rate in our country above its extremely low levels.” STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE PETER J. VISCLOSKY Before the Congressional Steel Caucus, March 16, 2005 “Good morning. I am pleased to have this opportunity to welcome everyone to this Congressional Steel Caucus hearing on the state of the domestic industry and the challenges and priorities we must address in this new Congress. I want to thank Chairman English for his leadership and recognize the vital efforts of the Members of this caucus. I look forward to working with my distinguished colleagues and our distinguished guests to address our shared concerns. “I would also like to recognize this caucus’ recent success in urging the Department of Commerce to extend the Steel Import Monitoring Program. This certainly is a victory for the domestic steel industry, and the efforts of the witnesses we have here today and the Members of this caucus were integral in securing the extension of this program. “However, I also would like to reaffirm my commitment to making this program permanent. Everyone in this room understands that one year of profitability does not guarantee permanent stability in the market. While I am pleased that we will continue to closely monitor steel imports for the next four years, it is important to not lose sight of the long-term success of this industry. I remain committed to ensuring accurate, timely data is provided so that we can act to prevent a resurgence of illegally dumped steel imports such as those that led to the steel crisis of the late 1990s. “In addition to monitoring imports, I remain committed to ensuring the enforcement of our antidumping and countervailing duty laws. That is why I testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on March 2, 2005, to support the continuation of antidumping and countervailing duties on unfairly traded hot-rolled steel imports from Brazil, Japan, and Russia. Each of the subject countries makes far more hot-rolled steel than it consumes, and these countries depend on being able to export their excess capacity. As history has demonstrated, much of this excess capacity will be absorbed by the U.S. market with devastating consequences to the domestic industry. This holds true for many of the countries currently subject to trade remedies that will be under sunset review in the coming months by the ITC. It is essential that we continue to register our unwavering support for upholding these remedies which continue to be necessary and actively work for their continuation. “Countless workers in my District were among those at the former Bethlehem, LTV and National Steel facilities who had dedicated their lives to the production of steel only to find themselves without a job or without their hard-earned pensions and health care benefits due to unfairly traded steel. Growing up in Gary, Indiana, I watched with admiration as the steelworkers contributed to this nation’s national security and manufacturing base. It was devastating to watch the effect the import surges had on these facilities and their employees. That is why I have worked relentlessly to try to preserve our domestic steel industry, the jobs of the steelworkers, and the futures of the retirees and their families. “As we move forward, it is important for this caucus to continue its efforts to ensure fair trade by pursuing responsible policies that enforce our antidumping and countervailing duty laws while addressing the continued threat that non-market economy subsidies and China’s currency manipulation present to the domestic steel industry and American jobs in general. That is why I will continue efforts to hold China accountable for its conduct. “Specific to domestic concerns for the industry, I would like to reiterate my commitment to protecting employee pensions. The Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) has recently posted large deficits in its single employer program. The weakness in the economy, particularly in the steel and airline industries, has led to large and expensive plan terminations that have eliminated the previous surplus and left the single-employer program with a deficit of $11.2 billion. The PBGC previously ran a deficit and turned it around to a surplus, so this is not the first time it has been forced to run a deficit due to the cyclical nature of the economy and bankruptcies. However, given the significant number of retirees that have recently entered the program, I will continue to closely monitor the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation to ensure that it continues to guarantee a minimum level of insurance for retirees whose pensions are in jeopardy. I further urge all Members to join me in monitoring all reform proposals closely. “In closing, I look forward to working with my distinguished colleagues and guests in the coming months as we seek positive solutions to our shared concerns. I am heartened by the bipartisan spirit which has permeated this caucus in the past and hope to see the spirit rekindled as we move forward in this new Congress. Thank you.”
03.15.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today expressed concern over proposals to privatize Social Security and unveiled a new feature on his website designed to demonstrate how much residents of Northwest Indiana could lose under privatization. Visclosky’s Social Security calculator compares annual benefits under the current Social Security program with that of benefits under the plan favored by President Bush and most Congressional Republicans to privatize the system. The web calculator determines expected losses in Social Security benefits based on individuals’ age and annual income. Expected outcomes are based on inflation rates as suggested by the Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) economic assumptions. “I do believe that now is the time to strengthen Social Security, but we must not cut benefits for current and soon-to-be retirees,” said Visclosky. “I believe Democrats and Republicans must work together to develop a common-sense plan that does not pass trillions of dollars of debt onto the future generations.” According to the Center on Economic and Policy Research, under current Bush proposals being considered to privatize Social Security, an average worker in their early 20’s entering the workforce today would lose an estimated $152,000 in benefits over their lifetime, and it could lead to benefit cuts of up to 46 percent in the years to come. Visclosky has stated that he opposes the President's privatization proposal. In addition to answering questions about Social Security at 25 town hall forums held earlier this year, Congressman Visclosky held a Social Security Town Forum last month, attended by over 200 residents of Northwest Indiana. Constituents can access the web calculator on Congressman Visclosky’s website at www.house.gov/visclosky.
03.03.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky today introduced legislation that calls for extending and enhancing the Steel Import Monitoring program, calling the program critical to the region’s steel industry. “The steel import monitoring program is vital to the steel industry in Northwest Indiana,” said Congressman Visclosky. “This legislation to extend and enhance the monitoring program enables the U.S. to identify surges in the marketplace due to improper trading practices from other countries.” Specifically, the legislation would act to make permanent the steel import licensing and monitoring program that was temporarily established by the President on March 5, 2002. A permanent monitoring program would provide an essential tool that would avoid another surge of unfairly traded imports like the spike that devastated the domestic steel industry beginning in 1998. On March 20, 2005, the steel monitoring program will expire, eliminating a monitoring program that provides vital information to the U.S. steel market. Visclosky’s bill, called the Steel Import Monitoring Act (SIMA), would permanently extend the program and expand its coverage to all steel products. Already, the bill has 55 co-sponsors from a broad, bipartisan coalition. Visclosky’s bill also has the approval of local steel leaders, as it would benefit the stability of those working in the industry. "Some steelworkers who lost their jobs have been recalled and retired steelworkers can expect some restoration of lost healthcare benefits, but we're not out of the woods yet. We need a commitment by our government on steel monitoring for marketplace information," said Jim Robinson, District 7 Director for the USWA in Indiana and Illinois. "The union and the industry did our part to consolidate American steel and negotiate a new labor agreement, now the government needs to fulfill its part." Visclosky, who is Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, also wrote a letter to Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez in January, urging the Secretary to commit to an extended import monitoring program. “I believe quick and decisive steps must be taken in order for stability to remain in the steel market,” said Visclosky. “The most imperative of these remaining steps is implementing a permanent, expanded steel import monitoring system that will ensure a level playing field for the local steel industry.”
03.02.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced federal approval for the South Shore West Lake Commuter Rail extension. The approval for the South Shore extension, which is included in the Transportation Equity Act (TEA), is open-ended and does not limit the amount of money Congressman Visclosky can pursue in federal appropriations bills. The last remaining step in developing the rail line is the identification of a permanent funding source from a non-federal entity, such as local or state governments. “With the South Shore authorization now in place, the only thing we need is to identify a non-federal funding source,” said Congressman Visclosky. “The South Shore West Lake extension will provide an opportunity for people to access jobs in the Chicago area more easily, and Northwest Indiana will have the infrastructure needed to attract and retain economic investment in our own backyard.” According to the region’s transportation authority, this authorization establishes the necessary criteria for local and state governments to complete the last step in the process. “This new federal authorization is great news for the area, and the last component needed now is a dedicated non-federal funding source,” said John Parsons, Director of Marketing and Planning for the Northwest Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD). “The prerequisite federal planning studies will start this spring, which will refine the costs and benefits of expanded commuter rail and help advance the project through the federal approval process. Congressman Visclosky has hit a home-run for Northwest Indiana today.” $24.6 million for infrastructure improvements In addition to the South Shore funding authorization, Visclosky also announced $24.6 million for local transportation projects that will encourage economic development in Northwest Indiana. “This money will go improve our infrastructure, which will in turn create jobs and spur economic development,” said Visclosky. “A modernized transportation infrastructure is key to the economic health of the region.” Visclosky secured $10 million for the construction of an interchange at 109th Avenue and Interstate 65 in Crown Point. This interchange is critical to the region, as 109th is the only local road connecting Lake County at State Road 53 to Porter County at State Road 2. The continued growth in Lake and Porter Counties has created a demand for increased accessibility between the counties, and this project will continue to encourage economic development in the region. “This interchange will facilitate travel between Lake and Porter Counties. Transportation is key to economic development,” said Visclosky. “As populations increase in south Lake County and Porter County, people and goods must be able to travel with ease. This project will do just that.” Throughout Lake and Porter Counties, U.S. 30 is highly traveled and congested. To elevate this congestion Visclosky secured $1 million to improve S.R.100 South in Porter County, which can serve as an alternate to U.S.30. These improvements will address current traffic and the additional traffic expected from the new interchange at 109th Avenue to Interstate 65. In Whiting, Visclosky secured $1.3 million for reconstruction of Standard Avenue. This project is a partnership between BP Amoco and the City of Whiting. To meet Homeland Security guidelines, BP needs to reduce the access to their facility to two points. Standard Avenue will continue to be utilized as an entry point to the refinery and the construction will help to secure one of the largest oil refineries in the world. Standard Avenue also connects to East Chicago and this project will benefit traffic flow to and from ISG also. Additionally, Standard Avenue is prone to flooding, and this reconstruction will prevent that in the future. 45th Avenue runs between Gary and Munster, three quarters of a mile south of Ridge Road. Visclosky has secured $2.7 million for improvements 45th Avenue to provide Lake County with another east/west corridor to handle increasing traffic between Calumet Avenue in Munster, U.S. 41 in Highland and State Road 55 in Gary. The proposed improvements would create a continuous turn lane on 45th Avenue. This would allow the east bound and west bound lanes to facilitate increased traffic. In Hammond, State Road 312 needs to be realigned to create two bridge structures over the South Shore and South Bend Railroad and over Hanover Street and the CSX transportation railroad. Recognizing the safety hazards, Visclosky secured $4.2 million for the design and construction of the new structures. These overpasses will reduce the delay experienced by car traffic and also improve safety by separating the automobile traffic from the train traffic. The realignment will alleviate safety problems that large trucks experience at the intersection of Sheffield Avenue. Samuelson Road in Portage runs under the CSX transportation railroad 2,000 feet north of Central Avenue. Currently the underpass is one lane and vehicles must honk before entering the underpass to prevent accidents. Visclosky has obtained $3.2 million in this bill to fund the expansion of the underpass to facilitate traffic in both directions. This expansion will improve transportation safety and traffic flow within the City of Portage. At the project’s completion, Samuelson Road will be two lanes and increased clearance to allow emergency vehicles to pass safely under the bridge. In Valparaiso, Silhavy Road between Vale Park Road and LaPorte Avenue functions as an alternate rout to State Road 49. Visclosky secured $1.2 million to widen the north bound traffic to three lanes. This expansion will more evenly distribute traffic and ease traffic flow. These improvements will stimulate economic vitality in the North Calumet area. In Munster, $500,000 has been secured to reduce congestion from the Southwood intersection to Calumet Avenue and the west 45th Street intersection. The project provides access to the south end of Munster, Dyer and Schererville and creates a win-win for local residents, businesses and the city of Munster by reducing traffic congestion, providing more suitable accommodations for industry and a diversified tax base for the city. In St. John, $200,000 will go toward upgrading the rail crossing at 93rd Avenue, which will increase the safety of the crossing and lessen the amount of waiting time for vehicular traffic. Ross Industrial Park in Kentland is a fully functional economic hub. However, the area lacked adequate access. Visclosky secured $320,000 to improve Bailie Street to connect Ross Park to U.S. 41. The proposed improvements will provide safe access to the park and will increase employment potential at the park. “These projects are part of an ongoing effort to improve the infrastructure in our region,” said Visclosky. “An improved infrastructure will help create jobs and improve the quality of life for all of Northwest Indiana.”
03.01.2005	
02.09.2005	Washington, D.C. – Citing concerns about American jobs being moved overseas and a skyrocketing trade deficit, Congressman Pete Visclosky today joined a bipartisan group of 48 members of Congress to introduce legislation that calls for the repeal of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with China. “Our trading practices must focus on creating American jobs, but our current relationship with China is a one-way street,” said Visclosky. “This trend must be reversed; we should be shipping our products overseas, not our jobs.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), over the next decade the U.S. will lose 20 percent of its steel workers, 18 percent of its aerospace manufacturing jobs, 12 percent of its computer and electronic production workers, 17 percent of its chemical manufacturing jobs, 31 percent of its textile mill jobs and 69 percent of its apparel manufacturing jobs. Locally, Visclosky received support from industry leaders who also believe repealing China’s PNTR status will give a boost to the steel industry, which faces the threat of China beginning to export steel to the U.S. in the next 12 to 18 months. “Right now, the steel industry has to compete with China, a country that manipulates its currency and has the capacity to illegally dump steel in the U.S. market,” said Jim Robinson, District 7 Director for the USWA in Indiana and Illinois. “By strengthening our trade laws, the local economy will benefit by way of a more competitive steel industry.” “The local steel industry would be strengthened, and more jobs would be created under Congressman Visclosky’s plan to tighten trade with China,” said Tom Hargrove, President of the Steelworkers Local 1010. “It is time to focus on the working families in this country and pass this legislation.” In addition to the massive job cuts due to outsourcing work to countries like China, the existing agreement with China has led to a record trade deficit that adversely affects the national budget. The U.S. Census Bureau cites the 2004 trade deficit with China to be $147.7 billion, which represents nearly a quarter of the record $596.3 billion trade deficit. By implementing a more stringent trading policy, Visclosky said the country would also be on better footing to address the huge budget deficits while reducing the long-term national debt. “To me, this is an easy decision,” said Visclosky. “Instead of continuing with the status quo, we should act now to create more jobs and reduce the amount of debt we owe to foreign countries.”
02.03.2005	Washington, D.C. – With President Bush’s plan to privatize Social Security becoming the dominant issue of debate throughout the country, Congressman Pete Visclosky today announced that he will be holding a Social Security Town Hall Forum to listen to his constituents’ opinions on Social Security, and examine the facts that affect the program. “Now is the time to strengthen Social Security for our children, and before any action is taken, I want to hear what Northwest Indianans think about this important issue,” said Visclosky. “The best way to address Social Security is to work in a bipartisan, common-sense fashion that will ensure seniors and future generations have guaranteed economic security for the foreseeable future.” Social Security Town Hall Forum: Tuesday, February 22, 2005 2:30 – 3:30PM Radisson Hotel at Star Plaza 800 East 81st Avenue, Merrillville Celebrity Ball Room In addition to audience participation at the forum, Elmer Blankenship, who is President of the Indiana Alliance for Retired Americans, will present information on the Social Security program, examine President Bush’s privatization proposal, and explore other options to ensure the success of Social Security. “Social Security is the bedrock of retirement for a majority of the country, which means we need to strengthen the program without cutting benefits and increasing our national debt to pay for it,” said Blankenship. Last night in the State of the Union Speech, President Bush called for a privatization program for people under the age of 55 that would divert current Social Security taxes into stock funds that would be administered by the federal government. According to Visclosky, the upcoming Town Hall Forum is an opportunity to examine how Bush’s proposal will affect those under the age of 55 and presents an open forum for anyone to express their opinion on Social Security. “I encourage anyone who is interested in the future of Social Security to come to this forum and become an active participant,” said Visclosky. “After all, this is our government, Social Security is our program and any changes made to it will have a great impact on those who want to receive it in the future.”
01.30.2005	Washington, D.C. – In conjunction with the Mayors of Hammond, Whiting, East Chicago, Gary and Portage, Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the Marquette Plan study has been completed, fulfilling the next step in the process to secure federal funding to improve Lake Michigan’s shoreline for public use. The study, which was conducted over the past eight months by JJR, an urban planning and environmental consulting firm, came about because of the dedication and commitment of Mayor Scott King of Gary, Mayor Thomas McDermott Jr. of Hammond, Mayor Douglas Olson of Portage, Mayor George Pabey of East Chicago and Mayor Joseph Stahura of Whiting. These mayors, along with their committee members who are a part of the Marquette working group each had a hand in shaping the future of Northwest Indiana. The working group includes Dorreen Carey of Gary, Paul Myers of East Chicago, A.J. Monroe of Portage, Rudy Wunder of Whiting and Milan Kruszynski of Hammond. “Because of the vision of these mayors, and dedication of the working group, the Marquette Plan will improve people’s lives,” said Visclosky. “By making the commitment to reinvest in Lake Michigan, these mayors are helping to create a Northwest Indiana that will have new economic opportunities, more jobs and enhanced recreational activities.” In addition to the local mayors and the working group, Visclosky is quick to praise state officials like State Representative Earl Harris as well as state governmental agencies like the Shoreline Development Commission, the Division of Natural Resources and the Northwest Indiana Regional Planning Commission (NIRPC) for their ongoing support of this project. “Thanks to help of local and state officials, as well as agencies like the Shoreline Development Commission and the Division of Natural Resources, the Marquette Plan is on a path to success,” said Visclosky. “The Marquette Plan brings together the cooperation of local government to create a strategy that will help develop Northwest Indiana’s economic opportunity, and increase public access to the Lake Michigan Shoreline,” said John Swanson, Executive Director of NIRPC. Cities Working Together In order for the initial study to be completed, each city paid $8,000 toward the $40,000 local match required to receive a $160,000 Lake Michigan Coastal Grant. The funding, totaling $200,000, was used to fund the feasibility study which is now complete. The study includes details of proposed lines for recreational trails and setbacks from the lake. “The Marquette Plan is on track to provide short and long-term benefits,” said Mayor Olson. “By taking action now, Northwest Indiana will ensure the economic vitality of our lakeshore and our children will be the beneficiaries of this historic initiative.” “By working together to get the Marquette Plan moving, each city will share in its success,” said Mayor King. “I am proud that all five cities, along with Congressman Visclosky have taken the necessary steps to invest in our shoreline.” The Marquette Plan calls for procuring land no longer needed by industry and using the space for public parkland, including a pedestrian and bicycle trail that will stretch from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of the City of Portage. This initiative will in turn lead to new economic opportunities. “There is no better way to retain and recruit businesses to the area than reinvesting in the shoreline,” said Mayor McDermott. “It also makes sense to find a win-win solution with the industries that now have excess land that can be used for the Marquette Plan.” Guiding Principles There are three guiding principles for the Marquette Plan, which were part of an agreement signed by officials from the five cities. First, 75 percent of the lakeshore should be recaptured and opened to public use. Second, land recaptured directly on the lakefront should have a minimum setback of 200 feet from the lake. Third, there should be a continuous biking and walking trail from the Illinois state line to the eastern boundary of the City of Portage for all Northwest Indiana residents to enjoy. “The principles of the Marquette Plan ensure that the participating cities will work together to improve the overall quality of life in Northwest Indiana in a way that best serves each individual city,” said Mayor Pabey, one of the three mayors who took office after the initial agreement was signed by the five cities. “I look forward to improving East Chicago by participating in this important project.” “The Marquette Plan establishes a foundation that will help leverage the collective strengths of Northwest Indiana’s communities,” said Mayor Stahura. “Each city will reap the rewards of an interconnected recreation system across Lake Michigan’s south shore.” “Now that the initial study is completed, local, state and federal officials will need to work together to ensure the continued investment in the shoreline,” said Visclosky. “I am extremely proud that we have reached this stage in the Marquette Plan, and I look forward to making the plan a reality.”
01.26.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Visclosky today called on Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez to extend and enhance the steel import monitoring system before its expiration in March of 2005. The Import Monitoring Program, which was established in 2002 as part of President Bush’s steel safeguard proclamation, was established as a tool to monitor the domestic steel market from damaging import surges. Visclosky, who is Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, wrote to Secretary Gutierrez today to make the import monitoring program permanent, as it is vital to the stability of the U.S. steel market. “The steel import monitoring program proved an invaluable tool while the steel safeguard was active; enabling government and industry to identify surges or spikes from certain trading partners wishing to circumvent the President’s safeguard order. This program, however, is as vital today as it was while the steel safeguard was in place,” wrote Visclosky in the letter to the Commerce Secretary. The steel import monitoring system is the best option to provide information and data to policy makers and market participants. The program has received unanimous support from domestic steel producers, and continuing it is a priority for the steel industry at both a national and local level. "In order for the U.S. steel industry to compete globally, we need tools like the Steel Import Monitoring Program," said Leo Gerard, President of the United Steelworkers of America (USWA). "By extending and enhancing this monitoring program, Secretary Gutierrez will be taking the necessary steps that keep our steel industry healthy to sustain security for both active and retired steelworkers." Support for the program also comes from local leaders involved in the steel industry. Jim Robinson, District 7 Director for the USWA in Indiana and Illinois, cites the benefits the monitoring program has for steelworkers in the local economy. "Some steelworkers who lost their jobs have been recalled and retired steelworkers can expect some restoration of lost healthcare benefits, but we're not out of the woods yet. We need a commitment by our government on steel monitoring for marketplace information," Robinson said. "The union and the industry did our part to consolidate American steel and negotiate a new labor agreement, now the government needs to fullfill its part." “Since the import monitoring program began, the local economy has benefited from a profitable steel industry,” said Robinson. “It would be a step backward to repeal the monitoring program, which provides our steel industry with vital information on the marketplace.” In addition to Visclosky, the members of the Executive Committee of the Congressional Steel Caucus signed on to the letter, showing bipartisan support for a continued steel monitoring program. “We believe quick and decisive steps must be taken to advance other components and goals of the President’s program in order for stability to remain in the steel market,” wrote Visclosky in his letter to Gutierrez. “The most imperative of these remaining steps is implementing a permanent, expanded steel import monitoring system.”
01.05.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Merrillville) announced today that he will hold twenty-five town hall forums throughout Indiana’s First Congressional District during the month of January. Each year Visclosky holds forums throughout the region to hear directly from constituents and provide an update on the issues facing Congress and Northwest Indiana. “Town Forums are a great way to talk directly with the people of Northwest Indiana,” Visclosky said. “I always look forward to these meetings because it gives me an opportunity to hear from constituents so I can best represent the area.” Visclosky has scheduled a town forum in every region of the district, and in nearly every community. The forums are grouped to provide people several options to speak with Congressman Visclosky in their own town or in a near by community. Just like last year, a local middle or high school student will have the opportunity to introduce Congressman Visclosky in his or her community and lead the crowd in the Pledge of Allegiance. “These students are the future of Northwest Indiana, and I am excited that they are taking an active role in their community while they are still in school,” said Visclosky. “I am excited to be introduced by these young leaders and I look forward to all of the forums.”Congressman Visclosky’s Town Forum Schedule for 2005: Monday, January 10, 2005 2:30 p.m. – Portage Library, 2665 Irving Street Introduction by Carolyn Tackett, 8th Grader at Willow Creek Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Porter County Commissioner’s Chambers (Valparaiso), 155 Indiana Ave., #205 Introduction by Alex Paul, 8th Grader at Benjamin Franklin Junior High School 7:30 p.m. – Thomas Library Service Center (Chesterton), 200 West Indiana Avenue Introduction by Kasey Zhong, 8th Grader at Chesterton Middle School Tuesday, January 11, 2005 2:30 p.m. – Merrillville Town Hall, 7820 Broadway Introduction by Ava Muex, 8th Grader at Pierce Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Crown Point Main Library, 214 South Court Street Introduction by Natalie Nonos, 8th Grader at Robert A. Taft Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Lowell Town Hall, 501 East Main Street Introduction by Maggie Rufo, 8th Grader at Lowell Middle School Wednesday, January 12, 2005 2:30 p.m. – North Hammond Mail Library, 564 State Street Introduction by Brittany Delgado, 8th Grader at Clark Middle School 5:30 p.m. – South Hammond EB-Hayward Branch Library, 1212 172nd Street Introduction by Joseph Foster, 8th Grader at Clark Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Whiting Community Center, 1938 Clark Street Introduction by Alexis Jakubowski, 8th Grader at Whiting Middle School Thursday, January 13, 2005 2:30 p.m. – East Chicago Public Library, 1008 West Chicago Avenue Introduction by Mariah Truttling, 8th Grader at Block Junior High School 5:30 p.m. – Dyer/Schererville Library, 1001 West Lincolnway Introduction by Meghan Blais, 6th Grader at Kahler Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Highland Lincoln Recreation Center, Room 19, 2450 Lincoln Street Introduction by Katie Ellish, 8th Grader at Highland Middle School Friday, January 14, 2005 2:30 p.m. – Gary Wildermuth Library, 501 South Lake Street Introduction by Jacqueline Outlar, 6th grader at Kennedy King Elementary School, Wildermuth - Gary 5:30 p.m. – Gary YWCA, 150 West 15th Avenue, Introduction by Desiree Cross, 8th Grader at Dunbar-Pulaski Middle School 7:30 p.m. – Munster Town Hall, 1005 Ridge Road Introduction by Tess Edvardsen, Student at Wilbur Wright Middle School Saturday, January 15, 2005 9:00 a.m. – Hebron Library, 201 West Sigler Street Introduction by Stacy Blank, 8th Grader at Hebron Junior-High School 11:00 a.m. – Demotte Town Hall, 112 Carnation Street, SE Introduction by Ashley Vankley, 8th grader at Kankakee Valley Middle School 1:00 p.m. – Jasper County Library, 208 West Susan Street, Introduction by Jacob Egan, 8th Grader at Rensselaer Central Middle School 3:30 p.m. – Lake Station City Hall Council Chambers, 3625 Central Avenue Introduction by Josh Taylor, 11th Grader at Edison Junior-Senior Middle School Friday, January 28, 2005 2:30 p.m. – Saint John Library, 9450 Wicker Drive Introduction by Meredith Cioffi, Student at Michael Grimmer Middle School 5:30 p.m. – Hobart City Hall Council Chambers, 414 Main Street Introduction by Hillary Cherry, 8th grader at Hobart Middle School, Hobart 7:30 p.m. – Griffith Town Hall, 111 North Broad Street Introduction by Mark Blount, 8th Grader at Griffith Middle School Saturday, January 29, 2005 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) – Benton County Library, 102 North 3rd Street Introduction by Kelsee Claire, 8th grader at Benton Central Junior-Senior High School, Benton County (Fowler) 11:00 a.m. – Kentland Town Hall, 300 North 3rd Street Introduction by Caitlyn Yana, 8th Grader at South Newton Middle School 1:30 p.m. – Lake Township Fire House, Lake Village, 9728 North 300 West Introduction by Jacob Patz, 7th grader at North Newton Junior-Senior High School, Lake Village
12.01.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released $531,514 in hazard mitigation funds to the Indiana State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) for a voluntary project to purchase eight flood-damaged homes and two vacant lots in the City of Rensselaer. All the properties are in the Austin Street area and were damaged by the Iroquois River during the flood of July 2003. This flood event was higher than any other previous flood event since the early 1900’s. The properties are all located within the 100-year flood plain of the Iroquois River and were determined to be damaged over 50% of there value. “I am pleased FEMA was able to assist people affected by this terrible flood,” Visclosky said, “This money will give people options to recoup their property losses and get their lives back on track.” Through a partnership of federal, state and local governments and homeowners, the properties will be purchased at a pre-disaster fair market value and the area used as neighborhood parks or open space in perpetuity. This project will significantly reduce the loss of life and property and eliminate the need for emergency response and evacuations during future flood events in this area. Visclosky said, “These parks will add to quality of life for nearby residents and decrease potential damage to private property in the future.” “These kinds of projects are the cornerstone of disaster prevention efforts and illustrate the importance of local, state and federal government working together for the benefit of citizens,” said Edward G. Buikema, FEMA Regional Director. FEMA will pay 75 percent of the $708,685 cost of the project through its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The City of Rensselaer will contribute the entire 25 percent match requirement of $177,171 for the project. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. FEMA's continuing mission within the new department is to lead the effort to prepare the nation for all hazards and effectively manage federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. FEMA also initiates proactive mitigation activities, trains first responders, and manages the National Flood Insurance Program and the U.S. Fire Administration.
11.29.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced six Congressional earmarks, totaling over $27.2 million, that he secured for Northwest Indiana to fight crime, terrorism, and gang violence in our communities. Visclosky secured the funding in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for FY 2005. The recipients of these Congressional funds will use them to purchase equipment necessary to upgrade technology and improve communications between First Responders at the local, state and national levels. This will help to protect law enforcement and citizens during emergencies and terrorist attacks in Lake and Porter Counties and the entire region. Funding was also secured for two crime prevention programs. Additionally, Visclosky’s Bulletproof Vests Partnership Program will be funded through this bill. Visclosky said, “If there is one thing we have learned during our war against terror it is that communication is essential in keeping law enforcement safe. Technology can help our police departments maintain communications and keep our citizens safe. I will continue to do everything I can to help our law enforcement protect us.” The six earmarks are divided between the Gary Police Department, Portage Police Department, Porter Police Department, the Jasper County Sheriff’s office and two programs, “No Workshops No Jumpshots” and a Public Safety Support Center at Calumet College. Visclosky secured $500,000 for communications upgrades and improvement at the Gary Police Department. The city has created a completely new Emergency Operations Center in the Gary Public Safety Building, and have made the facility available for state, federal and local emergency usage. The key to making the center function is to facilitate communication between all of these agencies. This funding will be used to expand and improve the technologies used for communication in emergency situations. The crime fighting value of the new Emergency Operations Center and the communications funding will benefit everyone in the region. Visclosky said, “The Operations Center in Gary is impressive. Chief Watson has made great strides to integrating technology into the crime fighting techniques of his officers. I am happy to be able to secure this funding for him and to encourage other departments to take advantage of the resources we have in Northwest Indiana.” For the Portage Police Department, Visclosky secured $200,000 to purchase and install surveillance equipment in patrol cars. This video technology provides evidence of crimes and what officers hear and see on patrol. Video can capture roadside stops and will monitor events that an officer may not be able to see. Many felony arrests are made by routine police work, the better the tools officers have the better they can do their job. “Every time a police officer on patrol takes a criminal off the street we are safer,” Visclosky said, “these patrol cameras will increase officer safety, efficiency and help the community at large.” The Porter Police Department will receive $25,000 from Visclosky to install laptop computers into patrol cars and upgrades to the dispatch center. Access to information from the patrol car can save an officer on duty valuable time and facilitate speedy arrests. Police will also have the ability to complete reports from the car allowing them to spend more time on the streets. The Jasper County Sheriff’s Department received a $145,000 earmark from Visclosky for upgrades to their 9-1-1 system. The funding is critical to county wide dispatch for seventeen agencies, from police to fire and ambulance, and all emergency systems. “The funding for Town of Porter and Jasper County will allow police officers to do their jobs better. Everyday they work, keeping people safe and making our communities good places to live. I am proud to deliver the funds to help them work,” Visclosky said. Visclosky secured funding for two crime prevention programs He secured a $1.3 million earmark to establish a Public Safety Support Center at Caluemet College of St. Joseph. Located in Whiting, this center will provide research in public safety and provide enhanced crime reporting. The support will be directed to local law enforcement and community members interested in assisting law enforcement. The new center will create a clearinghouse for data form police, courts, and social service organizations to evaluate public policy and create strategies to improve crime prevention. Visclosky also secured an additional $100,000 for the “No Workshops No Jumpshots” Program to discourage youth violence by giving students an incentive to succeed in school. The program began at Edison Middle School in Gary in 2000 and has been providing a positive environment for students ever since. To date, Visclosky has secured $496,000 for this program. “I believe it is just as important to prevent crime as to stop it,” Visclosky said, “Safer communities benefit everyone and programs like these are an important part of our fight against crime.” These crime prevention programs are two of several programs that Visclosky helps to fund around the 1st Congressional District. Visclosky’s Congressional earmarks have also brought National Guard programs such as “Checkmate Drugs” and “Hooked on Fishing, Not Drugs” to the district. The Omnibus Appropriations Bill also included $25 million for the Visclosky Bulletproof Vest Partnership. Visclosky authored the original bill in 1997, and it was signed into law by President Bill Clinton on June 16, 1998. Visclosky was successful in reauthorizing the bill in 2000 to extended the program through FY 2004. In March, the House agreed to extend the program to help communities buy bulletproof vests until 2007. Visclosky authored the original bill because he was disturbed to discover that many criminals had life-saving bulletproof vests, but many police officers did not. The original received overwhelming bipartisan support in the House because similar problems were being experienced by police departments across the country. The program has been effective. Since 1999, 23 law enforcement agencies in the First Congressional District has used the federal grants to purchase 1,119 vests.
11.21.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced that he has secured a total of $4 million in federal funds for rail transportation. Of this money, $1.5 million is the necessary matching funds for the Westlake Corridor Expansion Study and $2.5 million is for improvements and recapitalization on the existing line. The monies for the expansion study were secured in the FY 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill and will match the local contributions of Lake and Porter Counties, Cedar Lake, Dyer, Griffith, Hammond, Highland, Hobart, Lowell, Merrillville, Munster, St. John, Schererville and Valparaiso. The $1.5 million will provide the full federal match for both phases of the study. Congressman Visclosky said, “In April of this year I went to the communities in Northwest Indiana with a proposal to expand commuter rail. Both counties and the twelve cities and towns made a commitment to invest in a study and I made a commitment to secure the federal match. Today I am pleased to announce that federal match is in place.” Each of the two phases in the study will cost $1.5 million, $750,000 local funding from the communities and counties and $750,000 from the federal government. The studies will develop management and financial plans for the construction of the new line and determine the best and most efficient way to expand commuter service. The critical first phase will expand service through Hammond and Munster on the Old Monon Corridor and will provide for a fork in the tracks at Munster that will begin the second phase. Phase two expands east to Valparaiso through Highland, Schererville, Griffith, Merrillville and Hobart and south to Lowell through Dyer, St. John and Cedar Lake. The twelve communities and two counties have agreed to participate in funding of both of the studies. Their cooperation helped Visclosky leverage the complete federal funding this year. NICTD Director, Gerald Hanas expressed his excitement over the federal funding saying, “I want to thank the Senators and especially Congressman Visclosky for his hard work and attention to detail. Congressman Visclosky has always been very dedicated to transportation options in Northwest Indiana. This funding will have a huge economic impact on the region, it will allow us to continue our recapitalization plans. This money represents the first step towards the expansion of commuter rail service that the region has ever seen.” Expansion of commuter rail has great economic benefits to the region as a whole. Commuters on the existing South Shore line report approximately $250 million in annual income. This is money that is spent in Northwest Indiana, building homes, buying groceries and stimulating other economic growth. Riders have access to over 500,000 jobs within one mile of the South Shore stops in Chicago, more than doubling the existing job base in Lake and Porter Counties. The recent investments in Northwest Indiana by Harris Bank demonstrate the economic growth associated with commuter rail expansion. “Northwest Indiana is a great place to live,” Visclosky said, “people who work in Chicago are looking for the high quality of life that we can offer. With increased access to Chicago jobs and more commuter options the region becomes an even more attractive place to raise a family. This is just the beginning, as the rail line expands and stations grow investors will want to put money here in our growing economy.” Once this bill is enacted into law, the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) will submit a request for proposal to begin soliciting environmental and engineering firms to complete the study. Visclosky also reaffirmed his commitment to the existing South Shore Line by securing $2.5 million toward the recapitalization project. The overall quality and reliability of the existing line is important to the future of expansion. This funding will enable NICTD to engineer and install bi-directional signals and centralized traffic control systems to allow for greater reliability and create increased track capacity and safety. The proposed plan is a state of the art system to support the signal network on the rails. The funding also establishes a central control for train dispatch and station improvement. To date Visclosky has secured $29 million in Congressional Earmarks for South Shore expansion and recapitalization and $800,000 in Homeland Security funding to ensure safety on the rails.
11.17.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Indiana) announced he will be distributing Presidential Inauguration tickets to constituents on a come first serve basis. Every Member of Congress receives a limited number tickets. These tickets are distributed to Members on or about the 10th of January. Constituents receiving tickets will be notified by mail the week of January 10th, 2005. Tickets for the January 20th event will be available for pickup the week of January 17th in Congressman Visclosky’s Washington DC Office. Ticket recipients will need to come in and sign for the tickets personally. To request tickets please contact Congressman Visclosky’s Washington Office through house email or by fax at 202-225-2493. Please clearly indicate “Presidential Inauguration Request” in your email and give your full name, mailing address, phone number, email address and number of people in your party. Your request will be confirmed by our office via U.S. mail. Final confirmation of ticket availability will be sent January 10th. For further information please call 202-225-2461.
10.09.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $9.380 million to complete the final phase of the Gary/Chicago International Airport National Guard Facility. The fiscal year 2005 funding will complete the construction of the Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center which will provide the entire supporting infrastructure that soldiers require to perform training assemblies and logistics. In addition, the Center will act as an emergency shelter for the citizens of Northwest Indiana in the case of a natural disaster and at the direction of the Governor and the Adjutant General of Indiana. Visclosky said, “This money will go along way in our effort for homeland security. Having National Guard in Gary provides a higher level of security in the case of terrorist incidents. Additionally, development at the airport boosts our economy. Every new building built at the airport brings jobs to Northwest Indiana. This kind of sustainable airport development is important to the security and economy of the region.” In conjunction with last year’s federal appropriation of $15.581 million, the Indiana Army National Guard is in the process of constructing the new Armed Forces Reserve Center and a Limited Army Aviation Support Facility at the Gary/Chicago International Airport, located in the City of Gary. The Armed Forces Reserve Center will total approximately 92,035 square feet. The stationing of these units in the northern part of Indiana provides this heavily populated area of the state with units that will have a great impact of homeland security. The new construction of the Armed Forces Reserve Center and a Limited Army Aviation Support Facility will fully implement the latest Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism measures. These measures will help to ensure the safety and protection of our service members and their equipment. Visclosky said, “I am pleased to continue securing funding for development of the Gary Airport. I must thank Senator Bayh for getting the authorization language to make this appropriation possible and I must also thank Governor Kernan for moving Indiana National Guard units to Gary. My commitment to development at the Gary Airport is strong and I will continue to fight for federal funding for military expansion as well as increased commercial service.” In fiscal year 2004, Congressman Visclosky, Senator Bayh, Senator Lugar, and Governor Kernan announced the approval of $15.581 million for the first phase of construction for the facility, which will house the Guard’s medical company, weapons of mass destruction civil support team, an air evacuation unit, a meteorological type unit and five Blackhawk helicopters at the Gary/Chicago Airport. Visclosky said, “I would like to point out, securing this money would not have been possible in Washington if not for the forward thinking of Governor Kernan when he made this project the state's top military priority and I thank him for his vision. In August 2002 when then-Lieutenant Governor Kernan determined that it would be in the best interest of the state and the region to move several Indiana National Guard Units to Northwest Indiana.”
10.08.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced today that his Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program has been reauthorized by the House of Representatives through fiscal year 2007. This vital program was included in H.R. 2714, a measure to reauthorize the State Justice Institute which passed the House of Representatives under Unanimous Consent late Friday night. The bill will now be sent to the President for his signature. This program provides federal matching grants for local law enforcement to buy bulletproof vests for officers. Visclosky authored the original bill in 1997, and it was signed into law by President Bill Clinton on June 16, 1998. Visclosky was successful in reauthorizing the bill in 2000 to extended the program through FY 2004. Today the House agreed to extend the program to help communities buy bulletproof vests until 2007. Visclosky authored the original bill because he was disturbed to discover that many criminals had life-saving bulletproof vests, but many police officers did not. The original received overwhelming bipartisan support in the House because similar problems were being experienced by police departments across the country. The program has been effective. Since 1999, 32 law enforcement agencies in the First Congressional District have secured $336,866 the federal grants to purchase 1,830 vests. “The brave men and women of law enforcement put their lives on the line every day to protect all of us from criminals,” Visclosky said. “We owe it to them to give them the tools they need to do their jobs safely. Bulletproof vests save officers’ lives, and we must do everything we can to see that all officers who need them have them.”
09.23.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky (D-Indiana), continuing his fight for the domestic steel industry, wrote a letter to Secretary Evans at the Department of Commerce today demanding that The Steel Import Monitoring Program be made permanent. Visclosky was joined by 70 other Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, including Congressman Phil English, Chairman of the Steel Caucus. This is in direct response to indications from a Department of Commerce notice that Secretary Evans and the Bush Administration are wavering on their commitment to import monitoring. Visclosky said, “President Bush, when he unilaterally revoked the steel tariffs, said that this monitoring program was important to keeping the steel industry moving in a positive direction. If we are to continue the fight to protect the domestic steel industry from dumping, we must make monitoring permanent. Without import monitoring, the lag in information is detrimental to the industry. If imports spike, it could be nine months or a year before we can react and correct the problem.” The President, Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans and US Trade Representative Robert Zoellick have all said that the continuation and expansion of steel import monitoring is important. In fact, during an interview with Lou Dobbs on CNN on December 4, 2003, Secretary Evans said, “We’ve told the industry that the licensing program we put in place during the safeguard period will be extended. In fact, not only will it be extended for an indefinite period of time, but we’ll expand it to include products that are not now included under the licensing program.” Since that interview the Department of Commerce has released a notice indicating that they are not only thinking of not making the program permanent, but may be considering the elimination of the monitoring program before their March 5, 2005 expiration date. “When President Bush revoked the tariffs, he promised to make monitoring permanent so the effects of foreign steel would be fully understood. He has not kept this promise and I will continue fighting to make sure monitoring becomes stronger and a permanent part of the industry. This is not a time to be dragging our feet about this. Monitoring is critical to the long term health of the domestic steel industry and shame on us if we allow these programs to expire.”
09.13.2004	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Pete Visclosky announced two crime fighting grants for the City of Gary and Town of Griffith. Gary received $32,987 and Griffith received $4,250 in Gang Resistance Education and Training (GREAT) Grants. Visclosky said, “Our law enforcement officers risk their lives every day to protect our neighbors. The funds from these grants can be used to help teach young people how to avoid gangs and crime. These skills are important in preventing problems and keeping our officers safe.” The GREAT Grants can be used with a life skills program designed to give students the skills they need to avoid gang pressure and youth violence. GREAT’s violence prevention curriculum helps students develop values and practice positive behaviors that will help them avoid destructive activities and situations. Visclosky said, “This program coordinates federal, regional, state and local agencies as well as community and civic groups to help our youth stay on the right path. This is no small task and we must continue to fight for programs and funding like this.” The program trains law enforcement officers in a school based curriculum so they can then teach children important life skills including gang avoidance and anti-violence techniques.
