03.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Deb Haaland (D-NM) introduced the Indian Community Economic Enhancement Act of 2019 to support Indian Country’s ability to become more self-reliant and help reduce the persistent poverty and unemployment that plague Indian Country. “Across the country, Native American entrepreneurs are ready to start new businesses, create jobs, and lift up their communities,” said Torres. “For too long, lack of access to credit and community development have hampered tribes’ entrepreneurial spirit. This bill is a first step to change that, and I’m pleased to work with my colleague Congresswoman Haaland to introduce this important legislation.” “We all know that economic development is key to self-determination, but often times the system doesn’t work for Native communities. So, we’re introducing a bill to create more paths to success to jump start economic development in Indian Country,” said Haaland, Co-chair of the Native American Caucus. Specifically, the bill would Elevate and fund the Department of Commerce’s Office of Native American Business Development; Ensure effective implementation of the Buy Indian Act within the Departments of Interior and Health and Human Services; and reauthorize the Social and Economic Development Strategies (SEDS) grant program administered by the Administration for Native Americans. The Indian Community Economic Enhancement Act of 2019 was first introduced by U.S. Senator John Hoeven (R-ND). The legislation has been endorsed by the National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development, Native American Contractors Association, National Congress of American Indians, Native American Gaming Association, Native American Finance Officers Association, Alaska Native Village Corporation Association, American Indian Science and Engineering Society, and the United South and Eastern Tribes Sovereignty Protection Fund. ###
03.19.2019	Grant will fund the Los Angeles County Human Trafficking Task Force Program; since 2015, the task force has made 1,624 arrests in connection to human trafficking activities and rescued 324 victims Torres previously led efforts to secure nearly $70,000 in federal funding to fight human trafficking and prostitution in the Inland Empire WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded a $749,982 grant to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to combat human trafficking. The grant will fund the Los Angeles County Human Trafficking Task Force (LACHTTF) Program to develop, enhance, and implement collaborative approaches to identify victims of human trafficking within the County, investigate and prosecute sex and labor trafficking cases at the local, state, and federal levels and address the individual needs of victims through the provision of comprehensive array of quality services. “Human trafficking isn’t something that only occurs in faraway places, it’s happening in our own backyards every single day. To crack down on this horrible crime, we need to ensure that our local law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to put perpetrators behind bars and keep our communities safe,” said Congresswoman Torres. “This support from the Department of Justice will enable the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to enhance its already successful efforts to thwart human trafficking in the Inland Empire and provide survivors with the justice and services needed to help them reclaim their lives. Local agencies should take advantage of the training opportunities available to them by joining this task force—it’s the first step to make certain that this vital program continues.” “I would like to thank Congresswoman Norma Torres for her tireless work in the field of combatting the scourge of human trafficking. Her bipartisan efforts as part of the Congressional Human Trafficking Caucus have helped secure funding for this very important law enforcement and humanitarian effort,” said Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva. “Today’s grant award will help continue to fund the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force.” Last year, Torres led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in a letter to the House Committee on Appropriations calling for $50 million in funding nationwide for DOJ grant programs that support anti-human trafficking task forces, such as the LARHTTF. Torres is also a member of the Congressional Human Trafficking Caucus. She previously helped secure nearly $70,000 in DOJ grants to combat human trafficking and prostitution in the City of Pomona. Torres is a member of the powerful House Appropriations and Rules Committees. ###
03.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate, including 12 Republican Senators, voted in support of the resolution of disapproval to terminate President Trump’s emergency declaration: “Today’s bipartisan Senate vote was an important step to reassert the independence of Congress as a co-equal branch of government. I’m pleased that the Senate has joined the House of Representatives in reminding President Trump that in the American system of government, it’s Congress, not the Executive, that’s responsible for deciding how the taxpayers’ hard-earned dollars will be spent. “President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency was a blatant attempt to thwart the will of Congress. When Congress rejected his request for $5.7 billion for a border wall, he decided to use his emergency powers to obtain the funds that Congress denied him. And if there was ever any doubt about President Trump’s intentions, he removed that doubt when he told the country: ‘I didn’t need to do this.’ Mr. President, if you didn’t need to do it, it’s not an emergency.” Torres is a member of the House Appropriations and Rules Committees. ###
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump submitted his fiscal year 2020 budget request: “President Trump’s budget request turns its back on hard-working American families and vulnerable seniors and threatens the nation’s ability to balance our budget. After giving millionaires and corporations a tax break, the President’s proposal targets people who are already struggling to make ends meet to try and make his ballooning deficit look better. “To once again demand $8.6 billion for an ineffective, wasteful border wall while making extreme cuts to the programs our communities depend on, like Medicare and Medicaid, is nothing short of irresponsible. President Trump is making it clear that he only wants more government shutdowns and uncertainty. This budget represents everything that is wrong with Washington. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will work to responsibly fund our government, protect access to health care, and invest in the well-being of the 35th district and the Inland Empire.” Torres is a member of the House Appropriations and Rules Committees. ###
03.07.2019	OMB currently classifies 9-1-1 dispatchers as clerical workers—the same category as secretaries, office clerks, and taxicab dispatchers The 911 SAVES Act would update this classification to appropriately reflect the important role of 9-1-1 dispatchers in directing emergency response and providing lifesaving emergency medical instruction WATCH FULL PRESS CONFERENCE HERE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (CA-35), the only former 9-1-1 dispatcher serving in Congress, and Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-1), a former Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent and federal prosecutor, introduced H.R. 1629, the bipartisan 911 Supporting Accurate Views of Emergency Services (SAVES) Act to reclassify 9-1-1 call-takers and dispatchers from “Office and Administrative Support Occupations” to “Protective Service Occupations” in the Office of Management and Budget Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) catalog. The current classification reflects an outdated, misinformed view of the nation’s 100,000 public safety telecommunicators. The 911 SAVES Act is the first bill of its kind to give 9-1-1 dispatchers the recognition they deserve for the work they do every day to protect and save the lives of the public and first responders. “After more than 17 years as a 9-1-1 dispatcher, I know firsthand the challenges our public safety dispatchers face, the stress they are put under, and the critical importance of their work. Without dispatchers, law enforcement, firefighters, and EMTs wouldn’t be able to do their jobs,” said Congresswoman Torres. “The 911 SAVES Act recognizes the significance of these roles and ensures all classification standards put public safety first. I’m proud to work with Congressman Fitzpatrick to finally give 9-1-1 dispatchers their due—making us all safer in the long run.” “As a former FBI Agent, I know the work done by our 9-1-1 operators and dispatchers is critical for the safety of our community. When we are in danger, we call 9-1-1 and rely on those on the other end of the line to make sure we get the help we need,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “This legislation will give our 9-1-1 operators and dispatchers the resources, benefits, and recognition they deserve.” Specifically, the 911 SAVES Act would direct OMB to update their classification for public safety telecommunicators as a protective service within the SOC catalog. Federal agencies rely on the SOC, a vast catalog of occupations, for statistical purposes. Including public safety telecommunicators in the protective service group would make the SOC a more accurate and useful resource, and would better align the SOC with related classification systems. The bill has been endorsed by the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials (APCO) International, the NENA: The 9-1-1 Association, and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). Federal Communications Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel also applauds all efforts to get 9-1-1 operators the designation they deserve. APCO Executive Director and CEO Derek K. Poarch said, “The work performed by Public Safety Telecommunicators is nothing short of extraordinary, and it is 100% ‘protective.’ Passage of the 9-1-1 SAVES Act will be a win for public safety, and APCO’s going to do everything it can to help make sure that happens.” NENA President Jamison Peevyhouse said, "We applaud Rep. Torres, a longtime supporter of the 9-1-1 community, and Rep. Fitzpatrick for their leadership on this issue. NENA and its members have long advocated for an accurate statistical classification for 9-1-1 professionals to support critical research into the mental and physical impacts of 9-1-1 jobs. We urge all members of Congress to support this non-partisan, cost-free measure that reflects the respect and support the American public has for its 9-1-1 professionals, who answer more than 240 million calls for help every year.” “Dispatchers play an essential role in saving lives and in helping me do my job safely. They are our eyes and ears before we arrive on scene. They receive advanced training to effectively assess a situation, ask the right questions, and communicate vital information so that we know what to expect when we get to the scene of an emergency,” said Lindsay Washington, an Emergency Medical Technician and local president of EMS Workers United/AFSCME District Council 20. “911 dispatchers deserve the benefits and respect a first responder classification affords.” “In my time at the Federal Communications Commission, I have had the privilege of visiting dozens of public safety answering points, including the one where Congresswoman Torres once worked as a 911 operator,” said Commissioner Rosenworcel. “911 operators are public safety heroes. They save lives every day. It’s time they are given the government classification they deserve. Kudos to Representatives Torres and Fitzpatrick for their efforts to make this happen.” Torres and Fitzpatrick were joined in introducing the bill by original co-sponsors Representatives Donna Shalala (FL-27), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Pete Stauber (MN-8), Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Susan Wild (PA-7). Torres is a member of the House Appropriations and Rules Committee. Prior to her time in Congress, she spent more than 17 years working as a 9-1-1 dispatcher. Torres is a member of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus and has introduced the Next Generation (NG) 9-1-1 Act of 2017 to strengthen federal efforts to help state and local governments to transition to NG9-1-1 technology by providing new federal funding, technical assistance, and training, while ensuring 911 is kept under state and local control. She has long led calls to ensure 9-1-1 professionals receive the recognition and respect they deserve for their lifesaving work. Congressman Fitzpatrick spent 14 years as an FBI Supervisory Special Agent fighting political corruption and supporting global counterterrorism efforts – including being embedded with U.S. Special Forces as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He is a Certified Public Accountant, Emergency Medical Technician, and served as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney focused on drug crimes. ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and James P. McGovern (D-MA) and U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) introduced the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act to authorize Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act sanctions against Guatemalan officials who have engaged in corruption, obstructed justice, misused U.S.-provided equipment, disobeyed Guatemalan Constitutional Court rulings, and interfered with the work of the U.S. government. In Guatemala, the actions of a government facing corruption investigations have placed the country’s stability and democracy in jeopardy and have undermined U.S.-supported efforts to address the root cause of migration. “Faced with allegations of corruption, Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales has allied with criminal and corrupt actors who are intent on thwarting justice at any cost. He’s ordered the removal of a U.S.-funded anti-corruption commission, decimated the leadership of the National Civilian Police, attacked the independence of the judiciary, and shamelessly used U.S. provided J8 Jeeps to intimidate U.S. diplomatic personnel,” said Representative Torres. “Congress must stand up for the Guatemalan people and their long struggle to build a stable, prosperous democracy. Unless we act now, Guatemala is at risk of descending into lawlessness—and we’ll see the consequences at our southern border.” “Guatemalan leaders—including President Jimmy Morales—ought to know that the international community is watching. We will not remain silent while they enrich themselves, undermine the rule of law, and go after human rights defenders,” said Representative McGovern. “The targeted sanctions included in this bill would make clear that the United States will not sit idly by while corrupt high-ranking government officials cheat the Guatemalan people of their prosperity and their future.” “This bill affirms our support for anti-corruption initiatives, justice, and accountability in Guatemala,” said Senator Cardin, author of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. “Corruption exacerbates the insecurity, governance, and economic challenges that drive so many Guatemalans to leave their homes. This act upholds U.S. commitment to the rule of law, while ensuring a more efficient, appropriate use of U.S. assistance addressing the root causes of migration.” “This bill is a direct response to flagrant actions by officials in Guatemala to subvert the rule of law,” said Senator Leahy. “Whether expelling the CICIG Commissioner, seeking to oust Constitutional Court magistrates, or threatening political candidates, corruption and abuse of power are driving this alarming, backward trend. This bill makes clear that public officials and their associates who engage in corrupt acts, and who work to undermine the independence of the judiciary, will pay a very real price.” Specifically, the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act would apply financial sanctions, including asset blocking and the denial of visas, to current or former corrupt Guatemalan officials. It would also ensure that the U.S. can claw back any security equipment that is misused by the government of Guatemala. Torres and McGovern were joined in introducing the bill by original co-sponsors Representatives Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Deb Haaland (D-NM), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), David Cicilline (D-RI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Andy Levin (D-MI), Jim Himes (D-CT), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Don Beyer (D-VA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), and Steve Cohen (D-TN). The Senate companion is co-sponsored by Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Chris Murphy (D-CT). The bill has been endorsed by the American Jewish World Service, the Guatemala Human Rights Commission, Freedom House, the Latin America Working Group, Oxfam America, and the Washington Office on Latin America. ###
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded a $386,934 Academic Research Enhancement Awards (AREA) grant to Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona. The funding will allow WesternU to further its lung disease research. “For more than four decades, WesternU has trained physicians to provide families throughout Southern California with the expert health care and attention they need,” said Torres. “In the Inland Empire, that focus is often on treating lung and respiratory diseases caused by the region’s poor air quality. Under Dr. Vishwanath Venketaraman’s leadership of the College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific, this investment will advance efforts to beat lung disease and give residents of the 35th district a fighting chance at leading healthy lives.” “This significant grant award by the Department of Health and Human Services for lung disease research at WesternU is a tremendous compliment to the University and to Dr. Vishwanath Venketaraman of the College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific, who is leading this effort,” said Daniel R. Wilson, MD, PhD, President of Western University of Health Sciences. “WesternU is deeply committed to biomedical research to enhance human health, and this grant award is recognition and appreciation of that commitment.” Torres is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for appropriating federal spending. ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded a $69,000 Federal Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Program grant to the City of Pomona Housing Authority. The FSS funding will enable HUD-assisted families in Pomona to increase their income and reduce their dependency on welfare assistance and rental subsidies. “Working families in Pomona deserve an equal opportunity to succeed, and that’s what this funding makes possible,” said Torres. “For the single mom supporting her children or the young family just starting out, this investment gives our families a helping hand to get ahead and establish a clear path to financial stability.” The FSS program provides eligible families access to resources and services such as child care, transportation, education, job training, employment counseling, financial literacy, and homeownership counseling to help them achieve their financial goals. Torres is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, which is responsible for appropriating federal spending, including for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the California Department of Transportation has been awarded a $35 million grant by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration for the repair or reconstruction of federal highways and roads that suffered damage during the heavy rainstorms in January and February. The funding will benefit 49 California counties, including Los Angeles County. “Last month’s severe rainstorms brought flooding and serious damage to our region’s roadways,” said Torres. “This funding will help repair and restore the safety of heavily-traveled Los Angeles County roads for commuters in the Inland Empire.” Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities, as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition. Torres is a member of the powerful House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, which is responsible for appropriating all federal spending, including the Department of Transportation. ###
02.13.2019	The 2011 wind storm brought gale force winds and widespread power outages across Southern California WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the California Department of Transportation has been awarded a $392,691 grant by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration to repair or reconstruct federal highways and roads that suffered damage following the destructive wind storm that struck Southern California in 2011. The funding will benefit 18 congressional districts across the region, including the 35th. “Southern California is no stranger to high winds, but the 2011 wind storm packed a powerful punch that downed numerous trees on our district’s roads,” said Torres. “Recovering from this sort of damage is costly for our communities because resources are drained from other critical projects. This funding will help rebuild our infrastructure and help ensure that we are equipped to respond to and withstand the next major weather event.” Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities, as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition. Torres is a member of the powerful House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, which is responsible for appropriating all federal spending, including the Department of Transportation. ###
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), James P. McGovern (D-MA), and Albio Sires (D-NJ) released the following statement in response to the proposal the Guatemalan Congress is expected to vote on this week, which would free military officials and guerilla leaders convicted of grave crimes against humanity including genocide, rape, and forced disappearance: “We are appalled by the Guatemalan Congress’ proposal to grant amnesty for war criminals. During the country’s long civil war, the Guatemalan people, especially the indigenous communities, endured unspeakable horrors. Entire villages were massacred, women were kidnapped and forced into sexual slavery, and thousands were disappeared and tortured. To amnesty those responsible for these crimes against humanity now would mean that more than thirty men convicted and currently imprisoned for the gravest of human rights abuses would be set free. It would threaten public safety in Guatemala, reopen old wounds, undermine accountability and rule of law, and set back the country’s transition to democracy. Unfortunately, this proposal is only the latest in a series of efforts by Guatemala’s political elite to reverse the cause of justice while ignoring the country’s obligations under international law. We stand firmly with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in rejecting this proposal. The United States must not turn a blind eye to the victims of these despicable acts and must stand firmly on the side of the Guatemalan people.” ###
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Prevent Crime and Terrorism Act to block the Trump Administration’s proposal to transfer firearm export regulation from the U.S. State Department to the U.S. Commerce Department. Experts have noted that the new regulations would weaken congressional oversight of firearms exports, and would allow licenses to be approved with less scrutiny. The legislation has been endorsed by Giffords, Amnesty International USA, Global Exchange, and the Violence Policy Center. “We should be doing everything we can to make sure guns don’t fall into the wrong hands,” said Torres. “Unfortunately, the Trump administration is doing just the opposite—making it easier for terrorists, drug cartels, and dictators to buy deadly weapons. If this dangerous proposal goes forward, we are going to see more instability in strategically important regions such as Central America. I’m proud to work with Chairman Engel to make sure that doesn’t happen.” “The Trump Administration’s proposal means it will be easier to export grenade launchers, flame throwers, and undetectable plastic guns overseas with almost no oversight or accountability,” said Chairman Engel. “We need proper congressional oversight, so we can step in and make sure these weapons aren’t sent to bad actors, including terrorists, drug cartels, human rights abusers or violent criminals. I commend Rep. Torres for her continuing leadership on this issue, and I look forward to working with her as the Foreign Affairs Committee examines this matter in the weeks and months ahead.” The Prevent Crime and Terrorism Act would prohibit the President from removing any items from the United States Munitions List, ensuring continued State Department oversight. Torres and Engel were joined in introducing the bill by original co-sponsors Representatives David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA), and Jim McGovern (D-MA). ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) announced that Joe Rodgers, a Federal Aviation Administration Engineer Technician at Ontario International Airport who was one of the 800,000 federal workers furloughed during the 35-day long government shutdown, has been invited as her guest to the State of the Union address. “For more than a month, federal workers like Joe Rodgers saw their lives turned upside down by an unnecessary and harmful shutdown. The last thing those entrusted with keeping our skies safe at the nation’s airports should ever have to worry about is how to put food on the table or keep the lights on. Despite missing two paychecks, Joe still showed up for his colleagues and offered them support as bills of his own piled up,” said Torres. “Joe’s dedication and service to others is a testament to the strength of our American civilian workforce. Here in Congress, I’m working to ensure that we are recognizing these workers’ value and never allow them to be used as bargaining chips again. I’m honored to have Joe as my guest to the State of the Union tonight.” “Being in Washington and attending the State of the Union is a once in a lifetime opportunity,” said Rodgers. “I am appreciative of the chance to be here and for the support we’ve received from Congresswoman Torres.” Joe is a member of the Professional Aviation Safety Specialists (PASS), AFL-CIO. He has worked at Ontario International Airport for 6 years. Following the shutdown, he and his colleagues have been diligently trying to get back on track as countless projects have fallen behind schedule. Joe is a longtime resident of Rialto, CA and a proud father and grandfather of 4. ###
02.04.2019	Legislation would encourage local and federal government collaboration to create more sustainable environmental, transportation, infrastructure, and housing programs WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) has introduced the Sustainable Communities Act of 2019 to support community development through U.S. Department of Transportation grants to provide more transportation options, develop more affordable housing, and improve the livability of communities. As more people are priced out of Los Angeles and move to the Inland Empire, Torres’ bill would support new growth that gives residents reliable transportation and housing options for living in the region. “As the Inland Empire grows, we need to make sure our local governments are forward-thinking and environmentally conscious in planning development for the future,” said Torres. “The Sustainable Communities Act will strengthen investment and encourage collaboration between local, public, and private groups to build communities that are meeting the housing and transportation needs of workers and families in our area.” The Sustainable Communities Act builds on the Obama Administration’s Sustainable Communities Initiative (SCI) through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). SCI provided Sustainable Communities Regional Planning Grants to locally-led initiatives and collaborations between public and private entities with funds to be used to work towards more sustainable environmental, transportation, infrastructure, and housing programs. HUD’s $250 million investment opened the door to hundreds of millions of dollars of public and private investment and engaged more than 3,300 partner groups across the country working to strengthen American cities, counties and regions. Specifically, the legislation would reauthorize this program for an additional five years, with an authorization of $150 million to invest in cities, counties, tribal organizations, universities, commissions, and associations. Torres is a member of the powerful House Appropriations and Rules Committees. Last Congress, two of Torres’ legislative proposals to increase funding for infrastructure and transit programs were unanimously approved by the House. The first provision provided $12 million for the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Demonstration Program, which she created as part of the 2015 FAST Act, to connect localities with private financing options, provide technical assistance, and encourage regional planning. The second provision directed $10 million to planning for Transit Oriented Development to help cities increase development with a focus on integrated planning. ###
02.01.2019	Rule change threatens an increase in the flow of firearms to terrorist groups and drug cartels, undermining U.S. national security WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement ahead of the Trump administration’s rule change to loosen the regulation of firearms exports. The rule change would shift control of the export licensing process for firearms away from the U.S. Department of State to the U.S. Department of Commerce, which has far looser licensing rules and procedures. “As the world’s largest firearms exporter, the United States ought to be focused on making sure that firearms don’t end up in the wrong hands. But with this rule, the Trump administration is doing the opposite, making it easier to sell military-type weapons and the means to make undetectable guns to foreign buyers. “With this rule in effect, control of firearms will be transferred from the State Department to the Commerce Department. Firearm sales would be approved with no congressional oversight. Foreign nationals would be eligible for Commerce export licenses, making it easier for military weapons to end up in the hands of dictators, terrorists, and narco-traffickers. Many regions of the world are experiencing instability, including in Central America, and we can’t afford to fan the flames there. The new rules would also allow for the proliferation of 3-D printed weapons, which would be a major blow to efforts to combat international gun trafficking. Even the rule’s supporters admit that the change would be significant: firearm exports could increase as much as twenty percent. “We need more oversight of firearms exports, not less. Next week, we will introduce legislation to push back against this change and protect America’s national security by helping to keep weapons from falling into the wrong hands.” Last Congress, Torres and Engel introduced the Prevent Crime and Terrorism Act to limit the Trump administration’s plans to deregulate firearm exports. ###
01.25.2019	ONTARIO, CA — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the three-week continuing resolution to reopen the government: “After 35 days of a crisis of the President’s own making, nothing has changed except hurting the pocketbook of millions of federal workers, contractors, and local businesses. While I am relieved that our federal workers, law enforcement officers, and servicemembers will finally receive their backpay and get back on the job, this is no way for our government to function. “Unfortunately, based on the President’s own statement, we could very well find ourselves staring down the precipice of yet another shutdown in just a few days. For weeks, I have joined my Democratic colleagues to vote 11 times to reopen the government. I will support this deal—however short-term it is—because it is our most fundamental duty as members of Congress to keep the government running. “President Trump and Republicans must now end their irrational political games, come to the table, roll up their sleeves, and get to work on a permanent solution to prevent this from ever happening again.” ###
01.25.2019	ONTARIO, CA — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that Ontario-Montclair School District (OMSD) and Rialto Unified School District (RUSD) have received the 2018 Western Region Summer Sunshine Awards from the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service. OMSD was recognized for its community partnerships with the City of Ontario and the Hope Through Housing Foundation to provide summer meals for children and their families. In 2018, OMSD served 2,000 more meals than in the previous year. RUSD was recognized for its innovative and impactful summer programming, which included a mini farmers market to promote food and nutrition education. “For children in the 35th district, the last day of school shouldn’t mean the last time they’ll eat a nutritious meal or have access to educational and recreational programs that fuel their development,” said Torres. “The efforts of the Ontario-Montclair School District and Rialto Unified School District to address food insecurity and create comprehensive programming during the summer months are an example for school districts across our nation. I congratulate them on this well-deserved recognition.” The Summer Sunshine Awards recognize the outstanding achievements of individuals and groups who, through the Summer Food Service Program and Seamless Summer Option, provide nutritious meals and programs to children and families during the summer months. Activities may include physical and nutrition education, summer learning, and/or wellness promotion to help encourage healthy eating, physical activity, and positive health-related learning habits. ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in response to the Metro Board of Directors vote to approve the Gold Line Foothill extension from La Verne to Pomona: “Today’s vote by the Metro Board of Directors to approve the Gold Line extension is a win for the Inland Empire. Not only will this allow people to go car-free and reduce traffic, it will also put us on a path towards environmental sustainability and improved air quality. In Congress, I have long been working to strengthen transportation options that will promote economic development and the quality of life for the entire region. As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, I will continue to support this project on the federal level and press for the Gold Line segment connecting Los Angeles County to Ontario Airport.” ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after being named Vice Chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, a coalition of members of the House of Representatives who are working to preserve, protect, and advance women’s constitutionally-protected reproductive rights: “The fight for reproductive rights has been transformative for American women. It has meant that gender would not and could not limit a woman’s opportunities in life. The ability to make choices about when to have a family has opened up the doors to pursue an education, begin a career, and earn a living. It has meant economic independence and freedom—freedom that is now being threatened by sustained Republican attacks. That’s what makes the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus and the leadership of Congresswomen Dianna DeGette and Barbara Lee so critical to ensuring that women are empowered to freely exercise their constitutionally-protected rights. I’m honored to serve as Vice Chair and take my place on the front lines alongside the new House Democratic majority to protect women’s hard-won reproductive rights.” Learn more about the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus here. ###
01.19.2019	ONTARIO, CA – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump’s speech: “If President Trump were serious about immigration reform, he would reopen the government and make an honest deal with Democrats. Three more years of uncertainty for Dreamers and those with Temporary Protected Status is a non-starter. “How does President Trump intend to get his 230 miles of wall built this year? It demonstrates a total disregard for the rights of property owners in border states. “We need clarity on how his proposed humanitarian aid would be used. There is a serious need for medical personnel and infrastructure to deal with the sick children and permanent shelter for the families seeking asylum at our borders. “Now as an appropriator, I plan to work with my colleagues to offer real solutions, including how to deal with this lack of personnel and resources on the border and to ensure no more children die due to neglect. “The President must come to the table with a compromise that will immediately reopen the government and get our federal employees back to work, and there needs to be bipartisan, thoughtful discussions to truly address the nation’s border security.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after being appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Subcommittees on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD); State Foreign Operations, and Related Programs (SFOPs); and Financial Services and General Government: “I am incredibly grateful for the opportunity to serve on these subcommittees, where I will be poised to be a champion for the Inland Empire. From securing funding for vital infrastructure projects in the 35th district to fighting drug trafficking, and conducting oversight of the Trump Administration, the Appropriations Committee will better allow me to address the most pressing challenges facing California and our nation.” The Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies has jurisdiction over the Department of Housing and Urban Development; the Department of Transportation; and Related Agencies (Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, Federal Maritime Commission, National Transportation Safety Board, Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority). The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs has jurisdiction over Diplomacy and Development (Department of State; United States Agency for International Development; Peace Corps; and Millennium Challenge Corporation); Export and Trade (Export-Import Bank; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Trade and Development Agency); Department of the Treasury (International Affairs Technical Assistance and International Financial Institutions); and Related Agencies and Programs (African Development Foundation; The Asia Foundation; Broadcasting Board of Governors; Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund; East-West Center; Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program; Inter-American Foundation; Israeli Arab Scholarship Program; National Endowment for Democracy; and United States Institute of Peace); Commissions (Border Environment Cooperation Commission; Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; Commission on International Religious Freedom; Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China; International Boundary Commission; International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico; International Fisheries Commissions; International Joint Commission; and United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission). The Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government has jurisdiction over the Department of the Treasury; the District of Columbia; The Judiciary; the Executive Office of the President (Compensation of the President, Council of Economic Advisers, Executive Residence at the White House, Federal Drug Control Programs, High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, National Security Council, Office of Administration, Office of Management and Budget, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Office of Policy Development, Official Residence of the Vice President, Special Assistance to the President, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, Unanticipated Needs, White House Office, White House Repair and Restoration); Independent Agencies (Administrative Conference of the United States; Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation; Consumer Product Safety Commission; Election Assistance Commission; Federal Communications Commission; Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of Inspector General; Federal Election Commission; Federal Labor Relations Authority; Federal Trade Commission; General Services Administration; Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation; Merit Systems Protection Board; Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation; National Archives and Records Administration; National Credit Union Administration; National Historical Publications and Records Commission; Office of Government Ethics; Office of Personnel Management and Related Trust Funds; Office of Special Counsel; Securities and Exchange Commission; Selective Service System; Small Business Administration; United States Postal Service, Payment to the Postal Service Fund, Postal Regulatory Commission and Office of Inspector General; and United States Tax Court); and General Provisions, Governmentwide. Established in 1865, the Appropriations Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions of any committee in Congress. It is responsible for appropriating funding for most of the functions of the federal government. In the 116th Congress, the Appropriations Committee has 12 subcommittees that each have jurisdiction over a specific part of the federal government. Learn more about the Appropriations Committee here. ###
01.17.2019	The Trump Administration has turned a blind eye as the Guatemalan government has moved to expel CICIG, a United States- and United Nations-backed anti-corruption organization, from the country In the letter, the lawmakers lay out a series of recommendations for the Trump Administration to prevent further destabilization in Central America WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Jim McGovern (D-MA) have led have a group of forty-five members of Congress in a letter urging President Trump to take strong actions in response to the Government of Guatemala’s violations of the rule of law in the country. Noting the strong U.S. action in response to democratic backsliding in Venezuela and Nicaragua, the lawmakers call for the application of Magnitsky Act sanctions and suspension of assistance to the central government of Guatemala. “During the past several months, the Government of Guatemala has taken a series of actions that have undermined the rule of law in that country. These actions risk progress made through the U.S. Strategy for Engagement in Central America, a multi-year U.S. investment in improving governance, security, and prosperity, funded with strong bipartisan support. We are deeply concerned that, absent a strong U.S. response, the current government’s pattern of anti-democratic behavior will continue to escalate, and that Guatemala will descend into lawlessness. We therefore implore you to take urgent action to uphold the rule of law in Guatemala and prevent further destabilization of the region,” the federal lawmakers wrote. In addition to Torres and McGovern, the letter was also signed by Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), David E. Price (D-NC), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA), Gerald E. Connolly (D-CA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Bill Keating (D-MA), Jim Himes (D-CT), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Peter Welch (D-VT), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), David Trone (D-MD), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Dina Titus (D-NV), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Jesús “Chuy” García (D-IL), Deb Haaland (D-NM), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Andy Levin (D-MI), Alma Adams (D-NC), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Debbie Mucarsel-Powell (D-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). The full text of the letter is below: Dear President Trump, During the past several months, the Government of Guatemala has taken a series of actions that have undermined the rule of law in that country. These actions risk progress made through the U.S. Strategy for Engagement in Central America, a multi-year U.S. investment in improving governance, security, and prosperity, funded with strong bipartisan support. We are deeply concerned that, absent a strong U.S. response, the current government’s pattern of anti-democratic behavior will continue to escalate, and that Guatemala will descend into lawlessness. We therefore implore you to take urgent action to uphold the rule of law in Guatemala and prevent further destabilization of the region. On August 31, 2018, Guatemala’s Minister of the Interior ordered U.S.-provided J8 jeeps with armed agents to patrol in front of the United States Embassy and the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG). That day, the President of Guatemala appeared at a press conference, flanked by military officials, to declare that Guatemala would end the mandate of CICIG, a highly successful body that combats corruption and organized criminal networks, and that has been strongly supported by the United States since its creation in 2007. After this blatant attempt to intimidate the United States and the international community, and even though our own equipment was turned against our diplomats, the administration’s only response was a tweet by Secretary Pompeo stating that, “Our relationship with Guatemala is important. We greatly appreciate Guatemala's efforts in counternarcotics and security.” The administration’s weak response to this provocation has emboldened the government and its allies, who are facing multiple corruption investigations from both CICIG and Guatemalan prosecutors. Since August 2018, the government has attempted to expel key CICIG investigators; purged high-level, U.S.-trained and vetted police officials; and taken steps to remove judges from the country’s highest court. On Saturday, January 5, 2019, the government flagrantly disobeyed a court ruling, detaining CICIG investigator Yilen Osorio at Guatemala City’s Aurora airport. And on January 7, the government announced that it was immediately terminating CICIG’s mandate, despite the fact that its creation was ratified by Guatemala’s national Congress. These actions threaten to disrupt the constitutional order in Guatemala, weakening both investor confidence and the capacity of the Guatemalan justice system to tackle organized crime, human smuggling, and drug trafficking, and putting at serious risk organizations, communities, and human rights defenders who have worked against impunity and corruption and in favor of the rule of law. We therefore implore you to immediately take the following actions: Publicly condemn the Guatemalan government’s blatant disregard for the rule of law and urge the government to change course; Suspend assistance for, and equipment transfers to, the central government of Guatemala. The suspended assistance should be redirected to non-governmental programs that directly benefit the Guatemalan people; Utilize the authority provided in the Global Magnitsky Human Rights and Corruption Accountability Act to hold corrupt Guatemalan government officials accountable through travel and financial sanctions; Strongly and publicly support human rights defenders and civil society organizations throughout the country in their exercise of fundamental rights. Your administration, with bipartisan support from Congress, has taken significant action in response to the deterioration of the rule of law in Nicaragua and Venezuela. For the sake of the Guatemalan people and U.S. interests, it is imperative that you apply the same standards to the United States’ relationship with Guatemala. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — La representante estadounidense Norma J. Torres (D-CA) emitió la siguiente declaración luego de ser nombrada por la líder Nancy Pelosi y confirmada por sus colegas del Caucus Demócrata para servir en el Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes, que es responsable de apropiar todos los gastos federales, nacionales y en el extranjero: “Será un honor servir en el Comité de Asignaciones, que asigna todos los recursos para el gobierno estadounidense, incluyendo la asistencia extranjera. En este nuevo Comité, tendré la posibilidad de atender a las importantes necesidades de mi distrito, y además influir en la política exterior de los Estados Unidos a través de la ayuda en materia de seguridad, el desarrollo económico y el Estado de Derecho. En algunos casos, como es el caso de Guatemala, puede ser necesario recortar el presupuesto de ayuda a los gobiernos, como consecuencia para los gobernantes que pisotean al Estado de Derecho y no respetan a la voluntad de su pueblo.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement after being appointed by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and confirmed by her colleagues of the Democratic Caucus to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for appropriating all federal spending, domestic and abroad: “It is an honor to be appointed to the House Appropriations Committee, where I will help ensure that the needs of families in the 35th district are represented and met by a federal government that is responsibly funded. “With total control of federal spending, a seat on this committee means that I can support strengthening the Inland Empire and fighting the wasteful spending we have seen by the Republican Congress. I know firsthand how important a balanced budget is. During my time in the State Assembly, I led efforts to bring California out of debt and into record surpluses. “It is one of my top priorities to bolster the 35th district’s growth by bringing much needed federal resources to expand the Gold Line, improve the modernization of Ontario Airport, promote affordable housing programs, and ensure that California gets its fair share of federal dollars for road improvements. “I look forward to working with the bipartisan members of the California delegation serving on the committee to bring home real results for our region.” Established in 1865, the Appropriations Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions of any committee in Congress. It is responsible for appropriating funding for most of the functions of the federal government. In the 116th Congress, the Appropriations Committee has 12 subcommittees that each have jurisdiction over a specific part of the federal government. Learn more about the Appropriations Committee here. ###
01.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on the Guatemalan government’s unilateral termination of the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) agreement: “CICIG’s abrupt departure would be a major setback for Guatemala’s fight against corruption. Complex cases involving organized crime, drug trafficking, and human smuggling would fall apart. Powerful criminals and the corrupt politicians would get away with serious crimes. Honest judges and prosecutors who relied on CICIG’s assistance and support would face growing political pressure to avoid high-profile cases. Unfortunately, Guatemala’s justice sector still lacks the resources, personnel, and political independence to operate effectively without international assistance. “Jimmy Morales’ presidency has set the country back years, if not decades. When he took office in 2016, Morales had a historic opportunity to give Guatemalans the transparent and effective government that they deserve. Instead, when faced with the prospect of criminal investigation by CICIG and the public ministry, he chose to destroy the rule of law in order to protect himself. He has engaged in a pattern of behavior that has undermined Guatemala’s justice system and brought the country to the brink of a constitutional crisis. Over the weekend, the government attempted to deny entry to a CICIG investigator, in open defiance of a ruling from Guatemala’s Constitutional Court. “Morales joined forces with Members of Guatemala’s Congress, many of whom are also under investigation. Guatemala’s Congress has passed legislation to allow violent criminals to get out of prison by paying fines, and it is currently trying to remove key magistrates from the Constitutional Court. “The Trump Administration also bears responsibility for this dark day. For many years, the United States supported CICIG and encouraged the fight against corruption on a bipartisan basis. But this administration has abandoned the Guatemalan people at the moment when they needed us most. “What happens next depends on Guatemalan society. The upcoming elections are an important opportunity to restore the rule of law by electing politicians who are honest, courageous, and committed to a bringing prosperity and security to all Guatemalans. “As a member of the United States House of Representatives, I will continue to support the Guatemalan people in their struggle for justice, and I will do everything in my power to ensure accountability for those corrupt government officials who have sold out their country. In one month, as a result of legislation I sponsored last year, the State Department must report to Congress about senior Central American politicians involved in corruption and drug trafficking. That report, which should be followed by sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, is needed now more than ever.” Torres is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Rules Committee. In December, she introduced the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act, which would require the U.S. President to impose sanctions on individuals who have undermined the rule of law in Guatemala. The sanctions would include asset blocking and the denial of visas. Last year, she introduced H.R. 5501, the End Corruption in the Northern Triangle Act. A portion of that bill requires the Secretary of State to send Congress a list of corrupt officials in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala; the list requirement was adopted as Section 1287 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, which President Trump signed into law on August 13, 2018. The bipartisan resolution she introduced with Rep. John R. Moolenaar (R-MI) to reaffirm the United States Congress’s commitment to fighting corruption in Central America was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives in 2017. The resolution states that efforts to fight corruption must remain at the center of U.S. policy in Central America, that the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) and CICIG are important contributions to these efforts, and that the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador should cooperate with MACCIH and CICIG and the Attorneys General of the region. ###
12.21.2018	The bill follows the recent deaths of 7-year-old Jakelin Caal, who died while in U.S. Customs and Border Protection custody, and toddler Mariee Juarez, who died shortly after being released from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the Border Security and Child Safety Act to require the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a review of all policies and procedures impacting the safety and health of children in U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) custody. The bill would also require the DHS Secretary to develop a strategy to implement policies that will ensure the safety of children in CBP and ICE custody, and to prioritize the hiring of medical personnel to provide prompt and adequate medical care to all children in DHS custody. “Jakelin Caal’s tragedy was not an isolated incident. From family separations, to the deaths of immigrant children in their care, to the turning away of asylum seekers at our border, there is a pattern of abuse and cruelty against immigrant families by this administration,” said Torres. “My bill would help break this pattern, and ensure that the proper policies and procedures are in place to safeguard the health and well-being of children in CBP and ICE custody.” The legislation is cosponsored by Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Juan Vargas (D-CA). Earlier this week, Torres and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus traveled to New Mexico to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of Jakelin Caal. Additionally, Torres and Representative Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) led a group of fifty-four members of Congress in a letter urging DHS to end the administration’s policy of deterring migrants from applying for asylum at U.S. ports of entry. The text of the bill may be viewed HERE. ###
12.20.2018	Today’s announcement that asylum seekers would be forced to wait in Mexico for the duration of their U.S. immigration proceedings raises additional concerns about the safety of migrants in Mexican border towns The letter follows the tragic death of seven-year-old Jakelin Caal in Customs and Border Protection custody and reports of two Honduran children who were killed in Tijuana as they waited to present their asylum claims WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Ted W. Lieu (D-CA) have led a group of fifty-four members of Congress in a letter urging U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to immediately end the policy of deterring migrants from applying for asylum at U.S. ports of entry. The letter comes after reports that two Honduran children were killed in Tijuana over the weekend, highlighting the dangers facing the growing numbers of Central Americans are stranded in Mexican border towns. The Department’s expanded practice of “metering” has limited the number of asylum seekers who can present their claims at ports of entry, in addition to transferring resources away from the asylum process. This manufactured crisis at the border may lead to even more unnecessary deaths in the weeks and months to come as asylum seekers attempt to cross between ports of entry. In the letter, the federal lawmakers also call on Customs and Border Protection to explain future plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. “Testimonies from asylum seekers and family unit apprehension statistics from 2018 strongly suggest that the bottleneck at ports of entry are leading to a growing number of asylum seekers attempting to cross between ports of entry. If this policy did not contribute to the death of Jakelin Caal, it will lead to other deaths of innocent children. Furthermore, metering puts our national security at risk by forcing Border Patrol to use limited resources to apprehend asylum seekers, rather than focusing on criminals or terrorists who represent a real security risk to the United States,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “To ensure compliance with U.S. law, prevent further deaths, and secure our borders, CBP must explain how it plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. If additional resources are required to comply with the law, CBP must come before Congress with a detailed request. Continuing with the status quo is simply unacceptable.” In addition to Torres and Lieu, the letter was also signed by Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-NY), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (D-GA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), John Garamendi (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), James P. McGovern (D-MA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Karen Bass (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), André Carson (D-IN), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Judy Chu (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Anthony G. Brown (D-MD), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Nielsen, We continue to mourn the death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquin, the seven-year old Guatemalan girl who died in Customs and Border Protection (CBP) custody. We are aware that the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General will investigate this horrific incident. However, this is not enough. We call on you to take immediate steps to end the policy of deterring migrants from applying for asylum at ports of entry, which is leading asylum seekers to attempt crossings in dangerous areas. This policy is likely illegal, and it is certainly irresponsible and dangerous. In an attempt to deter asylum seekers from presenting claims at the U.S.-Mexico border, the Department has begun to limit its capacity to process asylum requests at ports of entry. The Department has also expanded the use of a practice known as “metering,” wherein CBP officials only allow a certain number of asylum seekers to present claims each day. This practice thwarts the intent of multiple provisions of U.S. law. The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225 and 1158) clearly states that asylum seekers at ports of entry must be allowed to present claims. Furthermore, in 2017, after Non-Governmental Organizations documented a pattern of asylum seekers being turned away at ports of entry, Congress approved an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, explicitly prohibiting the use of funds in contravention of 8 U.S.C. 1225. The Department’s policy of intentional deterrence is likely a violation of both the Immigration and Nationality Act and the prohibition included in the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations bill. The policy of deterring asylum seekers is creating an unsustainable situation in Mexican border towns, where the number of asylum seekers awaiting entry is growing by the day. In many cases, asylum seekers are being forced to stay in emergency shelters, where conditions are unsanitary and or unsafe. In fact, it was the desperation caused by metering that led asylum seekers in San Ysidro to lead a protest at the U.S. port of entry, to which CBP responded by firing tear gas across the border. Testimonies from asylum seekers and family unit apprehension statistics from 2018 strongly suggest that the bottleneck at ports of entry are leading to a growing number of asylum seekers attempting to cross between ports of entry. If this policy did not contribute to the death of Jakelin Caal, it will lead to other deaths of innocent children. Furthermore, metering puts our national security at risk by forcing Border Patrol to use limited resources to apprehend asylum seekers, rather than focusing on criminals or terrorists who represent a real security risk to the United States. To ensure compliance with U.S. law, prevent further deaths, and secure our borders, CBP must explain how it plans to facilitate access to asylum at ports of entry. If additional resources are required to comply with the law, CBP must come before Congress with a detailed request. Continuing with the status quo is simply unacceptable. Sincerely, ###
12.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the U.S. State Department’s Strategy for Central America and Southern Mexico: “Today’s agreement with Mexico does not make sense. Is President Trump’s master plan to get Mexico to build the wall with U.S. taxpayer dollars? “We would see much better results if we focused on ensuring that the successor to the NAFTA agreement has strong and enforceable provisions to prevent labor abuses, increase wages, protect the environment, and address the infrastructure needs of both countries. These goals cannot be achieved through an immigration and development agreement. “Weak judicial systems and rampant public corruption in the Northern Triangle, combined with the growing power of Latin American drug cartels, are having a devastating impact on our southern border. Today’s announcement does not appear to include any actual new funding for the Northern Triangle. It is just a repackaging of current assistance. In any case, simply spending more American taxpayer money is not a realistic solution. We must demand more. “We need to combine effective foreign assistance with the right kinds of pressure, including tough conditions on spending and targeted sanctions on corrupt and criminal government officials. Sadly, the Trump Administration has failed to stand up for the rule of law in the region, abandoning longstanding U.S. support for civil society and successful initiatives such as the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG). That is why I have introduced the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act, which will apply financial and visa sanctions to government officials that undermine the rule of law. If the Trump administration will not advance real proposals for Central America, then Congress must.” Torres is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Rules Committee. On December 13, 2018, Rep. Torres introduced H.R. 7314, the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act. If enacted, the bill would require visa and travel sanctions against Guatemalan government officials who engage in corruption and undermine the rule of law. Examples of covered offenses are disobeying rulings of Guatemala’s highest court and interfering with the work of U.S.-supported institutions, including the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG). ###
12.14.2018	ONTARIO, CA — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquina, a 7-year-old girl who migrated with her father from Guatemala to the U.S. and died of dehydration and shock while in the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Torres, who was born in Guatemala, immigrated to the U.S. as a child, and is currently the only member of Congress of Central American descent. “I am appalled by the Trump administration’s response to the death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquina, a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl in Department of Homeland Security (DHS) custody. “Let’s be clear: when a U.S. government agency has a 7-year-old girl in its custody, that girl’s health and safety is the responsibility of that agency. But DHS has issued an official statement that tries to wash its hands of all culpability. That’s unacceptable: they must come clean with the facts. “I am even more disgusted that Secretary Kristjen Nielsen is already blaming this death on Jakelin and her father. She should know better than to blame the victim. Making the decision to migrate is not easy, and migrants know that the journey is risky. They are coming here because they have no other choice: their governments have failed to protect them from gangs or allow them the possibility of a decent life. If anyone besides DHS deserves blame for this tragedy, it is the corrupt governments in Central America that are more interested in lining their pockets than improving the lives of their people. “The DHS Inspector General must investigate and there must be accountability for Jakelin’s death. I am also calling on my colleagues to hold a hearing on this issue before the end of Congress. But that is not enough. These deaths must stop. DHS must focus on bringing about reforms to ensure humane and responsible treatment of every single man, woman, and child in their custody. If Secretary Nielsen cannot make those reforms happen, she should resign. And if the Trump administration is serious about the issues at our border, it must develop a real strategy to address the poverty, violence, and corruption that are forcing too many families to risk their lives trying to reach safety.” ###
12.13.2018	El proyecto de ley da seguimiento a la legislación de Torres requiriendo que el Departamento de Estado proporcione al Congreso una lista de funcionarios corruptos en el Triángulo del Norte, la cual se convirtió en ley en agosto del año corriente WASHINGTON, DC — Hoy, la representante estadounidense Norma J. Torres (D-CA) presentó el Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act para exigir que el presidente de los Estados Unidos imponga sanciones a las personas que han socavado el Estado de Derecho en Guatemala. Las sanciones incluirían el bloqueo de bienes y la denegación de visas. “Después de décadas de guerra civil, los guatemaltecos han luchado duro y han sacrificado mucho para establecer el Estado de Derecho. El progreso ha sido lento y, recientemente, ha sido amenazado por un pequeño grupo de personas, cuya única prioridad es protegerse de las consecuencias penales. Estos malos actores han desmantelado el liderazgo de la Policía Nacional Civil, desobedecieron los fallos de la corte constitucional, buscaron remover una comisión contra la corrupción financiada por los Estados Unidos e incluso utilizaron Jeeps proporcionados por los EE. UU. para intimidar a la Embajada de los EE. UU. y al personal de las Naciones Unidas. "Lamentablemente, la respuesta del gobierno de Trump a estas provocaciones ha sido poner la cabeza en la arena. Esto es un grave error. Fortalecer el Estado de Derecho es la clave para una Guatemala más próspera y segura, donde los jóvenes puedan ver un futuro por sí mismos. Permitir que el Estado de Derecho se desintegre es una receta para la inestabilidad y una creciente crisis humanitaria en nuestras fronteras. “Si el gobierno de Trump se niega a actuar, el Congreso debe hacerlo. Es por eso que he presentado el Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act. Este proyecto de ley impondrá sanciones financieras y de viaje a las personas que han socavado el sistema de justicia de Guatemala. También se asegurará de que cualquier equipo de uso militar que se transfiere a Guatemala en el futuro pueda ser reclamado por el gobierno de los Estados Unidos si se usa indebidamente. El Congreso debe garantizar que haya consecuencias para quienes han pisoteado el Estado de Derecho en Guatemala, y debemos apoyar a los guatemaltecos que están trabajando para construir un futuro más brillante para la próxima generación”. Torres es miembro de la Comisión de Asuntos Exteriores y del Comité de Reglas. A principios de este año, ella presentó H.R. 5501, el End Corruption in the Northern Triangle Act. Una parte de ese proyecto de ley requiere que el Secretario de Estado envíe al Congreso una lista de funcionarios corruptos en Honduras, El Salvador y Guatemala; el requisito de la lista fue adoptado como la Sección 1287 de la Ley de Autorización de Defensa Nacional para el año fiscal 2019, que el presidente Trump promulgó el 13 de agosto de 2018. El año pasado, la resolución bipartidista que Torres presentó con el Representante John R. Moolenaar (R-MI) para reafirmar el compromiso del Congreso de los Estados Unidos para combatir la corrupción en América Central fue aprobada por unanimidad por la Cámara de Representantes. La resolución establece que los esfuerzos para combatir la corrupción deben permanecer en el centro de la política de EE. UU en Centroamérica, que la Misión de Apoyo a la Lucha contra la Corrupción e Impunidad en Honduras (MACCIH) y la CICIG son contribuciones importantes a estos esfuerzos, y que los gobiernos de Honduras, Guatemala y El Salvador deberían cooperar con MACCIH, la CICIG y los procuradores generales de la región. ###
12.13.2018	The Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act builds on Torres legislation to require the State Department to provide Congress with a list of corrupt officials in the Northern Triangle that was signed into law in August WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act, to require the U.S. President to impose sanctions on individuals who have undermined the rule of law in Guatemala. The sanctions would include asset blocking and the denial of visas. “After decades of civil war, the Guatemalan people have fought hard and sacrificed a great deal to establish the rule of law. Progress has been slow, and, recently, it has been threatened by a small group of individuals, whose only priority is protecting themselves from prosecution. These bad actors have dismantled the leadership of the National Civilian Police, disobeyed the rulings of the constitutional court, sought to remove a U.S.-funded anti-corruption commission, and even used U.S.-provided Jeeps to intimidate U.S. Embassy and United Nations personnel. “Sadly, the Trump Administration’s response to these provocations has been to put its head in the sand. That is a grave mistake. Strengthening the rule of law is the key to a more prosperous and secure Guatemala, where young people can see a future for themselves. Allowing the rule of law to disintegrate is a recipe for instability and a growing humanitarian crisis at our borders. “If the Administration refuses to act, Congress must. That’s why I have introduced the Guatemala Rule of Law Accountability Act. This bill will impose financial and travel sanctions on individuals who have undermined Guatemala’s justice system. It will also ensure that any future defense equipment transferred to Guatemala can be reclaimed by the United States government if it is misused. Congress must ensure there are consequences for those who have trampled the rule of law in Guatemala, and we must support those Guatemalans who are working to build a brighter future for the next generation.” Torres is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Rules Committee. Earlier this year, she introduced H.R. 5501, the End Corruption in the Northern Triangle Act. A portion of that bill requires the Secretary of State to send Congress a list of corrupt officials in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala; the list requirement was adopted as Section 1287 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, which President Trump signed into law on August 13, 2018. Last year, the bipartisan resolution she introduced with Rep. John R. Moolenaar (R-MI) to reaffirm the United States Congress’s commitment to fighting corruption in Central America was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives. The resolution states that efforts to fight corruption must remain at the center of U.S. policy in Central America, that the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) and CICIG are important contributions to these efforts, and that the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador should cooperate with MACCIH and CICIG and the Attorneys General of the region. ###
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Juan Vargas (D-CA) have led a group of 19 members of Congress in a letter to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Acting Inspector General John Kelly to urge an investigation into the Custom and Border Protection (CBP) agents’ use of tear gas against migrants at the San Ysidro Border Crossing in California on November 25, 2018. In addition, the federal lawmakers express concerns that the action may have been in violation of CBP’s use of force policy and note its impact on Mexican citizens. “CBP agents at the San Ysidro Border Crossing responded to this situation by firing tear gas cannisters at the migrants, affecting an unknown number of men, women, and children, including many who did not engage in any violence. This was a severe response. Tear gas is a chemical weapon, whose use on the battlefield is almost universally banned, that causes watering eyes as well as a burning sensation in nasal passages and throats,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “Given the seriousness of this incident, we urge you to promptly investigate and determine whether CBP officers’ actions violated CBP’s Use of Force Policy.” The letter was also signed by Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), James P. McGovern (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Jim Costa (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Inspector General Kelly, We write regarding Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents’ November 25, 2018 use of tear gas against migrants at the San Ysidro Border Crossing. We are concerned that the decision to use tear gas may constitute a violation of CBP’s use of force policy, and sets a troubling precedent. As you may know, the incident occurred in the context of a largely peaceful protest by migrants in Tijuana, many of whom had been waiting days or weeks for an opportunity to lawfully present their asylum claims in the United States. During the protest, some activist individuals approached the United States border, despite efforts by Mexican law enforcement officers to prevent them from doing so. According to CBP’s November 26 statement, some of the individuals engaged in this protest threw rocks and other projectiles; four agents were hit, although none were seriously injured. CBP agents at the San Ysidro Border Crossing responded to this situation by firing tear gas cannisters at the migrants, affecting an unknown number of men, women, and children, including many who did not engage in any violence. This was a severe response. Tear gas is a chemical weapon, whose use on the battlefield is almost universally banned, that causes watering eyes as well as a burning sensation in nasal passages and throats. According to a November 26, 2018 statement from the American Academy of Pediatrics, “Children are uniquely vulnerable to physiological effects of chemical agents. A child's smaller size, more frequent number of breaths per minute and limited cardiovascular stress response compared to adults magnifies the harm of agents such as tear gas.” We also note that this event has international implications, since the tear gas crossed an international border and may have affected Mexican citizens. It is important to consider the impact on Mexico, just as we would expect Mexican authorities to consider the impact on the United States before taking similar actions on the Mexican side of the border. The Government of Mexico has also requested an investigation into this incident, and we hope that the Department of Homeland Security will comply with that request. Given the seriousness of this incident, we urge you to promptly investigate and determine whether CBP officers’ actions violated CBP’s Use of Force Policy. To ensure a proper accounting, we also ask that your investigation include an assessment of the area impacted by the tear gas, since conditions were reportedly windy on the day of the incident. Thank you in advance for your attention to this important request. Sincerely, ###
12.06.2018	ONTARIO, CA — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded a $2,021,713 grant to the Pomona Community Health Center dba Parktree Community Health Center, a community-based organization that delivers affordable, accessible, and quality health services to low-income patients. The grant will support an increase in comprehensive primary and preventative care, such as medical, dental, and behavioral health services, for communities in the City of Pomona. This year, the Center has provided care for more than 9,800 individuals, including more than 3,600 children. The majority of Pomona Community Health Center’s patients are covered by Medi-Cal. “For more than two decades, Pomona Community Health Center has provided comprehensive patient-focused care for thousands of underserved patients in Pomona,” said Torres. “As healthcare costs rise, one of my top priorities in the new Congress will be to increase access to affordable care for communities across the district. This new funding will help ensure that we can continue to deliver these essential services to build healthy families in Pomona.” Torres has cosponsored H.R. 5942, the Health Equity and Accountability Act of 2018, which would address disparities in healthcare in low-income communities by improving access to quality, affordable medical services. ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the announcement by General Motors that it was closing five factories in North America and laying off nearly 15,000 workers: “The announcement by General Motors that it will be closing factories in Ohio, Michigan, and Maryland and laying off 15,000 employees is evidence of President Trump’s latest failure to deliver for American workers. His empty promises have been followed by two years of damaging policies that threaten the livelihoods of American companies and workers. Instead of working with GM to save these jobs, President Trump rewarded corporations and the wealthy with tax breaks that lined their pockets while hardworking families continued to be squeezed by basic living expenses. Now, thousands of workers will be left unemployed. I urge my colleagues to come together and act immediately to help these workers.” ###
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) announced that the U.S. Senate passed a provision based on her Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act as part of the five-year reauthorization for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The legislation is expected to be signed into law by the President this week. Torres introduced the provision following the June 2017 NotPetya worldwide cyberattack that shut down the largest terminal at the Port of Los Angeles. In Southern California, trade and logistics generate more than $200 billion in economic impact each year. “Last year’s cyberattack was a wake-up call for California and the nation to shore up our maritime security and infrastructure. The closure of the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach was costly for our local economy and hurt our ability to import and export goods throughout the region,” said Torres. “When our ports are attacked, every businesses feels it—and even more so in the Inland Empire, where the logistics industry has created 23 percent of all new jobs since the Great Recession. Passing my provision into law won’t only protect our national security, it will also protect jobs in our community.” Torres’ provision will improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports. Specifically, it requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish guidelines for reporting cybersecurity risks, to develop and implement a maritime cyber security risk model, and to make recommendations on enhancing the sharing of cyber information. It also requires the Commandant of the Coast Guard to direct Area Maritime Security Committees to ensure area maritime security and facility security plans address cybersecurity risks. The legislation is supported by the Port of Los Angeles, Congressional PORTS Caucus Chairs, and it is endorsed by the Maritime & Port Information Sharing & Analysis Organization. Last August, Torres convened a cybersecurity seminar with local leaders and federal officials from the Department of Homeland Security, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and private sector professionals to discuss the latest cyber threats and how to prepare for them. She also participated in a bipartisan Homeland Security Committee field hearing at the Port of Los Angeles titled “Examining Physical Security and Cybersecurity at our Nation’s Ports.” ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) encouraged President J. Trump to expand the Protection Transfer Agreement (PTA). Through coordination with the United Nations High Commissioner on Human Rights, the International Organization on Migration, and the government of Costa Rica, the PTA offers a small number of Central Americans who are fleeing violence with an orderly and legal process to seek protection. While the majority of refugees are settled in the United States, Australia, Uruguay, and Canada have also resettled PTA individuals. “This program has provided life-saving protection to a small number of families and individuals who have suffered persecution by their governments, or whose governments failed to protect them from persecution,” the lawmakers wrote. “We encourage you to commit to resettling a greater number of those families and individuals from the PTA who qualify for refugee status, and to expand the capacity of the PTA to temporarily shelter refugees. Likewise, we urge you to assess the feasibility of expanding in-country refugee processing of PTA individuals referred for refugee protection, which would facilitate the ability of families and individuals to legally and safely resettle in the United States.” The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump, We write regarding the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Central America, which continues to compel unaccompanied children and families to flee their communities in search of safety. As you know, we have strongly objected to your harsh and punitive response to this crisis, especially the separation of children from their parents. We strongly urge you to abandon this misguided and cruel border policy, and instead seek creative solutions to facilitate an orderly and legal process for children and families who are fleeing violence to seek asylum. In particular, we encourage you to allow more vulnerable Central Americans to seek protection in a legal and orderly manner, by expanding the Protection Transfer Agreement (PTA), under which the United States, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and the government of Costa Rica have agreed to transfer small numbers of vulnerable individuals to Costa Rica while their claims for refugee status are adjudicated, and to resettle those who qualify for refugee status to the United States or other countries in the region. This program has provided life-saving protection to a small number of families and individuals who have suffered persecution by their governments, or whose governments failed to protect from persecution. We encourage you to commit to resetting a greater number of those families and individuals from the PTA who are found to qualify for refugee status. We also encourage you to expand the capacity of the PTA to temporarily shelter refugees, either by revisiting the terms of the agreement with Costa Rica, or by creating similar agreements with other governments in the region. Likewise, we urge you to assess the feasibility of expanding in-country refugee processing of individuals referred for refugee protection who are selected for the PTA, so that more families and individuals are able to legally and safely resettle in the United States. In the long-term, we are convinced that the best solution for both the United States and Central America is rein the shocking levels of violence that are destabilizing the region. We are firm supporters of the U.S. Strategy for Engagement in Central America. But we also recognize that Central America’s challenges will not be solved overnight; in the short term, the expansion of the PTA will relieve pressure at the U.S. border and reduce human suffering, providing those in need of immediate protection to a safe and orderly alternative to making the dangerous and difficult journey across Mexico. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important request. Sincerely, ###
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Hoy, la representante estadounidense Norma J. Torres (D-CA) emitió la siguiente declaración sobre la decisión del Presidente Jimmy Morales de no renovar el mandato de la Comisión Internacional contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG): “Estoy consternada por la decisión del presidente Morales de no renovar el mandato de la Comisión Internacional contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG) o la visa de su comisionado, Iván Velásquez. Con esta decisión, el presidente Morales ha abandonado por completo su promesa de campaña de un gobierno más transparente. “Pido al pueblo guatemalteco que se ponga de pie para que se escuche su voz, y que no permita que el presidente Morales retrase el importante progreso que se ha logrado. El pueblo guatemalteco merece un gobierno que responda a sus demandas. Por mi parte, prometo hacer todo lo que esté a mi alcance para garantizar que el presidente Morales y su gobierno rindan cuentas. “Permítanme ser clara: este es un gran paso atrás para Guatemala. Todos sabemos que la CICIG existe porque el pueblo guatemalteco y el estado guatemalteco reconocieron la necesidad de asistencia externa para fortalecer el estado de derecho y desmantelar a los grupos delictivos organizados que estaban socavando el progreso en el país. Desde su creación hace más de una década, la CICIG ha jugado un papel fundamental en mejorar la justicia y la seguridad en Guatemala, e Iván Velásquez ha sido extremadamente eficaz en su papel como Comisionado de la CICIG. Como resultado, la CICIG no solo se ha convertido en una de las instituciones más respetadas y confiables en Guatemala, sino que también ha aumentado la confianza de los ciudadanos en el sistema de justicia en general. “El presidente Morales está equivocado si piensa que puede darle la espalda a la lucha contra la corrupción y seguir siendo amigo de los Estados Unidos. Nuestra máxima prioridad en América Central es abordar las causas fundamentales de la migración: la pobreza y la violencia. Simplemente no es posible alcanzar ese objetivo sin luchar contra la corrupción”. Torres es miembro del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores y del Comité de Reglas. El año pasado, la resolución bipartidista que presentó con el Representante John R. Moolenaar (R-MI) para reafirmar el compromiso del Congreso de los Estados Unidos para combatir la corrupción en América Central fue aprobada por unanimidad por la Cámara de Representantes. La resolución establece que los esfuerzos para combatir la corrupción deben permanecer en el centro de la política de EE. UU. en Centroamérica, que la Misión de Apoyo a la Lucha Contra la Corrupción y la Impunidad en Honduras (MACCIH) y la CICIG son contribuciones importantes a estos esfuerzos, y que los gobiernos de Honduras, Guatemala y El Salvador deberían cooperar con MACCIH, la CICIG y los procuradores generales de la región. ###
08.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) issued the following comments after President Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law. The NDAA included a provision that will require the Secretary of State to provide Congress with a list of individuals, including government officials, who have committed serious acts of corruption, drug trafficking, and illicit campaign finance in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. Torres originally introduced this provision as an amendment to the House version of the NDAA; Cardin introduced an identical amendment in the Senate. “Our provision sends a clear message that the United States is serious about the fight against corruption in Central America. We must do everything in our power to help ensure accountability,” said Representative Torres. “We must be willing to name names, and that’s what this legislation does. The Secretary of State now has 180 days to provide Congress with a list of names. It’s time to get to work.” “Human rights abuses and entrenched corruption in Central America have a direct impact on the national security of the United States, and the U.S. government should use all the tools at its disposal to name and shame, denying abusers and corrupt officials access to the U.S. and our financial institutions,” said Senator Cardin. “I’m pleased this provision is now law and I thank Congresswoman Torres and our colleagues for their efforts.” The individuals named in the list required by the legislation could be subject to asset freezing and visa denial, under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. Torres is the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus and a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. In 2017, her resolution in support of the fight against corruption in Central America was approved by the House of Representatives. Cardin, a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee’s ranking member, is the co-author of both the 2016 Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act and the 2012 Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act. ###
08.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Hoy, la representante estadounidense Norma J. Torres (D-CA) y el senador estadounidense Ben Cardin (D-MD) emitieron los siguientes comentarios, siguiente al que el presidente Trump firmara la Ley de Autorización de Defensa Nacional (NDAA, por sus siglas en ingles). El NDAA incluye una disposición que requerirá que el Secretario de Estado proporcione al Congreso una lista de personas, incluyendo los funcionarios públicos, que han cometido actos graves de corrupción, tráfico de drogas y financiamiento ilícito de campañas en Guatemala, Honduras y El Salvador. Originalmente, Torres presentó esta propuesta como una enmienda a la versión de NDAA que se aprobó en la Cámara de Representantes, mientras Cardin presentó una enmienda idéntica en el Senado. "Nuestra legislación envía un mensaje claro de que los Estados Unidos habla en serio sobre la lucha contra la corrupción en América Central. Debemos hacer todo lo que esté a nuestro alcance para ayudar a garantizar la rendición de cuentas ", dijo la representante Torres. "Debemos estar dispuestos a nombrar nombres, y eso es lo que hace esta legislación. El Secretario de Estado ahora tiene 180 días para proporcionar al Congreso una lista de nombres. Es hora de ponernos a trabajar ". "Los abusos contra los derechos humanos y la corrupción que se ha arraigado en Centroamérica tienen un impacto directo en la seguridad nacional de los Estados Unidos, y el gobierno de los EE.UU. debe usar todas las herramientas a su alcance para nombrar y avergonzar, y negar el acceso de los abusadores y funcionarios corruptos a los EE.UU. y a nuestras instituciones financieras ", dijo el senador Cardin. "Me complace que esta disposición sea ahora ley y le agradezco a la congresista Torres y a nuestros colegas por sus esfuerzos". Las personas nombradas en la lista requerida por la legislación podrían estar sujetas a la congelación de activos y la denegación de visas, en virtud de la Ley de Responsabilidad Global de Derechos Humanos de Magnitsky. Torres es la fundadora y copresidenta del Caucus de América Central y miembro del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara de Representantes. En 2017, la Cámara de Representantes aprobó H.Res 145, su resolución en apoyo de la lucha contra la corrupción en América Central. Cardin, miembro sénior del Comité de Relaciones Exteriores del Senado y el Demócrata de más alto rango en el Subcomité del Hemisferio Occidental, es coautor tanto de la Ley Global Magnitsky de Responsabilidad de los Derechos Humanos 2016 como de la Ley de Responsabilidad del Estado de Derecho de Sergei Magnitsky de 2012. ###
08.02.2018	ONTARIO, CA – U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and John Rutherford (R-FL) have introduced H.Res.1040, a bipartisan resolution recognizing Tuesday, August 7, 2018 as National Night Out. National Night Out is an annual, nationwide event that promotes neighborhood camaraderie and community-police partnerships. “Every year, National Night Out offers neighbors and law enforcement an opportunity to come together and foster trust and a greater sense of community,” said Torres. “We all have a duty to stay engaged and look out for one another. As a former member of my neighborhood watch, I’ve seen firsthand how National Night Out promotes cooperation between residents and the police, and in turn, builds stronger, safer communities.” “For the last 35 years, National Night Out has successfully helped build a sense of trust between our local law enforcement agencies and the communities they serve,” said Rutherford. “As a career law enforcement officer myself, I know just how important this is to keeping our neighborhoods safe. When I was sheriff for more than a decade in my hometown of Jacksonville, Florida, I made engaging the community a top priority for my officers. When our neighbors and our law enforcement officers build personal, trusting relationships, it creates strong, safe communities for everyone. I’m proud to support the mission of National Night Out and thank those who work to make it happen each and every year.” During National Night Out, neighborhoods across the country join their local law enforcement agencies to host block parties, festivals, cookouts, and other community events along with demonstrations by emergency personnel, seminars, and exhibits. In addition to getting to know their local law enforcement officers and taking part in their own neighborhood watch groups, constituents are encouraged to consider the following helpful tips to help prevent crime and promote safer neighborhoods: Lighting is one of the most important crime deterrents. Consider installing lights on a timer to give would-be thieves the impression that people are home. Follow your instincts. If you think someone is following you, switch directions or cross the street. If the person continues to follow you, move quickly toward an open store, restaurant, lit house, or more populated area. Make sure your family, especially children, know when and how to dial 9-1-1. Help your child memorize their own address and phone number. Look up your local police and emergency services departments and keep important phone numbers in an easily accessible location. Only use 9-1-1 is cases of emergency. Direct non-emergency calls to 3-1-1 or the appropriate non-emergency number in your community to help keep 9-1-1 lines open for true emergencies and life-threatening situations. Prior to serving in Congress, Torres spent more than 17 years working as a 9-1-1 dispatcher and Rutherford spent 41 years in law enforcement, 12 of which he served as Sheriff of Duval County, Florida. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the Maria Butina NRA Transparency Act to require the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to investigate whether the National Rifle Association (NRA) benefitted from Russia’s involvement in the 2016 United States presidential election. The bill follows the recent indictment of Maria Butina, a Russian national with a long record of gun rights activism and ties to the NRA, for conspiracy to act as an agent of Russia. “The case of Maria Butina has raised a lot of questions about the depths that Russia was willing to go to infiltrate our democracy,” said Torres. “My bill would provide us with a more complete picture to track where foreign money went in the 2016 presidential election and hold the NRA accountable for transparency.” Torres was joined in introducing the legislation by Representatives James P. McGovern (D-MA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Hank Johnson (D-GA), and Grace Meng (D-NY). Under the Maria Butina NRA Transparency Act, the DNI, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, would have no more than 180 days after the enactment of the legislation to produce a national intelligence estimate of the total amount of the funds provided to the NRA by the Russian Federation, including funds provided through intermediaries, for the purpose of influencing the 2016 presidential election in the U.S. Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. ###
07.24.2018	With the 2018 hurricane and wildfire season underway, the Homeowners Disaster Preparation Act would provide homeowners with loans to better plan for floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, and landslides WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced the bipartisan Homeowners Disaster Preparation Act, to help homeowners prepare for and mitigate the devastating effects of natural disasters. An estimated sixty-seven percent of Disaster Relief Funds go towards repairing houses post-natural disasters. The bill would allow the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide homeowners with loans up to $10,000 for pre-disaster projects in areas the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) deems at risk for earthquakes, flooding, landslides, or tornadoes. “In California, we’re no strangers to natural disasters or the high price tag of rebuilding. Last year’s historic devastating wildfires and landslides destroyed more than 8,400 homes and businesses. Homeowners should be equipped with the proper resources to prepare for the worst and lessen the large financial burden they’re left to shoulder,” said Torres. “Our bipartisan bill will not only allow families to make critical modifications to fortify their homes, but will also strengthen the safety and resiliency of our communities.” “Last year, Hurricane Harvey destroyed thousands of businesses and homes across Texas’ Second Congressional District. In the aftermath of one of the costliest natural disasters in history, Congress finally got the message: we must not only meet short-term needs but address the long term- what is needed to mitigate our continual flooding problems, ensure processes are transparent, and agencies are accountable," said Rep. Poe. “The Homeowners Disaster Preparation Act helps Americans do just that. This bill gives homeowners in disaster-prone areas access to up to $10,000 in loans from the Small Business Administration for disaster mitigation projects. Texans are resilient, but it’s up to us to provide our constituents with the necessary tools to be prepared when disaster strikes, not just left picking up the pieces.” Loans made available under the Homeowners Disaster Preparation Act will help homeowners prepare for disaster through modifications such as building a retaining wall, a dyke wall, a foundation anchor, or a rain garden. Additionally, this bill makes the same loans available to individuals with severe medical conditions that would benefit from retrofitting their homes to include items like backup power generators. Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force, and a co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition 21st Century Infrastructure Task Force. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, announced that her bipartisan legislative proposal to prevent the advancement of North Korea’s nuclear weapons program by more accurately determining the regime’s revenue sources passed on the House floor. The proposal, modeled after Torres’s H.R. 6237 North Korea Follow the Money Act, passed as part of the Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for 2018 and now moves to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. “I support the idea of talks with North Korea on nuclear weapons, but any deal needs to be carefully constructed,” said Torres. “Before we lift any sanctions on North Korea, we need a clear idea of where this regime gets its money and where the pressure points are. Otherwise, we might give away the store without realizing it.” Torres was joined by Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO) in introducing the legislative proposal. It would require the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to produce a national intelligence estimate of North Korean revenue sources. The estimate would include information regarding North Korean funding sources, financial and non-financial networks through which North Korea accesses U.S. and international financial systems, and global financial institutions that assist North Korea with financial transactions. Torres is a member of the powerful House Rules Committee. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35) released the following statement on San Bernardino County Deputy District Attorney Michael Selyem’s discriminatory social media posts: “San Bernardino County Deputy District Attorney Michael Selyem’s social media posts about minorities are deeply offensive to me and my constituents. These comments have led many of us to question whether racial prejudice may have influenced his judgment as a prosecutor. San Bernardino County’s diverse community depends on a criminal justice system that is free from discrimination—and that requires a prosecutor who is committed to protecting all Americans, regardless of their race. I urge the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office to conduct a complete review of Deputy District Attorney Selyem’s cases as part of its administrative investigation.” ###
06.29.2018	POMONA, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in response to the fatal attack of a California State Polytechnic University civilian parking enforcement officer: "As the situation continues to unfold, my heart goes out to the fallen parking enforcement officer and his family. I thank all first responders for responding quickly to the scene and for preventing this altercation from resulting in further loss of life. I especially commend the University for their swift, coordinated response to inform and protect all students currently on campus." ### CONTACT: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov (774) 242-8425
06.14.2018	La resolución expresa solidaridad con el pueblo Guatemalteco y simpatía hacia las víctimas y sus familias; también pide asistencia continua para los esfuerzos de socorro y reconstrucción WASHINGTON, DC – Hoy, los representantes Norma J. Torres (D-CA) y Chris Smith (R-NJ), miembros del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores, presentaron una resolución bipartidista expresando solidaridad y apoyo al pueblo Guatemalteco, después de la erupción del Volcán de Fuego a principios de este mes. La resolución también reconoce los esfuerzos de los primeros responderos y de los ciudadanos voluntarios, y las donaciones hechas por ciudadanos estadounidenses, compañías y obras de caridad para los esfuerzos de socorro y reconstrucción. Además, insta a la Agencia de los Estados Unidos para el Desarrollo Internacional (USAID) y otras agencias relevantes de los EE. UU. que continúen brindando asistencia de socorro y reconstrucción. “A raíz de la devastación que dejó el Volcán de Fuego, es fundamental que la gente de Guatemala sepa que nos unimos a ellos en sus esfuerzos por reconstruir y recuperarse de esta tragedia”, dijo Torres. “Me conmueven los muchos guatemaltecos y estadounidenses que han brindado generosamente su tiempo y recursos para el esfuerzo de recuperación, pero debemos hacer más. Este es un momento que exige solidaridad, unidad y, sobre todo, acción”. “Quiero expresar mis sinceras condolencias a aquellos en Guatemala que perdieron seres queridos en la erupción volcánica mortal”, dijo Smith. “Aplaudo el esfuerzo heroico de los primeros responderos y los voluntarios que rescatan a sus conciudadanos en peligro. Los Estados Unidos respaldan al pueblo Guatemalteco y su gobierno”. Torres, quien nació en Guatemala, es miembro del Comité de Reglas, y es la fundadora y copresidenta del Caucus de Asuntos Latinoamericanos. Smith es presidente del subcomité de derechos humanos del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores, y miembro del subcomité del Hemisferio Occidental. ###
06.14.2018	The resolution expresses solidarity with the people of Guatemala and sympathy for the victims and their families, calls for continued assistance for relief and reconstruction efforts WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Chris Smith (R-NJ), members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced a bipartisan resolution expressing solidarity and support for the people of Guatemala after the eruption of the Fuego Volcano earlier this month. The resolution also recognizes the efforts of first responders and citizen volunteers, and the donations made by U.S. citizens, companies, and charities to relief and reconstruction efforts. Additionally, it urges the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other relevant U.S. agencies to continue to provide relief and reconstruction assistance. “In the wake of the devastation left by the Fuego Volcano, it is critical that the people of Guatemala know that we stand with them in their efforts to rebuild and recover from this tragedy,” said Torres. “I am moved by the many Guatemalans and Americans who have generously given their time and resources to the recovery effort, but we must do more. This is a time that calls for solidarity, unity, and, most of all, action.” “I want to express my sincere condolences to those in Guatemala who lost loved ones in the deadly volcanic eruption,” said Smith. “I applaud the heroic effort of first responders and volunteers rescuing their fellow citizens in danger. The United States stands by the people of Guatemala and their government.” Torres, who was born in Guatemala, is a member of the Rules Committee and the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus. Smith is Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs human rights subcommittee, and a member of the Western Hemisphere subcommittee. ###
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), member of the powerful Rules Committee, announced passage of a legislative proposal she introduced to assist local airports, like Ontario International Airport, remove unused military facilities. Ontario International Airport shared space with the Ontario Air National Guard Station, which remained in operation for decades to provide training and support for the Korean, Vietnam, and other wars and conflicts. In 1997, the facility closed and the site sat unchanged for twenty years. Last month, Torres viewed the National Guard barracks and airplane hangar and met with airport officials to discuss how to improve the vacant military facilities. “When military bases are closed it can be devastating to local communities. My recent tour of Ontario International Airport illustrated the economic, environmental, and health risks of continuing to allow these vacant facilities full of lead-based paint and asbestos to sit vacant,” said Torres. “As the Los Angeles region expands, every piece of used land will be needed for the airport to keep pace with need. With the passage of my legislative proposal, we’re moving one step closer to helping our local airports grow and thrive.” Torres’s legislative proposal would allow airports to use funds from the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) account to remove military facilities. The proposal passed as part of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force and represents California’s 35th congressional district, which includes Ontario International Airport. One of her first accomplishments upon being elected to Congress was returning the airport to local control—which has already resulted in more flights and options for the residents of the Inland Empire. In April, two of Torres’s legislative proposals to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018 passed on the House floor. The first amendment would create an Environmental Mitigation Pilot Program to allow the Department of Defense to provide additional funding for airport improvements at vacant facilities, including those located in Ontario. The second amendment would add economic impacts to the study on the effects of airport noise on communities near busy airports. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) led thirty-nine members of Congress in a letter calling on the Subcommittee on Homeland Security of the House Committee on Appropriations not to utilize taxpayer funds in the FY 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to deport individuals eligible for the Deferred Action for Child Arrivals (DACA) program. “We are committed to continuing to work through the legislative process to find a solution that protects DREAMers and allows them to contribute to our nation through work and study, free from the fear that comes from the prospect of deportation to countries that many DREAMers barely know,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “As these negotiations continue, and as the various legal challenges to DACA nullification proceed, we respectfully urge you to ensure, through the inclusion of reasonable limitations on Immigration and Customs Enforcement funding in the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, that taxpayer funds are not utilized to deport DREAMers.” Last year, Torres and O’Rourke introduced the Dreamer Protection Act, which would prevent the administration from spending taxpayer dollars to apprehend, detain, or deport DREAMers who lose their status as the result of potential changes to the DACA program by the President or other officials. In addition to Torres and O’Rourke, the letter was signed by Reps. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), John A. Yarmuth (D-KY), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), John Lewis (D-GA), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Filemon Vela (D-TX), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Darren Soto (D-FL), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Jim Costa (D-CA), Diana DeGette (D-CO), André Carson (D-IN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Peter Welch (D-VT), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Dina Titus (D-NV), and Gene Green (D-TX). Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. She is a is a cosponsor of H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill that would provide a path to citizenship for young immigrants who were brought here as children. She has also signed onto H.Res 774, a “discharge petition,” which would provide for consideration of four different DACA fixes. If a majority of Representatives sign the discharge petition, the bill receiving the greatest number of votes would be considered as adopted by the House of Representatives. You can view the final letter HERE The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Chairman Yoder and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard, As you continue work on the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we write to urge you to ensure that appropriated funds are not utilized to deport those individuals who are eligible to participate in the Deferred Action for Child Arrivals (DACA) program. Since its creation in 2012, the DACA program has provided protection from deportation to hundreds of thousands of young people who were brought here as children, and who seek to contribute to their adopted country through work and study. Furthermore, the DACA program gave hope to many more DREAMers who were eligible for the program and intended to apply. However, as you know, in September 2017, the Trump administration nullified the DACA program, placing in jeopardy the future of those young people who had already received protection through DACA, and crushing the dreams of those who were eligible for the program’s benefits, but had not yet applied. In the past several months, judges in California, New York, and Maryland have issued rulings regarding the administration’s decision to end DACA. Those rulings have obliged the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to process renewal applications of current and former DACA participants, and to refrain from sharing identifying information of DACA beneficiaries. Additionally, a judge in the District of Columbia has ruled that DACA would be fully reinstated unless the Trump Administration adequately justifies the DACA nullification within 90 days of his ruling, which was handed down on April 24, 2018. At the same time, Members of Congress in both chambers have been working on a bipartisan basis to find a legislative path forward for DREAMers. In particular, Representatives Jeff Denham, Will Hurd, and Carlos Curbelo have sought support for a “Queen of the Hill” rule to identify the DACA fix with the broadest support among House members. If adopted, H.Res. 774 would provide for consideration of four different DACA fixes, including one Democratic-sponsored bill and three Republican-sponsored bills; the bill receiving the greatest number of votes would be considered as adopted by the House of Representatives. We are committed to continuing to work through the legislative process to find a solution that protects DREAMers and allows them to contribute to our nation through work and study, free from the fear that comes from the prospect of deportation to countries that many DREAMers barely know. As these negotiations continue, and as the various legal challenges to DACA nullification proceed, we respectfully urge you to ensure, through the inclusion of reasonable limitations on Immigration and Customs Enforcement funding in the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, that taxpayer funds are not utilized to deport DREAMers. Thank you for considering this request, and for all of your work on the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Sincerely, ### CONTACT: Veronica Bonilla/Edgar D. Rodríguez (Torres), (202) 225-6161 Rob Friedlander (O’Rourke), (202) 225-4831
05.31.2018	Following the May 23 killing of twenty-year-old Guatemalan national Claudia Patricia Gomez Gonzalez by an agent of the United States Border Patrol, Torres presses President Trump for a thorough and transparent investigation of the incident, urges further reforms to Border Patrol procedures, and questions the administration’s strategy for securing the nation’s southwest border WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (D-CA) called on President Donald Trump to ensure that the killing of Claudia Patricia Gomez Gonzalez, a twenty-year-old accountant from an indigenous community in Guatemala, by an agent of the United States Border Patrol is thoroughly and transparently investigated. In her letter, Torres stressed the need for the Secretary of Homeland Security to implement further reforms to curb abuses, in light of the recent pattern of use of force incidents involving Customs and Border Patrol agents, and urged President Trump to reconsider the administration’s strategy for securing the United States’ southwest border in order to address the root causes of migration. “I understand that this incident is under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Rangers. It is important that these agencies carry out their investigations in a thorough and transparent manner, and that legal and disciplinary actions are taken, as warranted by the investigations, to ensure accountability,” wrote Torres. “It is also imperative that you clearly communicate to the Border Patrol and its agents that asylum seekers and undocumented immigrants are human beings, whose basic human rights must be respected. They are not, as you have stated, ‘animals,’” Torres continued. “Finally, I urge you to rethink your strategy for securing the United States’ southwest border. The use of deadly force against innocent and unarmed civilians will never make our southwest border secure. You would achieve much better results, for much less money, by working with the governments of Central America to address the root causes of migration, especially violence and poverty. I stand ready to work with you toward that end, and I will continue to press the political classes in Central America to do their part.” Torres, who was born in Guatemala, is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Rules Committee, and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Foreign Policy and Latin America Task Force. The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump, I write to express my profound concern regarding the May 23 killing of Guatemalan national Claudia Patricia Gomez Gonzalez. According to press reports, Ms. Gomez Gonzalez, a twenty-year-old accountant from an indigenous community in Guatemala, crossed the United States border on May 23 in search of employment opportunities, and to reunite with her boyfriend. Upon entry, she was shot and killed by an agent of the United States Border Patrol. The Border Patrol, in an initial statement, claimed that the agent in question “came under attack by multiple subjects using blunt objects”; however, Border Patrol later changed its story, instead claiming that the agent had been “rushed” by a group of migrants and dropping the it’s prior description of Ms. Gomez Gonzalez as an “assailant.” I understand that this incident is under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Rangers. It is important that these agencies carry out their investigations in a thorough and transparent manner, and that legal and disciplinary actions are taken, as warranted by the investigations, to ensure accountability. Likewise, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State must comply with any reasonable requests made on behalf of the family of Ms. Gomez Gonzalez through the Guatemalan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular, the timely return of her body to Guatemala. I also request that you disclose relevant information regarding the three witnesses who were apprehended, including whether they have obtained legal representation. The killing of Claudia Gomez Gonzalez was not an isolated incident. Of the 996 use of force incidents involving Customs and Border Patrol agents in Fiscal Year 2017, 889 involved the United States Border Patrol. I implore you to instruct the Secretary of Homeland Security to implement further reforms, such as the mandatory use of body cameras for all Border Patrol agents, to curb these abuses; it is troubling that Customs and Border Protection has still not fully implemented the Integrity Advisory Panel’s 2015-2016 recommendations, including recommendations addressing the use of force. It is also imperative that you clearly communicate to the Border Patrol and its agents that asylum seekers and undocumented immigrants are human beings, whose basic human rights must be respected. They are not, as you have stated, “animals.” Finally, I urge you to rethink your strategy for securing the United States’ southwest border. The use of deadly force against innocent and unarmed civilians will never make our southwest border secure. You would achieve much better results, for much less money, by working with the governments of Central America to address the root causes of migration, especially violence and poverty. I stand ready to work with you toward that end, and I will continue to press the political classes in Central America to do their part. Sincerely, ###
05.29.2018	In California, the Child Care and Development Block Grant program serves fewer than 14 percent of income eligible children, with an estimated 1.2 million children going unserved and 400,000 eligible children on child care waitlists WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres (CA-35) led members of the California congressional delegation in a letter to Governor Jerry Brown, Senate President Pro Tempore Toni Atkins, State Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, and the California Legislative Women’s Caucus to encourage the use of additional Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) funds to expand child care assistance in the state. “As you well know, child care remains one of the highest costs for working families, resulting in millions of parents forced to choose between economic security and quality care for their children,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “We know you would agree with us that we can and must do more for California’s working families. With this tremendous need for expanded child care services, the allocation of new CCDBG funds must prioritize serving a greater pool of children.” In addition to Torres, the letter was signed by Reps. Mark Takano (CA-41), Lou Correa (CA-46), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Cárdenas (CA-29), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Scott Peters (CA-52), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), John Garamendi (CA-3), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ro Khanna (CA-17), and Raul Ruiz (CA-36). Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. The full text of the letter is available below. Dear […]: As strong supporters of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program, we write to you to emphasize the importance of utilizing additional CCDBG funds to expand child care assistance, and therefore serve more children. Under your leadership, California has invested towards rebuilding the ECE and child care programs throughout the state by increasing provider reimbursement rates, enhancing quality improvement activities and expanding family income eligibility. We are excited to continue your great work by utilizing these additional CCDBG funds to expand child access and improve provider quality. As you well know, child care remains one of the highest costs for working families, resulting in millions of parents forced to choose between economic security and quality care for their children. To combat the growing need for child care assistance, Congress passed a FY 2018 omnibus spending bill with the single largest increase in federal funding for the CCDBG program, adding $2.4 billion in discretionary funds. Since the financial crisis in 2007, Congress has failed to sufficiently fund child care and development programs, instigating a drastic decline in access to affordable child care. CCDBG specifically, has continued to be funded at below pre-recession levels, resulting in the smallest number of children served in the program’s history. In California alone – despite the state’s ability to match CCDBG funding – the program serves fewer than 14% of income eligible children, with an estimated 1.2 million eligible children not being served. Additionally, California child care waitlists contain over 400,000 eligible children. We know you would agree with us that we can and must do more for California’s working families. With this tremendous need for expanded child care services, the allocation of new CCDBG funds must prioritize serving a greater pool of children. We hope you will join us in upholding CCDBG’s mission and guaranteeing that CCDBG is effectively implemented. Sincerely, ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Hoy, la representante Norma J. Torres (D-CA), fundadora y copresidenta del bipartidista Caucus de Asuntos de Centroamérica, anunció que una enmienda que presentó fue aprobada por unanimidad por la Cámara de Representantes. La enmienda, que se incluyó en la Ley de Autorización de Defensa Nacional (NDAA) anual, requerirá que el Secretario de Defensa elabore una lista de funcionarios de los gobierno centroamericanos que están involucrados en la corrupción. “Hoy, el Congreso ha dado un paso importante para fortalecer el estado de derecho en América Central. Durante varios años, los demócratas y los republicanos en el Congreso de los Estados Unidos se han unido para apoyar a los valientes fiscales, jueces e investigadores policiales que trabajan para erradicar la corrupción y el crimen organizado”, dijo Torres. “La Comisión Internacional contra la Impunidad en Guatemala y la Misión de Apoyo contra la Corrupción y la Impunidad en Honduras han jugado un papel esencial en este proceso”. La aprobación de la enmienda se produce mientras los funcionarios corruptos y las redes de delincuencia organizada en Centroamérica están intensificado sus esfuerzos para revertir la lucha contra la corrupción. En Honduras, El Salvador y Guatemala, las legislaturas han aprobado leyes dirigidas a debilitar las penas por corrupción. Al mismo tiempo, los fiscales, los jueces y los líderes de las organizaciones internacionales contra la corrupción han enfrentado a campañas de difamación y amenazas contra sus vidas. Algunas personas de América Central incluso han contratado a firmas de cabildeo en Washington para influir en la política de Estados Unidos en Centroamérica, en algunos casos pagando hasta 80.000 dólares por mes. "No debería sorprendernos que los funcionarios corruptos en Centroamérica intenten socavar la lucha contra la corrupción”, dijo Torres. “Pero eso no significa que debamos aceptarlo. Es hora de que nos pongamos hombro con hombro con nuestros aliados verdaderos de la región al perseguir directamente a algunos de estos malos actores”. Torres es miembro de la Subcomisión sobre el Hemisferio Occidental del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara de Representantes. El año pasado, la Cámara de Representantes aprobó la resolución bipartidista que presentó para reafirmar el apoyo del Congreso para la lucha contra la corrupción y su enmienda para proteger el financiamiento de la Comisión Internacional contra la Impunidad en Guatemala y la Misión de Apoyo contra la Corrupción y Impunidad en Honduras. ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Hal Rogers (R-KY) have led a bipartisan group of members of Congress in calling on President Donald Trump not to shift management of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program from the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to the Department of Justice. The program’s location within the Office of the President and not a specific agency has fostered an unprecedented level of cooperation, coordination, and information-sharing between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies across the nation. “As strong supporters of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, we write to urge to you to maintain the HIDTA program within the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP),” the federal lawmakers wrote. “…ONDCP has ensured that state and local law enforcement agencies have a leading role in the program’s management in each region. This allows each region to effectively tailor strategies to the unique challenges and threats that the region is facing while still focusing on accomplishing the goals of the National Drug Control Policy. This local and state input is critical not only to the effectiveness of HIDTA, but also to informing drug policy at the federal level.” The federal lawmakers continued, “At a time when communities across the country are struggling with one of the worst drug crises in our nation’s history, we respectfully urge you not to disrupt one of the most effective counter-narcotics law enforcement tools in the federal government’s toolbox.” In addition to Torres and Rogers, the letter was also signed by Reps. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Bill Pascrell (D-NY), Pete Sessions (R-TX), Lucille Royball-Allard (D-CA), Evan Jenkins (R-WV), Jim Costa (D-CA), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Andy Barr (R-KY), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Andre Carson (D-IN), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Tim Ryan (D-OH), David B. McKinley (R-WV), Peter Defazio (D-OR), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Joe Kennedy, III (D-MA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district. She previously worked for more than 17 years as a 9-1-1 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. Rogers represents Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District. Fifteen years ago, he launched a non-profit organization called, Operation UNITE, in response to the deadly prescription drug abuse epidemic that first erupted in his rural region, utilizing a three-pronged approach including law enforcement, treatment and education. The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump, As strong supporters of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, we write to urge to you to maintain the HIDTA program within the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). Since its creation in 1988, HIDTA has become one of the nation’s most important tools in the fight against drug trafficking. HIDTA has received continued bipartisan support from Congress, and from law enforcement and criminal justice experts at the state, local, and national levels, because of its well-earned reputation for effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability. In 2017 alone HIDTA programs resulted in the investigation of 8,067 drug trafficking and money laundering organizations, and in the seizure of approximately 2,767 tons of marijuana plants, 117 tons of cocaine, 28 tons of methamphetamine, 5.2 tons of heroin, and more than 1 ton of prescription narcotics. Furthermore, HIDTA programs apprehended over 50,923 fugitives in the same year. Key to HIDTA’s effectiveness is its management by the ONDCP. Because it is located within the Office of the President and not a specific agency, ONDCP has been able to be a completely neutral broker. This neutrality has fostered an unprecedented level of continual collaboration between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies across our nation. This neutrality was the cornerstone the HIDTA Program was built upon. In addition, ONDCP has ensured that state and local law enforcement agencies have a leading role in the program’s management in each region. This allows each region to effectively tailor strategies to the unique challenges and threats that the region is facing while still focusing on accomplishing the goals of the National Drug Control Policy. This local and state input is critical not only to the effectiveness of HIDTA, but also to informing drug policy at the federal level. We therefore join the many state and local law enforcement agencies, the National Governors Association, and numerous grassroots organizations and services providers from across the country that have expressed their opposition to shifting HIDTA management to the Department of Justice. While we recognize that it is unusual for an office within the White House to manage a federal grant program, we believe that HIDTA’s record of success speaks for itself. At a time when communities across the country are struggling with one of the worst drug crises in our nation’s history, we respectfully urge you not to disrupt one of the most effective counter-narcotics law enforcement tools in the federal government’s toolbox. Thank you in advance for considering this important request. Sincerely, ###
05.22.2018	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) recently congratulated four area high school students accepted to the U.S. nilitary service academies. The students were nominated by a panel of judges with military backgrounds. Following a rigorous application and interview process, the judges made their recommendations to the respective service academies for final approval. “Each year, one of my greatest privileges as a member of Congress is to nominate the best candidates our district has to offer. I want to congratulate these four exceptional students on their acceptance into the service academies,” said Torres. “These students will not only receive an excellent education and learn invaluable skills and training, they’ll also serve California and our nation proudly.” The following are this year’s nominees, their city of residence, high school, and the academy to which they have been accepted: Air Force Academy Lucas Florendo, Fontana Jurupa Hills High School Air Force Academy Prep School Malachi Samuels, Fontana Diamond Bar High School USMA (West Point) Nicholas Ramos, Chino Chino Hills High School USMA (West Point) Prep School Jacob Turner, Chino Damien High School Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. In addition to a free college education, the honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. Rep. Torres will nominate, through a competitive process, one individual for each vacant academy slot allotted to the 35th district. PHOTO CAPTION: Representative Norma J. Torres congratulates local students Lucas Florendo, Malachi Samuels, Nicholas Ramos, and Jacob Turner on their acceptance to the nation’s military service academies. ###
05.10.2018	Many of the nation’s airports, including Ontario International Airport, previously or currently shared space with facilities from our Armed Services; many of these sites have sat largely unchanged for decades due to the environmental hazards of demolition Torres’s tour comes on the heels of the House’s passage of two of her legislative proposals to make better use of vacant military facilities and reduce airport noise ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) recently visited the Ontario International Airport to discuss the need to improve the upkeep and efficiency of local airports. Ontario International Airport shared space with the Ontario Air National Guard Station, which remained in operation for decades, assisting training and support for Korean, Vietnam, and countless other wars and conflicts. In 1997, the facility closed and the site sat unchanged for twenty years. On the tour, Torres met with airport officials and viewed the National Guard barracks and airplane hangar and touted the benefits her recently passed legislative proposals would have on Ontario International Airport’s ability to remove and improve these unused military facilities. Torres’s first proposal would create an Environmental Mitigation Pilot Program to allow the Department of Defense to provide additional funding for airport improvements at vacant facilities, including those located in Ontario. The second proposal would study the economic impacts of airport noise on communities near busy airports. “My tour of Ontario International Airport provided me with an invaluable firsthand look at the needs of our local airports. From removing hazardous lead-based paint to developing sites that have sat unused and vacant decades after our armed services moved out, it’s clear we should be doing more to improve and invest in these facilities,” said Torres. “This visit underscored the importance of the legislative proposals I’ve put forth to make it easier for our airports to regain control of these valuable resources, provide stability for our nation’s aviation community, and create jobs to strengthen American competitiveness in aviation.” Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force, and represents California’s 35th congressional district, which includes Ontario International Airport. One of her first accomplishments upon being elected to Congress was returning the airport to local control—which has already resulted in more flights and options for the residents of the Inland Empire. Photo Caption 1: Congresswoman Torres tours the “old” National Guard airplane hangar with Ontario International Airport Chief Operating Officer Bruce Atlas. Behind her is a column of grey insulation contaminated with asbestos. Download here. Photo Caption 2: Congresswoman Torres listens as Ontario Airport officials explain the costly process of lead abatement and the potential use for the property to create jobs and generate revenue for the local economy. Download here. Photo Caption 3: An uninhabitable National Guard barrack covered in lead-based paint is pictured. Download here. Photo Caption 4: A runway that was used by the National Guard and was once full of potential now goes unused. Download here. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Tom Cole (R-OK) announced that the House Committee on Natural Resources passed their bipartisan Jobs for Tribes Act, paving the way for a vote on the House floor. The bill would strengthen Indian Country’s ability to become more self-sufficient by providing urgently needed business and economic development assistance. “While the nation just hit unemployment levels below four percent, the same cannot be said for Indian Country,” said Torres. “Our bill would bring us one step closer to ensuring that our Indian tribal business owners and communities can tap into their economic potential and have the same opportunities to succeed afforded to any other local or state government. As the bill now moves onto a vote in the full House, I will continue to push for policies that advance the self-determination and self-sufficiency of tribal nations.” “Native Americans are strong contributors to our economy, and I am proud to support this legislation that will help advance entrepreneurship, self-sufficiency and commercial growth,” said Cole. “This bill will support Native American communities with the tools and assistance they need to achieve success in the business sector. I look forward to supporting it on the House Floor for a vote.” Native Americans face high rates of poverty and unemployment in Indian Country. This is primarily due to the lack of infrastructure and access to capital for Indian tribes, which are not recognized as governmental entities under federal tax and other regulatory laws. By failing to acknowledge Indian tribes as an authorized governing body, tribes’ ability to benefit from investment incentives accorded to state and local governments are blocked. The Jobs for Tribes Act would support Indian Country’s ability to become more self-reliant and help tribes tap into their entrepreneurial spirit by providing urgently needed business and economic development assistance to American Indian and Alaska Native communities, their enterprises and businesses. The legislation also requires the development of a strategy for the promotion and facilitation of increased trade between Native American tribes and indigenous peoples of the Western hemisphere. The bill is supported by the National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development, National Congress of American Indians, Native American Contractors Association, Coalition of Large Tribes, United and South Eastern Tribes, and Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians. Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. She previously served as Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the subcommittee which oversees all matters regarding Native Americans. ###
05.03.2018	The Keep Your Home Act would strengthen investment in vital homeowner assistance program, the Hardest Hit Fund To date, more than 80,000 homeowners in California alone, and hundreds of thousands in participating states have been assisted by the program WASHINGTON, DC — Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Keep Your Home Act, a bill geared towards helping homeowners in participating states struggling to get out from underneath their mortgage payments. This bill would bolster the Hardest Hit Fund, a supplementary homeowner assistance program that was established by President Obama within the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to provide states with support to reinvest in impacted homeowner communities. “One of the biggest concerns I hear from constituents is a lack of affordable housing for working families. My bill will help address this problem. When our region was fighting to come back from the Great Recession, the Hardest Hit Fund was there to prevent homeowners from losing their homes,” said Torres. “Today, as incomes struggle to keep pace with costs, homeowners and middle class families are still struggling to remain afloat. The Keep Your Home Act would reinforce our investment in them to help ensure they can keep the homes they’ve worked so hard to earn.” In 2016, Congress extended authorization for the program and added $2 billion of TARP funds to assist additional homeowners. The program is now running low on funds, but a simple transfer of existing TARP funds would give the Hardest Hit Fund new life. The Keep Your Home Act would transfer up to $5.5 billion of TARP funds into the Hardest Hit Fund, extend the authorization of the program, and put in place safeguards to ensure that states assist homeowners in a timely fashion. In California the program has been used to provide help for those experiencing unemployment, those who have fallen behind on payments, lowering outstanding principal on a mortgage, and help those undergoing a short sale. Other states have similar programs, which can be found here. Torres has long been an advocate for affordable housing. During her time in the California State Legislature, she led efforts to provide financial assistance to millions of California families negatively impacted by the great recession, helped secure $2 billion in federal funds for the “Keep Your Home California” program, passed the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights, and authored legislation to accelerate the construction of affordable housing, help delinquent homeowners refinance their second mortgages, and make it easier for returning veterans to purchase homes. Torres is a member of the powerful Rules Committee, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force, and a member of the Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity Task Force. Last year, she introduced the HUD Manufactured Housing Modernization Act of 2017 to increase the availability of affordable housing by modernizing outdated regulations so they include new manufactured housing options. ###
05.02.2018	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) unveiled the winner of the 35th District’s 2018 Congressional Art Competition at an awards ceremony and exhibition at the Ontario Museum of History and Art. The winning piece, My Bedroom, by Ebony Chavez of Village Academy in the Pomona Unified School District, was selected out of 85 pieces submitted from 85 participants representing 6 high schools throughout the district. “I congratulate Ebony on her winning artwork and look forward to seeing Pomona’s talent hanging in the halls of the U.S. Capitol,” said Torres. “It was inspiring to walk around the exhibition and reflect on the incredible skills these students possess at such a young age. It’s a reminder of the need to foster and promote the arts and to invest in arts education.” Chavez’s winning still life piece took more than three weeks to finish, and completes her portfolio of still life paintings from high school. Her work will be on year-long display throughout the year in the U.S. Capitol Complex. Winners were selected by a panel of expert judges who included Chaffey College Professor John Machado and Executive Director of the Ontario Museum of Art and History Michelle Sifuentes. ###
04.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), member of the powerful Rules Committee which helps determine the passage of amendments, announced that two amendments she offered to the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 passed on the House floor. The first amendment would create an Environmental Mitigation Pilot Program to allow the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide additional funding for airport improvements at vacant facilities, including those located in Ontario. The second amendment would add economic impacts to the study on the effects of airport noise on communities near busy airports. “Airports have the power to transform our communities into economic engines. To get those engines reeving at full strength, it is essential to make efficient use of airport facilities that were once operated by our Armed Services and to understand the economic impact of airport noise,” said Torres. “My amendments would return airport resources to local airports, like Ontario International Airport, and present a clearer picture of the challenges facing our communities and the aviation industry so that we may best help resolve them.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force and represents California’s 35th congressional district, which includes Ontario International Airport. One of her first accomplishments upon being elected to Congress was returning the airport to local control—which has already resulted in more flights and options for the residents of the Inland Empire. ###
04.25.2018	A recent report revealed that a Panamanian law firm sent a letter on behalf of the Trump Organization to Panamanian President Juan Carlos Varela to request his intervention in an ongoing legal dispute over Trump Ocean Club Panama Request raises concerns about the Foreign Emoluments Clause, United States’ credibility on questions of corruption and rule of law WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA), co-Chair of the Central America caucus, Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to Trump Organization General Counsel Alan Garten to seek clarification following a recent report by the Associated Press that the Trump Organization sought the President of Panama’s intervention in a legal dispute with the owners of the Trump Ocean Club Panama. The lawmakers raised concerns over the leveraging of the diplomatic relationship between the United States and Panama to advance the private interests of the Trump Organization. “This request raises a key question: has the Trump Organization sought to leverage the Office of the President and the diplomatic relationship between the United States and Panama to advance the company's private interests? We note that President Trump never divested his holdings in the Trump Organization, and that the company continues to be managed by members of the President's family. Any use of public office for private gain likely violates both federal law and ethics regulations, and would certainly merit further investigation,” wrote Torres, Engel, and Nadler. The lawmakers continued, “Additionally, we are concerned that this letter could undermine the credibility of the United States on questions of corruption and the rule of law. By requesting that the President of Panama intercede in a judicial proceeding—in President Trump's name, no less—the letter shows a lack of respect for judicial independence in Panama, a country that has made considerable efforts to strengthen the capacity of its legal system to combat money laundering and corruption. It is troubling that the President of the United States would be among the principal beneficiaries of such a violation of the principle of judicial independence, and we applaud the President of Panama for his refusal to intercede in the legal proceedings in question.” Previously, Torres and Engel have written to Drug Enforcement Administration Acting Director Robert Patterson and Trump Organization General Counsel Alan Garten to understand the organization’s knowledge of and role in sales at this property connected to allegations of money laundering and drug trafficking. The full text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. Garten, We write to express concern regarding recent communications between the Trump Organization and the President of Panama, concerning a legal dispute over a property managed by the Trump Organization in Panama, and to request additional information. On April 9, 2018, the Associated Press published a letter written by Panamanian law firm Britton and Iglesias on behalf of the Trump Organization, addressed to President Juan Carlos Varela of Panama. In the letter, Britton and Iglesias requested that President Varela intervene in a legal dispute between the Trump Organization and the owners of a Trump-branded hotel in Panama City. Specifically, the letter states: "We appreciate your influence in order to avoid that these damages are attributed not to the other party, but to the Panamanian government.” This request raises a key question: has the Trump Organization sought to leverage the Office of the President and the diplomatic relationship between the United States and Panama to advance the company's private interests? We note that President Trump never divested his holdings in the Trump Organization, and that the company continues to be managed by members of the President's family. Any use of public office for private gain likely violates both federal law and ethics regulations, and would certainly merit further investigation. A broader principle is also at stake. The Foreign Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution provides that "no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust wider [the United States] shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State." The Clause was designed to prevent our country's leaders from being corrupted by foreign powers or influenced by their own financial interests at the expense of the nation. Additionally, we are concerned that this letter could undermine the credibility of the United States on questions of corruption and the rule of law. By requesting that the President of Panama intercede in a judicial proceeding—in President Trump's name, no less—the letter shows a lack of respect for judicial independence in Panama, a country that has made considerable efforts to strengthen the capacity of its legal system to combat money laundering and corruption. It is troubling that the President of the United States would be among the principal beneficiaries of such a violation of the principle of judicial independence, and we applaud the President of Panama for his refusal to intercede in the legal proceedings in question. As you know, combating corruption and strengthening the rule of law remains a significant foreign policy priority for the United States, and success in this area is critical to our national security. In Fiscal Year 2017 alone, the United States Congress appropriated $533,200,000 in Western Hemisphere funds within the State Department's International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement Account. It is our responsibility to ensure not only that these funds are effectively utilized, but also that the President and all other relevant government officials are free from any conflicts of interest that could inhibit their ability to faithfully execute the underlying policy aims. Additionally, the Judiciary committee has jurisdiction over matters concerning Constitutional violations, and there is pending legislation that would clarify the application of the Emoluments Clause to the President and his business dealings. Because the President has not wholly divested himself from his business interests, we are concerned the behavior in these circumstances gives the appearance the President is profiting from relations with foreign governments, which is in violation of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution. We respectfully request that you provide, in a timely manner and in any event no later than May 9, 2018, answers to the following questions: Was the Britton & Iglesias letter sent at the request of President Trump or any other government official? If so, whom? Was the letter sent at the request of the Trump Organization? Has the Trump Organization, or has Britton & Iglesias, made any other attempt to communicate with the President of Panama or any other political figures in Panama, with regard to the legal dispute concerning Trump Ocean Club Panama? What other communications has the Trump Organization, or any organization representing the Trump Organization, made witli other foreign government officials with regards to Trump Organization properties, since President Trump assumed office? Since President Trump's inauguration, has the President or any member of his Administration participated in any decision to expand the presence of the Trump brand elsewhere in the Panamanian market? Given that President Trump has not divested his holdings in the Trump Organization, would he stand to benefit financially in any way if the President of Panama had granted the Trump Organization's request to intervene in this judicial process? Thank you for your prompt attention this important issue. Sincerely, ###
04.13.2018	Since 2008, the United States has provided more than $1 billion to address violence, organized crime, and narcotics trafficking in Central America; Systemic corruption is undermining these goals in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador Bill would direct the Secretary of State to develop strategy to enhance United States efforts to dismantle corruption in the Northern Triangle region WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus and member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, has introduced legislation to bolster the United States’ anti-corruption efforts in the Northern Triangle region of Central America. Since 2008, the United States has provided more than $1 billion through the Central America Regional Security Initiative in order to address violence, organized crime, and narcotics trafficking. However, the State Department’s 2017 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report cited persistent corruption within the region’s political institutions as a key obstacle to achieving these goals. “The United States must remain committed to the fight against corruption in the Northern Triangle. We have to stand with our partners like CICIG, MACCIH, and the current Attorneys General, and we have to stand up to those corrupt officials who are standing in the way of progress,” said Torres. “The End Corruption in the Northern Triangle Act will strike at the heart of corruption and bring greater transparency and accountability to our efforts. This is urgent—unless we crack down on corruption now, we are putting at risk the stability and prosperity of our key partners in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. This could increase the number of families fleeing the region, while harming the investment climate for U.S. companies that want to do business there.” H.R. 5501, the End Corruption in the Northern Triangle Act would require the Secretary of State to submit to Congress a report naming individuals, including government officials, who have committed acts of corruption and drug trafficking in the Northern Triangle. The bill would also direct the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to dismantle corruption in the region. Furthermore, it would require the Secretary of State would make available on the State Department website the total amounts of assistance under the Central America Regional Security Initiative that have been provided to each country within Central America since fiscal year 2008. The bill comes as leaders of the Western Hemisphere prepare to gather in Lima, Peru, for the Summit of the Americas. Rep. Torres will join a congressional delegation to the Summit. The theme of this year’s Summit is “Democratic Governance against Corruption.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Foreign Policy and Latin America Task Force. Last year, the House of Representatives approved H.Res 145, Torres’s resolution reaffirming congressional support for the fight against corruption in Central America. ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In letters to the House Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) called for robust investment in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, and in the nation’s 472 Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI). Specifically, Torres requested funding for: New development grants to build on current efforts to further computer science education, and better prepare students for careers in the field; The National Science Foundation (NSF) and its Research and Related Activities and Education and Human Resources Directorate, which supports the teaching and learning of computer science education in schools across the nation; Programs that support students pursuing their undergraduate and graduate degrees at HSIs, including grants for Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities; And the NSF HIS program, which is designed to increase the recruitment, retention and graduation rates of Hispanic students pursuing degrees in STEM and increase the quality of STEM education. HSIs in the Inland Empire region include: California State Polytechnic University-Pomona, California State University-San Bernardino, California Baptist University, University of La Verne, and La Sierra University. “As the manufacturing industry in the Inland Empire grows, so does the demand for a diverse workforce that is equipped with the skills to succeed in STEM careers. Training workers to take on the jobs of tomorrow must begin at an early age,” said Torres. “Investing in quality STEM education prepares our students in elementary school through graduate school—especially those enrolled in the nation’s Hispanic-Serving Institutions—to compete and succeed in the 21st century economy.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. Computer science education letter may be found here. National Science Foundation letter may be found here. Hispanic-Serving Institutions letter may be found here. ###
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In letters to the House Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) requested robust funding to maintain security and improve wait times at the nation's air, land, and sea ports. “The Inland Empire and the greater Los Angeles area are not only major tourist destinations, but also bustling hubs for transit and commerce in California,” said Torres. “We must ensure that we have the proper law enforcement and staff in place to improve security and reduce wait times at our ports of entry, including at our rapidly growing Ontario International Airport.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force and represents California’s 35th congressional district, which includes LA/Ontario International Airport. One of her first accomplishments upon being elected to Congress was returning the airport to local control – which has already resulted in more flights and options for the residents of the Inland Empire. Last year, the House unanimously passed Torres’ H.R. 3101, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2017, to improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at the nation’s ports. She was also an original cosponsor of H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, which was passed into law, to direct the Department of Homeland Security to ensure airports have in place individualized working plans for responding to security incidents inside an airport’s perimeters. ###
04.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus and member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s comments about Central American migration: “President Trump acts surprised that many Central American families are crossing Mexico in search of refuge. He should not be surprised. There is nothing new about the violence and poverty that are driving so many of these families from their homes. The Central America Caucus has been working on a bipartisan basis to address those problems. Unfortunately, President Trump’s weak leadership and lack of principles have made the situation much worse. “Many of the migrants and refugees in the caravan are fleeing Honduras, where violence, human rights violations, and instability are on the rise after a deeply tainted election, when a lack of legitimacy and the violent repression of protests diminished the Honduran people’s faith in the country’s already frail and corrupt institutions. The Organization of American States, which for many years has worked with the United States to promote democracy in the Americas, said publicly that it could not be sure which candidate won. The OAS Secretary General even called for new elections. But the Trump administration did not have the courage to stand with the OAS and its Secretary General. In fact, the State Department issued a certification of Honduras’ progress before the dust was settled. “By abandoning the cause of democracy in Honduras, the Trump administration has helped to create the chaos we are seeing there now. Instead of blaming Mexico for a new wave of Central American migration, President Trump should look in the mirror.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Foreign Policy and Latin America Task Force. Last year, the House of Representatives approved H.Res 145, Torres’ resolution reaffirming congressional support for the fight against corruption in Central America. ###
04.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In several letters to the House Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) called for robust funding for regional transportation planning and transit oriented development. Last year, the House of Representatives unanimously approved two amendments introduced by Torres to increase funding for infrastructure and transit programs. The first amendment provided $12 million for the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Demonstration (RIA) Program, which Torres passed into law as part of the 2015 FAST Act. The second amendment directed $10 million to planning for Transit Oriented Development. Specifically, Torres requested funding for: The U.S. Department of Transportation to carry out the Transit Oriented Development pilot program, which assists communities with transit planning that connects housing, jobs, and mixed use development. The RIA Program, which helps local governments improve infrastructure through alternative financing methods. The Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program, which supports job creation through investment in large local transportation projects. The Transit Security Grant Program, which is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and provides grants to make security improvements to transit. The Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grants (CIG) Program, which is critical to communities with transit projects that are currently underway. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, which ensures that our nation’s ports can keep pace with the commerce from the Inland Empire. “As more people are priced out of Los Angeles and move into the Inland Empire, it’s critical that residents have reliable transportation options,” said Torres. “The federal government is a key partner in developing innovative solutions for improving our roads, bridges, airports, and maritime ports. These transportation improvements support job creation in our communities. That’s what makes investing in these public transportation programs so important. They’re an investment in a safer, more competitive future for Southern California.” Torres is the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force and a co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition 21st Century Infrastructure Task Force.
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In letters to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of several subcommittees of the House Committee on Appropriations, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) called for full funding of the programs under the umbrella of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness’ Opening Doors: Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness, and for $65 million in funding for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Counseling Assistance program. “Homelessness is one of the biggest challenges facing the Inland Empire. No one who protected our freedoms overseas should be forced to live under a bridge when they return home. As the mother of an Air Force veteran and a former State Senator, I know that tackling this issue requires comprehensive, cooperative approaches,” said Torres. “Funding these programs will help ensure our veterans and families in need have access to the essential services they depend on and a path to improve their lives.” Through the Opening Doors programs, the Department of Veterans Affairs is able to assist homeless veterans transition to permanent housing, access appropriate health care, benefits, and rehabilitation and treatment services, among other resources. The Housing Counseling Assistance program supports high quality, independent non-profit housing counselors to work directly with consumers—especially those from low and moderate incomes and communities of color—to empower them to make informed financial decisions that lead to increased homeownership and reduced foreclosures. Torres is a member of the Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity Task Force and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. During her time in Congress, California has been the largest recipient of federal homelessness program assistance, as Southern California looks to address the estimated 60,000 homeless individuals in Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties. ###
03.19.2018	One January 2017 Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Taskforce operation resulted in 36 arrests for suspected trafficking; Since its creation, the task force has rescued at least 120 children and 42 adult victims Over the past year, the San Bernardino County Human Trafficking Task Force has made 50 arrests for suspected trafficking WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in a letter to the House Committee on Appropriations calling for $50 million in funding nationwide for U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grant programs that support anti-human trafficking task forces, such as the Los Angeles County Task Force and the San Bernardino County Human Trafficking Task Force. “Human trafficking is a growing problem in our community and we need to do everything we can to help the victims and go after the perpetrators,” Torres said. “That’s why increasing funding for efforts like those of the Los Angeles and San Bernardino County task forces are so important. Our local law enforcement officers should have access to the resources they need to fight back against this terrible crime, and collaborate with service providers to help victims recover and rebuild their lives.” In addition to Torres, the letter was signed by Representatives Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Randy Weber (R-TX), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Darren Soto (D-FL), David Scott (D-GA), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Alma Adams (D-NC), and Ted Lieu (D-CA). Torres is a member of the Speaker’s Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs and the Congressional Human Trafficking Caucus, and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Budget Task Force. She previously helped secure nearly $70,000 in DOJ grants to combat human trafficking and prostitution in the City of Pomona. The full text of the letter is below. Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano, As you complete consideration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) appropriations bill, and begin work on the Fiscal Year 2019 bill, we write to express our strong support for Department of Justice grant programs that encourage the creation of anti-human trafficking task forces. Human trafficking is on the rise across the United States. The Polaris Project estimates that the number of human trafficking victims in the United States reaches into the tens of thousands, and the National Human Trafficking Hotline receives as many as 300 reports per day. As law enforcement agencies investigate and prosecute the traffickers, it is essential to simultaneously address the needs of the victims, and to ensure that they do not fall back into the hands of traffickers. Effective partnerships between federal, state, and local law enforcement, together with victim services organizations and community agencies, are essential. As you know, since 2010, the Office for Victims of Crime and the Bureau of Justice Assistance have provided funding for grants through the “Enhanced Collaborative Model Task Force.” These grants have enabled the creation of effective anti-trafficking task forces, such as the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Taskforce, which was created in November 2015 and is led by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Office, in partnership with the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Homeland Security Investigations, and the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking (CAST). The Los Angeles County Task Force has been remarkably successful. One January 2017 task force operation resulted in 36 arrests for suspected trafficking; since its creation, the task force has rescued at least 120 children and 42 adult victims. It has led to improvements in communication and better cooperation among law enforcement agencies, and between law enforcement and service providers. We should build on this success by encouraging the development of new task forces, and increasing the capacity of those that already exist. In order to do that, we respectfully request that you provide $50,000,000 in funding for victim services programs for victims of trafficking, which were funded at the level of $45,000,000 in Fiscal Year 2017, in order to expand the size and number of human trafficking task forces that are supported through the Enhanced Collaborative Model Task Force grant program. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ###
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (D-NY): “I’m truly heartbroken at the passing of my friend and mentor Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. My heartfelt condolences go to her family and loved ones. Congresswoman Slaughter was a champion for women throughout her long career in public service. As one of the longest serving members of Congress, she was an icon who fearlessly fought for women’s rights and co-authored the Violence Against Women Act. She led by example, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to have served alongside her.” ### Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, a bipartisan group of 14 Members of Congress sent a letter to the Deputy Secretary of State, John Sullivan, underscoring the importance of the upcoming selection processes for new Attorneys General in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. The letter comes as Guatemala formally begins the process of selecting its next Attorney General; within the next twelve months, each of the Northern Triangle countries will select a new Attorney General. The current Attorneys General in the Northern Triangle have earned international praise for their efforts to fight corruption and organized crime; Guatemalan Attorney General Thelma Aldana was named one of Time Magazine’s 100 Most Influential People in 2017. The letter noted that each of the Attorneys General “has shown a willingness to cooperate with the United States, as well as the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) and the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH).” The Members of Congress also urged the Northern Triangle governments to “prioritize the selection of candidates who have impeccable legal credentials and who have demonstrated a clear commitment to transparency, anti-corruption efforts, judicial independence, and adherence to the rule of law.” The letter was drafted and circulated by the co-Chairs of the Central America Caucus, David G. Valadao (R-CA) and Norma J. Torres (D-CA); it was signed by twelve additional members of Congress, six Democrats and six Republicans. The co-signers were: Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Eliot L. Engel (D-CA), Paul Cook (R-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Kay Ganger (R-TX), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), John R. Moolenaar (R-MI), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Francis Rooney (R-FL), and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). The letter text is below. You can view the original letter here. Dear Deputy Secretary Sullivan, As strong supporters of the U.S. Strategy for Central America and the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle, we write to express our support for strong U.S. engagement with the governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, and to affirm the importance of the selection of new Attorneys General in the Northern Triangle. These positions are critical to advancing U.S. interests and regional prosperity, so we urge these governments to prioritize the selection of candidates who have impeccable legal credentials and who have demonstrated a clear commitment to transparency, anti-corruption efforts, judicial independence, and adherence to the rule of law. Strengthening the capacity and independence of public prosecutors in the Northern Triangle is an important policy priority for the United States. The Administration and Congress have recognized, on a bipartisan basis, that prosecutors in the Northern Triangle are key to dismantling the transnational criminal organizations that threaten our borders, reducing the violence driving Central Americans to flee their communities; and rooting out the widespread corruption and impunity that plagues these countries. Accordingly, in Fiscal Year 2017, Congress designated significant funds for the provision of technical assistance to the public prosecutors in each of the Northern Triangle countries. The current Attorneys General in the Northern Triangle have demonstrated a clear commitment to upholding the rule of law. Each has shown a willingness to cooperate with the United States, as well as the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) and the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH). Over the course of the next year, each of the Northern Triangle countries will carry out selection processes to choose new Attorneys General. It is essential that these selection processes be carried out in a transparent, thorough, and objective manner, permitting the active participation of civil society and the impartial evaluation of candidates. To that end, we encourage you to convey to the appropriate authorities the United States’ strong interest in these selection processes, and to offer technical assistance, should it be required. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this important request. Sincerely,
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Hoy, un grupo bipartidista de miembros del Congreso estadounidense escribieron al Subsecretario del Estado, John Sullivan, para subrayar la importancia del proceso de selección de nuevos Fiscales Generales en El Salvador, Guatemala y Honduras. La carta llega mientras Guatemala comienza formalmente el proceso de selección de su próximo Fiscal General, y dentro de los próximos doce meses, cada uno de los países del Triángulo Norte seleccionará nuevos Fiscales Generales. Los Fiscales Generales en el Triángulo Norte han obtenido reconocimiento internacional por sus esfuerzos para combatir la corrupción y el crimen organizado; La Fiscal General de Guatemala, Thelma Aldana, fue nombrada una de las 100 personas más influyentes de la revista Time en 2017. Asimismo, la carta de los congresistas señaló que cada uno de los Fiscales Generales "ha demostrado voluntad para colaborar con los Estados Unidos, así como con la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG) y la Misión de Apoyo Contra la Corrupción y la Impunidad en Honduras (MACCIH)". En la carta, los miembros del Congreso instaron a los gobiernos del Triángulo Norte “priorizar la selección de candidatos que cuenten con impecables credenciales legales y que hayan demostrado un claro compromiso con la transparencia, la lucha contra la corrupción, la independencia judicial, y el cumplimiento del Estado de derecho". La carta fue escrita y circulada por los copresidentes del Caucus de Asuntos de Centroamérica, David G. Valadao y Norma J. Torres, y firmada por doce congresistas adicionales, seis demócratas y seis republicanos, los representantes Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Eliot L. Engel (D-CA), Paul Cook (R-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Kay Ganger (R-TX), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), John R. Moolenaar (R-MI), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Francis Rooney (R-FL), y Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). Una traducción de cortesía está disponible a la continuación. Para ver la carta original, haga clic aquí. Estimado Subsecretario de Estado Sullivan, Como fuertes defensores de la estrategia estadounidense para Centro América y la Alianza para la Prosperidad del Triángulo Norte, le escribimos para expresar nuestro apoyo por el firme compromiso de los Estados Unidos con los gobiernos de El Salvador, Guatemala y Honduras, y para aseverar la importancia de la selección de los nuevos fiscales generales en el Triángulo Norte. Estas posiciones son críticas para avanzar los intereses estadounidenses y la prosperidad regional, y es por eso que instamos a estos gobiernos priorizar la selección de candidatos que cuenten con impecables credenciales legales y que hayan demostrado un claro compromiso con la transparencia, la lucha contra la corrupción, la independencia judicial, y el cumplimiento del Estado de derecho. Fortalecer la capacidad e independencia de las fiscalías en el Triángulo Norte es una importante prioridad política para los Estados Unidos. La administración y el Congreso han reconocido, de manera bipartidista, que los fiscales en el Triángulo Norte son clave para desmantelar las organizaciones criminales trasnacionales que amenazan nuestras fronteras, reduciendo la violencia que lleva a Centroamericanos a huir de sus comunidades; y para combatir la extensa corrupción e impunidad que afecta a estos países. Como consecuencia, en el año fiscal del 2017, el Congreso designó importantes fondos para brindar asistencia técnica a los Ministerios Públicos en cada uno de los países del Triángulo Norte. Los actuales Fiscales Generales del Triángulo Norte han demostrado un claro compromiso con el cumplimiento del Estado de derecho. Cada uno ha demostrado voluntad para cooperar con los Estados Unidos, así como con la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG) y la Misión de Apoyo Contra la Corrupción y la Impunidad en Honduras (MACCIH). A lo largo del próximo año, cada país del Triángulo Norte llevará a cabo un proceso de selección para elegir al próximo Fiscal General. Es esencial que estos procesos de selección sean realizados de una manera transparente, rigurosa y objetiva, y que permita la participación activa de la sociedad civil y la evaluación imparcial de los candidatos. Con ese fin, le pedimos comunicar a las autoridades apropiadas el fuerte interés de los Estados Unidos en estos procesos de selección, y ofrecer asistencia técnica en caso se necesite. Muchas gracias por su consideración a esta importante solicitud. Cordialmente, ###
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, sent a letter to Drug Enforcement Administration Acting Director Robert Patterson to press the agency for answers about money laundering and drug trafficking at the Trump Ocean Club Panama, also known as the Bahia Grand Panama. A November 2017 Global Witness report alleged that as many as ten units in the original Trump Ocean Club Panama were purchased through intermediaries connected to drug money laundering. “We, therefore, write to request a Committee briefing, at the earliest date possible, about both money laundering in Panama’s real estate sector, and whether the Drug Enforcement Administration is aware of any significant narcotics traffickers who are, or who at any time have been, the direct or beneficial owners of units in Trump Ocean Club Panama,” Torres and Engel wrote. Torres and Engel continued, “It is critical that we bring justice not only to those who are directly involved in drug trafficking, but also individuals and organizations, whether in government or the private sector, who knowingly and willingly enable it.” Earlier this month, Torres and Engel wrote to the Trump Organization General Counsel Alan Garten to understand the organization’s knowledge of and role in sales at this property connected to allegations of money laundering and drug trafficking. Copy of original letter here. The full text of the letter is below. Dear Administrator Patterson, As members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, we write to express our grave concern about past instances of narcotics-related money laundering in Panama’s real estate sector, as well as the possibility that this criminal activity may have tainted the Panama business interests of the Trump Organization, and, by extension, of President Trump, leading to possible conflicts of interest that would be of serious concern to us and to the Committee. We, therefore, write to request a Committee briefing, at the earliest date possible, about both money laundering in Panama’s real estate sector, and whether the Drug Enforcement Administration is aware of any significant narcotics traffickers who are, or who at any time have been, the direct or beneficial owners of units in Trump Ocean Club Panama. The State Department’s 2017 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report noted that “Panama’s strategic geographic location; dollarized economy; status as a regional financial, trade, and logistics hub; and favorable corporate and tax laws make it an attractive location for money launderers.” The report went on to explain that, “Money laundered in Panama primarily comes from drug trafficking proceeds due to its location along major trafficking routes,” many of which begin in Colombia, the world’s top producer of cocaine. Coca cultivation in Colombia has been on the rise since 2015, despite years of U.S.-supported counter-narcotics efforts in the country. Powerful transnational criminal organizations, including Mexico’s Sinaloa Cartel traffic cocaine and other illicit substances from Colombia, through Central America and Mexico, and across our southwest border, leaving a trail of bloodshed, corruption, and misery in their wake, and devastating families and communities across the United States. We are committed to ensuring effective U.S. counter-narcotics policies in the Western Hemisphere. It is critical that we bring justice not only to those who are directly involved in drug trafficking, but also individuals and organizations, whether in government or the private sector, who knowingly and willingly enable it. It is in recognition of this fact that President Clinton, in 1995, issued Executive Order 12978, which provided the Department of the Treasury authority to carry out asset blocking and visa denials against individuals, who fit the following criteria: “Plays a significant role in international narcotics trafficking centered in Colombia; Materially assists in, or provides financial or technological support for or goods or services in support of, the narcotics trafficking activities of specially designated narcotics traffickers; or Is owned or controlled by, or acts for or on behalf of, any other specially designated narcotics trafficker.” In 1999, this sanctions authority was expanded worldwide when President Clinton signed the Kingpin Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 1901-1908 and 8 U.S.C § 1182). It is in this spirit that we express our grave concern regarding the allegations that have been made about the Trump Ocean Club Panama. In a report published in November 2017, the NGO Global Witness alleged that as many as ten units in the original Trump Ocean Club Panama were purchased, through intermediaries, by David Helmuth Murcia Guzman, a Colombian national who was later convicted in the United States for laundering drug money (and subsequently convicted in Colombia for money laundering and illegally receiving money). Due to the Trump Organization’s management and licensing fees from the Trump Ocean Club, the Trump Organization received a share of the proceeds of each unit sold; all in all, Global Witness estimates that the Trump Organization has received as much as $75,400,000 from the Trump Ocean Club. As you know, counter-narcotics remains a significant foreign policy priority for the United States, and success in this area is critical to our national security. In Fiscal Year 2017 alone, the United States Congress appropriated $533,200,000 in Western Hemisphere funds within the State Department’s International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement Account. It is our responsibility to ensure not only that these funds are effectively utilized, but also that the President and all other relevant government officials are free from any conflicts of interest that could inhibit their ability to faithfully execute U.S. foreign policy goals, including the eradication of the drug trade in our hemisphere. We look forward to your response, and we thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, ###
03.10.2018	POMONA, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in response to the fatal police shooting in Pomona, California. Torres spent more than 17 years working as a 9-1-1 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. "As the situation continues to unfold, my heart goes out to the fallen and wounded police officers of the Pomona Police Department. As the mother of a police officer, this tragedy hits especially close to home. I commend our neighboring police departments and my fellow 911 dispatchers for their swift, coordinated response as events unfolded throughout the night. The last thing we ever want to hear is that an officer needs help or is down. As a former Mayor of Pomona, I’m no stranger to these tragic incidents. I assure our emergency first responders that they are in the Inland Empire's thoughts, and I will do everything I can to ensure they have the support they need as they continue to work to keep our community safe." ###
02.28.2018	Torres made stops in Redlands, Ontario, Chino, and Pomona to ensure the needs of local residents are reflected in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) budget As Chair of the CHC Budget Task Force, Torres has been instrumental in crafting a budget that offers an alternative to the Trump Administration’s proposed Fiscal Year 2019 budget ONTARIO, CA – Last week, U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres traveled to several communities in and around the Inland Empire to ensure the needs of local residents are reflected in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) budget. As Chair of the CHC Budget Task Force, Torres has been instrumental in crafting a budget that offers an alternative to the harmful cuts in the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget. On her tour, Torres highlighted advancements made in veterans’ care, the need for greater investment in infrastructure and public safety upgrades, and a permanent solution for the nation’s Dreamers—priorities that align with the CHC’s mission to advance the Hispanic community and improve the lives of all citizens. In Redlands, Torres visited the new Ambulatory Care Center (ACC) within the VA Loma Linda Healthcare System. The ACC features equipment and technology that make healthcare more accessible and affordable for the area’s veterans. In addition to preventative care, the ACC also provides veterans with mental health care and resources to combat the opioid crisis. “It’s our responsibility to make sure that our veterans have access to quality and timely healthcare when they return home,” Torres said. “It’s great to see the strides the VA Loma Linda Healthcare System has made in providing the innovative and cutting-edge care and services California veterans deserve.” In Ontario, Torres met with representatives from the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) to discuss funding upgrades and relieving congestion along the 71 Freeway. She also held a public safety funding roundtable with fire and police chiefs in Chino to address concerns regarding the Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Grants program. The need to strengthen the capability of California’s 911 system to receive text messages and respond to cyberattacks was also discussed. “Upgrades to our infrastructure should go hand in hand with meeting our public safety needs. Unfortunately, the President’s infrastructure proposal makes it harder for my district and our state to fund these much-needed upgrades,” Torres said. “It was important to hear firsthand from local transportation officials and emergency responders about the challenges they face. We need commonsense policies that move us in the right direction towards modernizing our infrastructure and 911 systems.” At Cal Poly Pomona, Torres convened a meeting with more than 30 Dreamers representing area colleges, school administrators, and supporters to talk about the need for a permanent solution for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “I am inspired by the bravery and perserverance of our Inland Empire Dreamers. The Trump Administration has unfairly thrown the futures of these bright young people into a state of uncertainty,” Torres said. “I will keep fighting for a permanent legislative solution that protects our Dreamers from deportation and extends benefits to all Dreamers.” PHOTO CAPTION 1: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres views a project underway at the VA Loma Linda Healthcare System. Download here. PHOTO CAPTION 2: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres speaks with fire and police chiefs in Chino. Download here. PHOTO CAPTION 3: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres talks with Dreamers at Cal Poly Pomona. Download here. ###
02.22.2018	ONTARIO, CA – U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres met with superintendents from the Fontana Unified School District, Chaffey Joint Union High School District, Ontario-Montclair School District, Pomona Unified School District, and the Chino Valley Unified School District to discuss strategies to prevent gun violence in schools. In light of the tragic high school shooting in Parkland, Florida last week, Torres and the superintendents focused on the importance of providing students with support and encouraging community involvement. “As the nation continues to grapple with yet another tragic school shooting, we are struck by the courage and activism of the students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. The meetings with our local superintendents were an important opportunity to ensure that children throughout the district have the support and encouragement they need to take action in their own communities,” said Torres. “Our kids should feel empowered to make their voices heard and engage with their elected officials. This is a powerful moment to work alongside our superintendents and teachers as they proactively forge a path forward to enact change.” Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Last year, she introduced the Multiple Firearm Sales Reporting Modernization Act to require a federal firearms licensee to report the sale of two or more long guns, including semi-automatic rifles such as the AR-15 and the AK-47, within a five-day period. PHOTO CAPTION 1: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres discusses gun violence prevention efforts with Dr. Mat Holton, Superintendent of the Chaffey Joint Union High School District. Download here. PHOTO CAPTION 2: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres meets with Randal S. Bassett, Superintendent of the Fontana Unified School District. Download here. PHOTO CAPTION 3: U.S. Representative Norma J. Torres joins with James Hammond, Superintendent of the Ontario-Montclair School District, and his board of administrators. Download here. ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s budget proposal and infrastructure plan: “President Trump has managed to do the impossible—run the government like one of his many failing businesses. Far from balancing the budget, the Administration’s budget proposal drives us into trillions of dollars of debt for the foreseeable future. This is the latest attempt to chip away at the programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, that working families and seniors depend on. Our children and grandchildren shouldn’t be left to deal with the consequences of these harmful proposals. It’s clear that the President’s priorities do not line up with our values. “The American Society of Civil Engineers, Congress, and the American people all agree on the need to address our failing infrastructure immediately. While I’m encouraged that President has put forth an infrastructure plan, it unfairly shifts the burden of funding these massive projects to states and local communities. Incredibly, on the same day that the President proposes $200 billion in new federal transportation investments, his budget actually cuts over $210 billion in existing highway and airport funding. We need actual federal investments if we’re truly serious about improving our roads and bridges and expanding access to broadband—not smoke and mirrors. “The President’s proposals fail to address the real problems before us and lack the leadership, security, and stability the nation demands. I’ll keep pushing for policies that will modernize our infrastructure without hurting workers and ensure that America remains competitive in the 21st century economy.” Last month, Rep. Torres, co-chair of the 21st Century Infrastructure Task Force, joined with other members of the New Democrat Coalition to release a set of infrastructure priorities to increase long-term federal investments in all types of infrastructure. Torres spearheaded efforts to include the implementation of the numerous regulatory provisions passed in the 2015 FAST Act transportation bill in the Coalition’s priorities. Her proposal calls for incentivizing public and private entities to cooperate and create a “Highway of Things” at the beginning of proposed projects. These partners could invite utility companies to coordinate planning and share the costs of establishing services such as broadband, water, and electricity. ### Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on the budget caps agreement: “Many people following the budget process are frustrated and angry with Congress and President Trump—and for good reason. This is the time we should work in a bipartisan manner to deliver the question of who we are as a nation, and unfortunately, that is precisely why I voted no. The budget is the value statement by which we govern America. The agreement we voted on addresses some of the priorities that Democrats have been working towards. The thing is, it does so without considering the very people in our communities who stand to lose the most: young men and women who want only to achieve the American dream but stand to be deported from the only nation they know. “We cannot leave these 800,000 Dreamers behind or let up in our efforts to ensure the needs of hard-working middle-class families are met without asking them to shoulder the weight of an ever-growing national debt. It isn’t fair for our children to be left to find a way to pay back the nearly $2 trillion this Congress has added to the national debt with their tax breaks for millionaires. I call on Speaker Paul Ryan to bring a clean DACA bill to the floor for a vote immediately and demand that we get back to governing responsibly to pass a budget that benefits all of us as Americans.” ### Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on Republicans’ fifth short-term spending bill in Fiscal Year 2018: “This is the fifth short-term spending bill just five months into the fiscal year. Americans I know believe our great country shouldn’t be living on a week-to-week budget. The last time we were here, I warned that a 17-day extension would not be enough time to address the pressing domestic needs before us. Today, the Republican-controlled Congress proved me right. “Prioritizing spending on the national defense without equally strengthening investment in healthcare, public safety, and our economy is a disservice to our brave veterans and hard-working families. We need a long-term, bipartisan solution that keeps these priorities in mind. It’s the least the American people deserve.” ### Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
02.01.2018	Torres spearheaded efforts to include regulatory reforms that would encourage innovation and efficiency in the nation’s infrastructure in the Coalition’s priorities WASHINGTON, DC – Following the infrastructure proposal outlined by President Trump in his State of the Union address, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), co-chair of the 21st Century Infrastructure Task Force, joined with other members of the New Democrat Coalition to release a set of infrastructure priorities to increase long-term federal investments in all types of infrastructure. Torres spearheaded efforts to include the implementation of the numerous regulatory streamlining provisions passed in the 2015 FAST Act transportation bill in the Coalition’s priorities. She also called for the creation of regional partnerships between communities to accelerate project construction, and the adoption of new, innovative technologies to bolster safety and efficiency in the nation’s infrastructure system. “I’m encouraged that the President has come forward with his infrastructure proposal, but we need a serious, viable solution that doesn’t burden our states and local governments,” said Torres. “In any infrastructure deal moving forward, we need to be innovative with how we build and ensure that our federal rules and regulations aren’t making a difficult problem worse. The 21st Century Infrastructure Task Force plan moves us in the right direction towards modernizing our nation’s crumbling infrastructure.” Specifically, the Task Force outlined policy ideas under the following pillars: 1.Modernize America’s infrastructure 2.Create an infrastructure bank to finance projects 3.Create incentives for communities most in need of building and maintaining their infrastructure 4.Encourage innovation and reform Investment is vital to both the jobs created to build and maintain our infrastructure, as well as those supported and bolstered by a strong and healthy infrastructure system that facilitates the efficient movement of workers, goods, services, and ideas. Any new proposal must include new revenue, new financing, new funding, regulatory streamlining, and encourage life-cycle funding in innovative infrastructure projects that are built to last. The Task force is chaired by Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT). In addition to Torres, it is co-chaired by Reps. John Delaney (D-MD), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), and Stacey Plaskett (D-USVI). Torres has previously introduced legislation aimed at addressing the funding shortfall in the nation’s infrastructure spending. The Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act would help attract outside financing through of “Regional Infrastructure Accelerators,” multi-state organizations, local and state governments. The American Infrastructure Opportunity Bonds Act would set a trigger when the interest rate on Treasury bills and bonds drops below the rate of inflation to direct the Treasury to begin borrowing and to direct that new borrowing to be spent on infrastructure investments. ### Download Video Here
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “I was hoping to hear President Trump promise to unite our country. Instead, President Trump’s State of the Union address mirrored many of the harmful proposals we’ve seen in his first year in office. Rather than focus on policies that will grow our economy and improve the lives of all Americans, not just the wealthiest in our society, the President continues to seize on every opportunity to further divide our country, particularly with his approach to immigration. We’re in desperate need of real leadership, both at home and abroad like in Latin America and Asia. If the President won’t do it, then it’s up to Congress to fight for the promise of America and the values that truly make our nation great.” ### Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) is attending the State of the Union address with Cal Poly Pomona student veteran Sommarani “Mayra” Chan as her guest. Mayra’s family fled from the Khmer Rouge Genocide in Cambodia and sought protection in a Thailand refugee camp. In 1985, the family resettled in the U.S., where Mayra became a first-generation American. “It is an honor to have veteran and Cal Poly Pomona graduate student Mayra Chan as my guest to the State of the Union. Mayra’s incredible story and commitment serves as a shining example of the value and strength that immigrants, refugees, and their children bring to our nation,” said Rep. Torres. “I am grateful to be here. As a veteran and first generation college student, to be here representing something greater than myself is truly an honor. It is a once in a lifetime experience to be able to attend tonight’s State of the Union as a guest of Congresswoman Torres,” said Chan. From 2006 to 2014, Mayra served in the United States Army Reserve where she did one tour in Afghanistan and a humanitarian mission in Panama in 2009. During her time in Cal Poly Pomona, Mayra has kept busy by focusing her work on serving the student veteran community on campus as a student employee at the Veteran Resource Center. Mayra earned her Bachelor of Science degree in Food and Nutrition last year and is currently working on her Master of Science in Agriculture, concentrating her thesis research on combating obesity amongst the veteran community. Congresswoman Torres’ guest is a personification of the policies she continues to push for in Congress that ensure that the Inland Empire remains a welcoming place for all and that veterans have access to the tools they need to thrive when they return home. Download Picture Here: Media Contacts: Veronica.Bonilla@mail.house.gov Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov 202.225.6161
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement on Republicans’ fourth short-term spending resolution four months into Fiscal Year 2018: “I voted NO on this fourth short-term funding bill because an empty promise is not a commitment to stay and work through the budget. There’s no assurance that we won’t be here in a couple of weeks in the same spot when this temporary funding expires again. This 17-day extension leaves us with just four full working days to resolve so many outstanding issues for the American people—that is simply not enough time to get anything meaningful done. If Republicans truly cared about the American people and funding our government, then they would have cancelled all upcoming events and ordered members to stay and work on a bipartisan deal. “Any meaningful deal would include protections for Dreamers, a permanent solution for CHIP and the community health care clinics they depend on, funding for recovery efforts for natural disasters, and ensuring that our service members and veterans have the resources they need. Even Defense Secretary James Mattis has remarked on the harm that operating under continuing resolutions inflicts on the readiness of our military. Every single one of these issues require our full immediate attention and I stand ready and willing to work with my colleagues across the aisle to bring stability, strength, and security to our country." ### Media Contact: Edgar D. Rodríguez 202.225.6161 Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the House vote on H.R. 195, Continuing Appropriations Act: “This bill marks the fourth time we are voting on a continuing resolution; this is no way to govern. We are four months into the fiscal year and Republicans have yet to figure out how they are going to pay for their trillion-dollar tax cut. This is what happens when you prioritize millionaires over the rest of America. Make no mistake, this is not about giving us more time to figure out the best way to fund our government, it’s about this Republican Congress negating its responsibility to ensure the basic functionality of our government and harming our national security, children, and Dreamers in the process. “A few of the responsibilities this Republican-led government is refusing to address are: Reauthorizing funding for Community Health Centers that provide high-quality care for more than 27 million Americans every year, including over 170,000 working families, children, and seniors in my district. Investing in our infrastructure. The Inland Empire (IE) is the fastest growing economy in Southern California and the 20th best performing metropolitan region in the country, an investment in infrastructure could mean billions in economic output for the rest of the country and high-paying jobs for the IE. Providing disaster funding for all wildfire, landslide and hurricane devastated communities in California, Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Increasing access to vital resources for our veterans. The nearly 18,000 veterans in my district deserve better care and opportunities. Securing a legislative fix for our Dreamers. Approximately 10,800 Dreamers in my district would be eligible to receive protection under the Dream Act and would have the potential to contribute over $363 million to our GDP. Providing a permanent reauthorization for the Children’s Health Insurance Program—not a short-sighted 6-year solution—which nearly 60,000 children in my district depend on. “Other high-priority items this Congress still needs to address include funding to combat the opioid epidemic, lift budget caps to provide for a strong national defense, fund Medicare & Medicaid, and much more. But passing a short term budget every few weeks is the irresponsible way to do this. “We have been here before. We have voted on a continuing resolution three times now in hopes that Republicans will finally get their act together. I will not enable Republicans’ habit of playing politics with high-stake issues like our national security, healthcare, and so much more. If they want to continue down this destructive path, they have the votes to do so, but Democrats stand ready to work with them to help us move forward. Our country deserves better, my constituents deserve better. We need leadership from Republicans and this White House and so far we have not seen any.” ### Media Contact: Edgar D. Rodríguez 202.225.6161 Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the Prevent Crime and Terrorism Act of 2018 to limit the Trump administration’s plans to deregulate firearm exports. Under President Trump’s proposal, the export licensing process for firearms would no longer be controlled by the State Department, which has the on-the-ground expertise and relationships necessary to properly weigh the potential risks of firearm sales against any benefits, and would instead be controlled by Department of Commerce. “Our priority should be to make sure that firearms do not end up in the wrong hands,” said Rep. Torres. “My bill address concerns that the deregulation of firearms exports would increase the flow of firearms to terrorists and drug cartels, leading to increased levels of violence across the world and undermining U.S. national security.” Torres added, “The responsibility of the Department of Commerce is to promote job creation and economic growth, not assess national security threats. We should be more worried about protecting the safety and security of Americans abroad—our troops, diplomats, tourists, and businesspeople—than about increasing the profits of the gun industry.” The Prevent Crime and Terrorism Act of 2018 would maintain current regulations governing the exportation of firearms, flame throwers, grenade launchers, and other military equipment. Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, is an original co-sponsor of the bill, along with Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD), and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI). The bill is available HERE and a section-by-section analysis of the bill is available HERE. ### Rep. Torres is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where she serves on the Western Hemisphere and Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittees. Media Contact: Edgar D. Rodríguez 202.225.6161 Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the preliminary injunction issued by California’s Northern District Court on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals: “Yesterday’s ruling confirms what many of us have known for a long time: the Trump administration ended DACA for political reasons, not legal ones. In his meeting with Members of Congress yesterday, President Trump said, ‘because we’re going to get DACA done — I hope we’re going to get DACA done, and we’re going to all try very hard.’ If President Trump meant what he said, his administration should not appeal this ruling. Instead, he should build on this opportunity by working with Congress to advance a path to citizenship for DREAMers. Now is the time to get this done.” ### Rep. Torres is the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus, and is a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Media Contact: Edgar D. Rodríguez 202.225.6161 Edgar.Rodriguez@mail.house.gov
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in reaction to the termination of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for El Salvador: “I am disappointed by President Trump’s decision to upend the lives of nearly 200,000 Salvadorans with Temporary Protected Status and to set back the progress that has been made in Central America. As the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus, I have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to bring about improved security and prosperity in El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. With increased funding and a strong focus on anti-corruption efforts, we have begun to make progress. Even members of President Trump’s administration have recognized the importance of our work in Central America. Sadly, President Trump’s decision to end TPS for El Salvador could undermine what we have achieved. Most of the nearly 200,000 Salvadoran TPS holders have been away from El Salvador for more than twenty years; sending them back to a country with high unemployment and record levels of violence could lead to more destabilization and ultimately provoke another wave of migration. Salvadorans have 18 months before they lose their status, and TPS holders from many other countries are also in limbo. Now that President Trump has turned his back on TPS holders, Congress must act. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance legislation that provides meaningful protection to TPS holders. ### Rep. Torres is the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus. She is also the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ Foreign Policy and Latin America Task Force, and a member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere in the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In May, the House of Representatives approved H.Res 145, Rep. Torres’ resolution reaffirming congressional support for the fight against corruption in Central America.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement regarding votes on a four-week continuing resolution and supplemental disaster funding bill: “Congress has been kicking the can down the road for weeks now, failing to meet our responsibilities to the people of the United States. The attempts today to jam incomplete and inadequate funding packages through Congress further delay action on multiple urgent crises that our country is facing, and for that reason I voted no. "I have long held firm that Congress must not leave for the holiday season before we finish our work. However, instead of working in a bipartisan, constructive manner, Congress has decided to turn off the lights and go home. That means health care for 9 million children has been put into question, 122 DREAMers will continue to lose their protection every day, and those recovering from disasters in California, Puerto Rico, Florida, Texas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, won’t have the support they need. It is sickening that Republicans and the President celebrate taking health care away from America’s children in order to pay for their massive corporate tax cut. "I urge my colleagues to remain in Washington D.C for as long as it takes to ensure all Americans see this body finish its work, and I stand ready to and willing to work with Members on both sides of the aisle to fund the government, protect DREAMers, provide urgently needed health care for children, and help our communities recover from disasters." ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, 20 Democratic Members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee sent a letter to Secretary Tillerson regarding the political crisis in Honduras. The Members objected to the Trump administration’s anemic response to the many troubling reports of irregularities and human rights violations that have emerged since the November 26 election. They also called on the Department of State to support the efforts of the Organization of American States to advance a peaceful and democratic path forward. The letter was drafted by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Co-Chair of the Central America Caucus, who said that: “We are seeing a crisis of democracy in a country where we’ve invested a lot of money trying to build up institutions. The OAS says it cannot certify that the results are accurate. People are taking to the streets because they feel their voice was not heard at the ballot box, and Honduran security forces are killing them. This administration’s response has been pathetic, and it’s a sharp contrast with how the administration has reacted to flawed elections in other Latin American countries. What my colleagues and I are asking is for a consistent and principled commitment to democracy. Is that too much to ask for? The OAS Secretary General has called for new elections in Honduras and has appointed the former presidents of Bolivia and Guatemala to work toward new elections and a reconciliation in Honduras. The United States should fully support that effort.” The full text of the letter, along with the names of the signers, is below. Copy of the final letter can be found here. ### Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) is the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus and is a member of the Western Hemisphere subcommittee on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. LETTER TEXT Dear Secretary Tillerson, We write to express our deep concern regarding the post-election crisis in Honduras. Since the general elections that took place on November 26, election observation missions and the main opposition political parties have raised legitimate concerns about possible manipulation of the electoral process and have questioned the accuracy of the results. The Organization of American States electoral observation mission has indicated that, to date, Honduras’s Supreme Electoral Tribunal (TSE) has failed to address those concerns in a satisfactory manner. On December 17, after the TSE declared President Hernandez the winner, the Secretary General of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, called for new elections. The failure to reach consensus on a path forward has already led to violence and unrest. The Honduran people’s faith in their institutions was already weak before the election; the past weeks have further undermined that faith, and Hondurans have taken to the streets to express their anger and disillusionment. Most of the protests have been peaceful, but some have become violent. The government’s response has been disproportionate: security forces have used live bullets against protesters, and they have killed at least 23 people to date. Stability and democratic governance in Honduras are of great to concern to the United States. Congress has recognized, on a bipartisan basis, that addressing the root causes of migration from Central America, especially from Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador, is in the United States’ national interest. We have invested hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars in foreign assistance programs that seek to strengthen democratic governance, reduce violence, and expand economic opportunity in the region. Thus far, the State Department’s response to events in Honduras has been inadequate. The Department has called for protesters refrain from violence, but has failed to denounce the excessive use of force by Honduran security forces. Moreover, the Department’s decision to certify Honduras shortly after the election has helped to foster the perception that the United States is biased, and is either unwilling or unable to serve as an honest broker. Clearly, the State Department’s capacity to address the electoral crisis in Honduras is limited by the fact that the Trump administration has failed to nominate an Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs and an Ambassador to Honduras. But that is no excuse. In the past year, the United States has spoken out forcefully to express concerns about electoral processes in Venezuela, Nicaragua, Bolivia, and Cuba. The United States can and should speak out forcefully regarding the electoral process in Honduras. We urge you to take a stronger position in support of democracy in Honduras. Specifically, in addition to continuing to call for all sides to refrain from violence, the United States should denounce the excessive use of force by Honduras’s security forces. The United States should also support the efforts of the OAS and its Secretary General to advance a peaceful, democratic path forward in Honduras. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Norma J. Torres, Co-Chair, Central America Caucus Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member, Committee on Foreign Affairs Albio Sires, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere Brad Sherman, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific Gregory Meeks, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Gerald E. Connolly, Member of Congress Theodore Deutch, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on the Middle East and Africa Karen Bass, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations William R. Keating, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade David N. Cicililne, Member of Congress Ami Bera, Member of Congress Lois Frankel, Member of Congress Joaquin Castro, Member of Congress Robin L. Kelly, Member of Congress Brendan F. Boyle, Member of Congress Dina Titus, Member of Congress Bradley S. Schneider, Member of Congress Thomas R. Suozzi, Member of Congress Adriano Espaillat, Member of Congress Ted Lieu, Member of Congress James P. McGovern, Member of Congress
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35) released the following statement following the passage of her amendment to the National Landslide Preparedness Act. “Many don’t know that wildfire activity increases the risk of landslides and flooding,” said Torres. “My amendment is a small addition to the National Landslide Preparedness Act, which simply states that we should also address and study potential landslides in relation to wildfires. California has experienced a great deal of landslides that have crippled our infrastructure; from this year’s Mud Creek landslide to La Conchita’s 2005 mudslide that killed seven adults and three innocent children. By giving state and local governments the resources to identify burned areas that become susceptible to landslides post-wildfires, we can begin to make the necessary plans to stop the next catastrophe.” Wildfires severely damage forest canopy and vegetation, both of which hold the soil in place; this amendment will study and analyze these areas. This year alone, wildfires have damaged more than 15,000 structures, scorched over 234,000 acres of land, and have killed 45 people. Torres added, “As our brave first responders continue to work around the clock, it’s our responsibility to start thinking about the aftermath of wildfires to help prevent future loss of life and property.” Earlier this month, the Natural Resources Committee unanimously passed Rep. Torres’s amendment. Congresswoman Norma Torres currently serves as the Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources. Video of the address can be seen here and downloaded here. ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representative Norma J. Torres (CA-35), along with Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Co-Chair of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus and Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced legislation to upgrade our nation’s 9-1-1 call centers to meet the demands of rapidly changing communications technology. The Next Generation (NG) 9-1-1 Act of 2017 strengthens federal efforts to help state and local governments to transition to NG9-1-1 technology by providing new federal funding, technical assistance, and training, while ensuring 9-1-1 is kept under state and local control. “Our 9-1-1 call centers are the first point of contact for Americans in an emergency situation, but they rely on technology that has been in place since the time of the first 9-1-1 call 50 years ago,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain the public safety community has all the tools it needs to serve and protect our communities because in life-threatening situations, seconds matter. This legislation will help bring our 9-1-1 call centers into the 21st Century.” “In the wake of so many natural disasters this year, it’s clearer than ever that we need to upgrade our 9-1-1 systems to be more secure and resilient. Americans deserve access to better technology when they call 9-1-1—that means ensuring that 9-1-1 knows your location when you place a call at the very least. I’m proud that we’re introducing legislation that will help save lives and modernize our 9-1-1 centers,” Ranking Member Pallone said. “As someone who spent seventeen years as a 9-1-1 dispatcher, I know first-hand the demands and stress of the job,” Rep. Torres said. “Dispatchers must process powerful pleas for help and deliver the information in just seconds to our first responders. I’ll never forget my experience in the job – where I was asked to interpret callers’ information only from the limited information they could share over the phone. The transition to a new system won’t be easy, but NextGen 9-1-1 will provide our dispatchers with greater tools to save lives – tools I could have used to expedite help to those I was trying to help. The Next Generation (NG) 9-1-1 Act of 2017 will bridge the gap between what is needed and what is possible.” NG9-1-1 allows people to communicate with 9-1-1 call centers the same way they communicate with each other. When faced with an emergency, people will be able to send text messages, pictures, videos and other information captured by the devices we use today to 9-1-1 call centers, which currently rely on aging infrastructure and outdated technology. These call centers will be able to process and pass this information seamlessly to first responders across jurisdictions so they have the most accurate information about an emergency. Progress on 9-1-1 has been slow though, largely due to lack of funds and local resources. Earlier this year, Senator Nelson and Senator Klobuchar introduced the NG 9-1-1 Act in the Senate. With the introduction of the NG 9-1-1 Act in the House, Congress is one-step closer to expanding the federal NG9-1-1 grant program, establishing an advisory board to recommend updates to the definition of NG9-1-1, and providing assistance to NG9-1-1 systems to help them guard against cyberattacks. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (CA-35), Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) and Congressman Derek Kilmer (WA-06) hosted a press call with reporters on the impacts of the Republican tax plan on Indian Country today, Tuesday, December 19, 2017. Rep. Torres stated, “In his inauguration speech, the President stated that ‘what truly matters is not which party controls our government, but whether our government is controlled by the people…. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.’ Instead of honoring these words, the President and my Republican colleagues went to work around the clock on a bill that gives $1.5 TRILLION dollars to appease their wealthy donors and the President's real estate and corporate interests. The bill we voted on represents a broken promise to the forgotten citizens of this Nation. Among those forgotten citizens are our first peoples – Native Americans.” Earlier this month, Congresswoman Torres and Congressmen Kildee and Kilmer, along with 35 other Members of Congress, sent a letter to the U.S. Representatives and Senators serving on the conference committee concerning Indian Country. The letter urged the committee to recognize the unique sovereignty of tribal governments in regards to tax-exempt bonds, the Indian Adoption Tax Credit, Excise Tax Exemptions and Low-Income Housing Tax Credits. Congresswoman Norma Torres currently serves as the Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the subcommittee which oversees all matters regarding Native Americans. A copy of the letter and full list of Members who signed is below: Dear Chairman Hatch, Ranking Member Wyden, Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Neal: We write to you today with disappointment in the failure of Republicans to include tribal governments in either the House or the Senate versions of their tax bill. As the conference process proceeds, we urge you to consider the needs of Indian Country in the final bill. The federal tax code does not recognize the unique sovereignty of tribal governments and as a result, tribes do not enjoy the same benefits as state and local governments under the tax code. To correct this mistreatment of tribal governments in the tax code, Indian Country spent almost two years educating the House and the Senate on the need for their equitable tax treatment. The Senate had several opportunities, both in committee markups and through proposed floor amendments, to fix the issue of tribal taxation in the tax bill. Yet it inexplicably failed to do so. And now tribes are told that yet again, they must wait for some future work on tax reform. This is completely unacceptable. Indian Country has some of the poorest communities in our country. Tribal communities have long endured high levels of poverty and substandard housing, reduced employment opportunities and economic development, and tremendous infrastructure demands. Not addressing these issues in the tax code is wrong and unjust. We urge the Conference Committee include in its final bill the following provisions: 1. Parity for Tax-Exempt Bonds: As sovereign nations, tribal governments should possess the authority to use tax-exempt bonds the same as state and local governments. Right now, tribal governments are limited to using tax-exempt bond financing for “essential government functions.” But by preventing a tribe from utilizing tax-exempt bonds for economic development activities will only prevent much needed tribal infrastructure development and economic growth. 2. Parity for Indian Adoption Tax Credit: Under current tax law, tax credits for families that adopt special needs children are only available for adoptions in state courts, not in tribal courts. Tax credits should be available to families that adopt special needs children, regardless of the adoption venue. 3. Parity for Excise Tax Exemptions: Again, as sovereign nations, tribal governments should receive the same treatment as state and local governments for the various excise tax exemptions that exist in the tax code. 4. Increase Deployment of Low-Income Housing Tax Credits in Indian Country: The reconciled bill should treat tribes as states for these credit allocations. It should also create a tribal set-aside and allow Indian areas to be eligible for enhanced credits as significant levels of substandard housing exist throughout Indian Country. The undersigned Members request the conferees reconsider the failure to address the unique needs of Indian Country. It is vital that a tax bill that provides additional wealth to those that already have the most should also ensure that tribal governments can benefit from the supposed economic benefits that will result from its passage. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Pete Aguilar Nanette Diaz Barragán Anthony Brown Tony Cardenas Joaquin Castro Charlie Crist Debbie Dingell Eliot Engel Keith Ellison Tulsi Gabbard Ruben Gallego Raúl Grijalva Denny Heck Jared Huffman Pramila Jayapal Ro Khanna Ruben Kihuen Dan Kildee Ted Lieu Sander Levin Alan Lowenthal Ben Ray Lujan Michelle Lujan Grisham Betty McCollum Gwen Moore Grace Napolitano Frank Pallone Chellie Pingree Stacey Plaskett Jacky Rosen Raul Ruiz Kurt Schrader Bennie Thompson Dina Titus Norma Torres Debbie Wasserman Schultz Juan Vargas ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission vote on net neutrality: “The FCC’s vote on Thursday is an attack on small businesses and everyday consumers that simply cannot afford to pay higher prices for faster internet speeds. In a time when most people are beginning to use the internet as their main source of communication, we should be working to ensure that broadband companies do not take advantage of consumers. Republicans are quick to state that this will help increase accessibility by promoting competition among internet service providers, but how can that be true in a field controlled by a handful of telecom conglomerates whose only interest is to increase their profits? This is nothing more than a gift to multi-billion dollar companies at the expense of middle class families and small businesses like those in the heart of my district. Open access to the internet—free from over-pricing and intervention by internet service providers—is fundamental in ensuring fairness and equal access to information, education, innovation, and economic growth for all.” ###
12.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the Senate tax bill: “Republicans in the Senate just passed their latest toxic version of the tax bill. It’s unfathomable to me that the GOP has chosen to move forward with this bill when Americans overwhelmingly oppose it. This tax scam will raise taxes on millions of middle class families making less than $75K, while cutting taxes for corporations and the wealthy; increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion, while cutting Medicare & Medicaid; and, among others, will give new tax breaks to companies that ship American jobs overseas that could go to residents of the Inland Empire instead. The average income in my district is $57,159—I will not support a bill that doesn’t make economic sense for the Inland Empire, and I will vote NO when it comes before the House.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) introduced the Jobs for Tribes Act, a bill that will strengthen Indian Country’s ability to become more self-sufficient by providing urgently needed business and economic development assistance. Native Americans face barriers and challenges, such as lack of infrastructure and access to capital, which contribute to the high rates of poverty and unemployment. Aggravating these problems is the lack of parity in treatment of Indian tribes as governmental entities under federal tax and other regulatory laws which has blocked tribes’ ability to benefit from other investment incentives accorded to state and local governmental entities. The Jobs for Tribes Act would support Indian Country’s ability to become more self-reliant and tap into tribes’ entrepreneurial spirit by providing urgently needed business and economic development assistance to American Indian and Alaska Native communities, their enterprises and businesses. The legislation also requires the development of a strategy for the promotion and facilitation of increased trade between Native American tribes and indigenous peoples of the Western hemisphere. “The high rates of poverty and unemployment facing Native American communities are cause for unified action. This legislation will empower tribes and boost indigenous peoples ability to help themselves and their families prosper,” said Torres. “It’s time we come together to support commerce in Indian Country by backing them with the tools they need to tap into their entrepreneurial spirit and stimulate job creation. The National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development, National Congress of American Indians, Native American Contractors Association, Coalition of Large Tribes, United and South Eastern Tribes, and Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians all support the bill. Cole said, “Indian Country has been a critical part of our nation’s economy for years. Many tribes have had success in entrepreneurship and in businesses large and small. Providing economic and infrastructure assistance for tribal communities will help strengthen their ability to become self-sufficient and develop commercial growth. Native American-owned enterprises have contributed enormously to the American economy, and I am proud to support this legislation to help these businesses continue to flourish.” Congresswoman Norma Torres currently serves as Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the subcommittee which oversees all matters regarding Native Americans. Congressman Tom Cole Currently serves as the Co-Chair of the Native American Caucus. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) introduced Savanna’s Act, a bill named in honor of Savanna LaFontaine-Greywind, a 22-year old pregnant member of the Spirit Lake Tribe who was tragically murdered in August. The legislation addresses the disturbing increase in murdered and missing Native American women by closing the gap of information sharing between tribal, local, and federal law enforcement agencies. “The increasing crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous women is one that needs to be addressed with urgency and immediate action; their lives are no less valuable than any one of us and deserve to be protected. Improving data collection and fostering better cooperation between law enforcement agencies and tribes, will help prevent more tragedies from happening,” said Rep. Torres. “As a former first responder, I know how important it is to empower people in the front lines who are doing their best to keep our communities safe. It’s time we give local agencies and tribes the tools necessary to bring justice to the missing and murdered indigenous women and girls nationwide.” Native American women face a murder rate ten times higher than the national average, with eighty-four percent experiencing some form of violence in their lifetime. While the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 and the Tribal Law and Order Act have helped bring attention to the high rates of violence against Native women, there is still no reliable way of knowing how many Native women go missing each year because the databases that hold statistics of these cases are extremely outdated and in need of reform. Savanna’s Act aims to remove information sharing barriers in order to streamline coordination between tribes and federal agencies to better protect Native women and girls at risk. Rep. Cole said, “I am proud to join my colleagues Representatives Torres and Senator Heitkamp to introduce Savanna’s Act, which will help cut through the red tape and improve communications between tribal, local and federal law enforcement agencies. Native American women in tribal communities across the nation unfortunately face higher rates of murder and violence, and this legislation will help alleviate the delays and barriers to information when addressing this very pressing issue. We must do all that we can to protect Native women and provide our agencies with the tools they need to do so.” The legislation is an important and necessary step toward addressing the exploitation of Native women and girls. The National Congress of American Indians, National Indian Education Association, and United and South Eastern Tribes support the bill. Senator Heitkamp expressed her support for the companion legislation, “The crisis of missing and murdered indigenous women is little known outside of Indian Country – but we’re fighting to increase awareness and implement solutions to bring victims justice and keep women and girls safe. I’m encouraged that Savanna’s Act has already received strong bipartisan support and a hearing in the U.S. Senate, and today Representatives Norma Torres and Tom Cole are taking important action by introducing this legislation in the House. We’ll keep fighting on a bipartisan basis to make the voices and needs of our Native communities heard, and to keep our women and girls safe.” Congresswoman Norma Torres currently serves as Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the subcommittee which oversees all matters regarding Native Americans. Congressman Tom Cole currently serves as the Co-Chair of the Native American Caucus. Companion legislation to Savanna’s Act has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) where it is currently before the Committee on Indian Affairs. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the recent elections in Honduras: “I am deeply troubled by the developing situation in Honduras. International elections observers have raised serious concerns about the unreasonable and unprecedented delays in the publication of results. It is essential that Honduras’ Supreme Electoral Tribunal make results available in a more transparent and timely manner. I urge all parties, including the candidates and their supporters, as well as Honduran security forces, to refrain from any acts of violence. Likewise, I urge the Honduran authorities to refrain from any actions that would limit the ability of citizens to freely assemble and express their views in a peaceful manner. The Honduran people have chosen their next president; we must ensure that their wishes are honored, regardless of which candidate has won the election.” Rep. Torres is the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus, and is a member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere in the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA) introduced the GI Bill Distance Learning Improvement Act, in honor of Veterans Day. This legislation looks to assist veterans’ pursuit of higher education following their military service by providing additional resources to support distance learning. The Post-9/11 Veterans’ Educational Assistance Act of 2008, commonly known as the Post 9/11 GI Bill, improved access to higher education for veterans; however the law did not include all of the tools that veterans need to enroll in online programs – either for a degree or workforce certification. The GI Bill Distance Learning Improvement Act would allow veterans to use additional benefits on a one-time purchase of a computer to complete distance learning classes. “I’ve spoken with businesses in our communities who simply can’t find enough well trained workers to hire,” said Torres. “Many of the certifications needed for advanced manufacturing jobs in the Inland Empire are available through distance learning, but without computer access, some veterans may be unable to take advantage of these GI Bill benefits. My bill will update the Post 9/11 GI Bill opportunities to be more in line with educational, training, and workforce needs.” Under the Post 9/11 GI Bill, veterans enrolled in distance learning receive half the educational benefits compared to those enrolled in-residence. While they can receive a stipend for books and supplies, the stipend is not sufficient to cover a computer in addition to the necessary books and supplies. The GI Bill Distance Learning Improvement Act empowers the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to use existing resources to give veterans additional flexibility they need to complete their education. “Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country already. Making this simple fix to the Post 9/11 GI Bill will make it possible for many veterans to access a computer and complete the training and education necessary to find a good paying job,” added Torres. Veterans have increasingly turned to distance learning programs following their military service. According to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), since 2003 the number of students taking at least one online course has grown at a rate greater than that of the overall higher education student body. ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in reaction to the Department of Homeland Security’s refusal to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for citizens of Nicaragua and its failure to make a determination with regard to TPS for Honduran nationals: “I am deeply disappointed by the Department of Homeland Security’s decision to remove protection from more than two thousand Nicaraguan nationals, as well as the failure to commit to extending TPS for the 57,000 Hondurans who are currently protected. Many of the TPS holders from Nicaragua and Honduras have been working and living here for more than a decade. They are law-abiding, upstanding members of our communities, who have undergone repeated vetting and background checks. They pay taxes and contribute to social security. Many have businesses and property; asking them to return to their home country and start a new life in a matter of twelve months is impractical, as well as unfair. Ending TPS designations would cause significant harm, not only to the TPS holders themselves, but also to the thousands of families, businesses, and churches that depend on them. Furthermore, it would undermine the long-term security interests of the United States in Central America, where most TPS holders are from. We would then see the impacts at our own borders. There is no sound policy reason for kicking these people out of our country. Unfortunately, the Trump administration has chosen to ignore reason and reality. The Nicaraguan TPS holders who just lost protection today have twelve months before they lose their protection; the Honduran TPS holders will be in limbo for the next six months as they await DHS’ final decision. It is now clearer than ever: we cannot rely on this administration to extend the remaining TPS designations. Congress must act swiftly to provide protection for TPS holders. The clock is ticking. ### (Español) DECLARACIÓN DE CONGRESISTA NORMA TORRES SOBRE TPS PARA NICARAGUA Y HONDURAS WASHINGTON, D.C.—La congresista Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) emitió la siguiente declaración en reacción a la decisión del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS, por sus siglas en inglés) sobre el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS, por sus siglas en inglés) para los ciudadanos de Nicaragua y Honduras: "Estoy profundamente decepcionada por la decisión del DHS de eliminar la protección de más de dos mil nicaragüenses, así como su rechazo de comprometerse a extender el TPS a los 57.000 hondureños que están actualmente protegidos. Muchos de los beneficiarios de TPS provenientes de Nicaragua y Honduras han estado trabajando y viviendo aquí por más de una década. Son respetuosos de la ley, miembros honrados de nuestras comunidades, que han sido aprobadas varias veces y sometidos a repetidos verificaciones de antecedentes. Pagan impuestos y contribuyen a la seguridad social. Varios tienen negocios y propiedades; pedirles que regresen a su país de origen y comienzan una vida nueva en cuestión de doce meses no es práctico ni justo. Terminar las designaciones de TPS causaría un daño significativo, no solamente a las personas protegidas por TPS, sino también a las miles de familias, empresas e iglesias que dependen de ellas. Además, a largo plazo, socavaría los intereses de seguridad de los Estados Unidos en América Central, de donde provienen la mayoría de los titulares de TPS. Entonces veríamos los impactos en nuestras propias fronteras. No hay una razón sensata, desde una perspectiva de las políticas públicas, para expulsar a estas personas de nuestro país. Desafortunadamente, el gobierno de Trump ha elegido ignorar la razón y la realidad. Los nicaragüenses que acaban de perder la protección, ahora tienen solamente doce meses para salir del país; los hondureños con TPS estarán en el limbo por los próximos seis meses, mientras esperan la decisión final del DHS. Ahora está más claro que nunca: no podemos confiar en que esta administración amplíe las designaciones restantes de TPS. El Congreso debe actuar rápidamente para brindar protección a las personas protegidas por TPS. El reloj está corriendo.” ###
10.30.2017	ONTARIO, CA –Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) participated in a bipartisan Homeland Security Committee field hearing at the Port of Los Angeles titled “Examining Physical Security and Cybersecurity at our Nation’s Ports.” This hearing is being held on the heels of last week’s successful passage of H.R. 3101, Torres’ Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2017 in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Today’s hearing highlighted the crucial role that cybersecurity plays in the overall security of our ports,” said Torres. “The ports are incredibly important to my district and the Inland Empire, and this hearing once again emphasized the importance of addressing cyber threats to protect our country’s critical information and infrastructure. A cyber-attack on our ports could have a huge economic impact nationwide. A recent study estimated that a shutdown at the Ports of Los Angeles and Long beach would cost the local economy $1 billion per day. Now is the time to take proactive steps and protect our economic assets, we cannot afford to wait until it’s too late.” Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (MS-2) traveled to Los Angeles to chair the hearing, and were also joined by Reps. Lowenthal, Diaz Barragan, Correa, Hunter, Estes and Rohrabacher. Testimony was provided by Rear Admiral Todd A. Sokalzuk, Commander of the Eleventh Coast Guard District, Carlos C. Martel, with the Los Angeles Field Office of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Eugene D. Seroka, Executive Director for The Port of Los Angeles, Mario Cordero, Executive Director for The Port of Long Beach, and Ray Familathe, International Vice-President for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. ###
10.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Norma Torres (D-Pomona) announced that she is traveling to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to survey the damage and recovery efforts from Hurricane Maria on a delegation with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) and House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05). Torres is the Ranking Member of the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee of the Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over all matters regarding insular areas of the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “It has been over a month since Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and it is unacceptable that our fellow Americans continue to face a humanitarian crisis,” said Torres. “I am traveling to the Islands to see firsthand how the relief efforts are progressing and what additional resources are needed. We also must scrutinize the Federal Government’s rebuilding effort to make sure we are preparing communities to withstand similar storms in the future.” The delegation will travel to St. Croix, Las Piedras, and the interior of Puerto Rico where they will view hospitals damaged by the hurricane and meet with affected residents. Also joining the delegation are Reps. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Jeff Denham (CA-10), and Anthony Brown (MD-04). In September, Torres led a letter to Chairman Rob Bishop and signed by all Democrats on the Natural Resources Committee calling for an oversight hearing of the relief and recovery efforts on the Islands. To date, no hearing has been held. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 3101, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2017. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives took swift action and passed my legislation, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act,” said Torres. “The June cyber-attack that impacted the Port of Los Angeles revealed serious vulnerabilities in our maritime security, and we must address these weaknesses before it is too late.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports through several measures: setting standards for reporting, providing guidance to ports, bringing port representatives to the table for future planning, and modernizing how the Coast Guard addresses cyber threats. Torres introduced the legislation following the NotPetya worm attack, which shutdown the biggest terminal at the port of Los Angeles. According to the National Retail Federation, a longer shutdown of two weeks for the entire LA/Long Beach port complex could mean upwards of $50 billion in reduced economic output and impact 500,000 jobs. “There is unfortunately little coordination between port landlords and tenants in addressing cyber threats, and federal agencies have only recently started to consider the impact that a cyber-attack could pose to our maritime infrastructure. In addition, port operators do not have the necessary support from the federal government for reporting threats. This legislation will ensure the necessary planning and coordination is in place to protect US ports which move more than $1.3 trillion in cargo every day. Disruptions mean higher prices and slower service for every American,” Torres added. H.R. 3101, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2017, was introduced by Rep. Torres in the days following the attack on the Port of Los Angeles on June 28, 2017 and voted favorably out of the Homeland Security Committee on September 7, 2017. The legislation is supported by the Port of Los Angeles, Congressional PORTS Caucus Chairs, and it is endorsed by the Maritime & Port Information Sharing & Analysis Organization. The legislation now goes to the Senate, where Torres has been actively working with Senate colleagues to ensure a quick passage into law. ###
10.20.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) concluded her Disaster Preparedness week. The week’s events included two successful earthquake preparedness seminars, participating in the Great California Shakeout at Don Lugo High School in Chino, a meeting with local city managers to discuss fire training, and a roundtable with local police and fire chiefs to discuss coordinated preparation and response plans in the case of a disaster. “I want to thank everyone who participated in this disaster preparedness week, from the constituents who attended our events to the presenters who shared information on available resources,” said Torres. “Throughout the week, I was impressed with the willingness of our local, state, and federal governments to work together to get the word out to our constituents. As we’ve seen in recent natural disasters, collaboration across all levels of government and agencies is key to an effective response.” Constituents who were not able to attend the events or have questions about available disaster preparation resources should contact the Congresswoman’s Ontario office: 909-481-6474 or visit https://torres.house.gov/disaster-preparedness-resources. ###
10.18.2017	FONTANA, CA—Yesterday, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), participated in the Inland Empire DACA Club Conference at Chaffey College. At the event, she spoke about her work to fight for the passage of the Dream Act, and pledged her continued support. She also urged Dreamers and their allies to continue their grassroots efforts to build on the widespread popular support for the Dream Act. “I am deeply inspired by the important work of the Inland Empire DACA Clubs,” said Rep. Torres. “The Dreamers in the Inland Empire are some of the bravest and most dedicated people I have ever met. I am so proud of them. I told the DREAMers that I am committed to doing everything in my power to bring the DREAM Act across the finish line. These young Americans should not have to wait any longer: they deserve protection from deportation and a path to citizenship now.” Participants in the Conference included Government Relations Manager of Chaffey College, Lorena Corona, MT. SAC Dreamers Club, Chaffey College Dreamers Club, San Bernardino Valley College (SBVC) Dreamers Club, SBVC Dreamers Resources Center, Cal Poly Pomona Dreamers Club, and the CSUSB Dreamers Resource Center. Rep. Torres is a cosponsor of H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill that would provide a path to citizenship for young immigrants who were brought here as children. She is also one of 195 Members of the House of Representatives to have signed a “discharge petition” in support of the DREAM Act; if a majority of Representatives sign the discharge petition, the bill will be brought to the floor of the House for a vote. Previously, she introduced H.R. 1487, additional legislation to protect DREAMers from deportation. ###
10.16.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced the launch of her Disaster Preparedness Week, which will include a series of events to highlight earthquake preparedness, multiple meetings with first responders and elected officials to discuss effective, coordinated emergency response strategies, and taking part in the Great Shakeout at a local high school. “Although the planning for my Disaster Preparedness week has been in the works for months, these events are unfortunately extremely timely given the disasters our country has recently seen,” said Torres. ”The hurricanes and flooding in Gulf Coast states and Puerto Rico, and the devastating wildfires in Northern California must serve as a reminder that while we cannot control these events, we can plan and prepare for when they do occur. I encourage families in the Inland Empire to evaluate their fire escape plan, put together a first aid and earthquake kit, make sure they have an emergency recovery plan and check their smoke detectors.” “Every disaster is local, and individuals need to take personal control of their own preparedness, as well as help within their workplace and community,” said Dr. Kenneth Hudnut, Science Advisor for Risk Reduction at the United States Geological Survey. “Recent fires, storms and earthquakes all remind us how important it is to be self-reliant and help others when disaster strikes. Because it’s not if, it’s when. The Inland Empire should take notice of this Disaster Preparedness Week and make sure you and your neighbors are prepared.” “Practice matters!” said Dr. Joan E. Fryxell, Professor of Geology at California State University San Bernardino. “Thank you Congresswoman Torres for underscoring the need to be prepared. Earthquakes occur without warning and when they do, it’s already too late to prepare. Water, food, shelter, and plan for pets must be ready in advance. Preparation makes you faster, and makes your response work, even when you may be scared.” Torres’ Disaster Preparedness Week begins on Monday, October 16th with a bilingual Seminar on Earthquake Preparedness in Rialto. It includes a similar seminar in Pomona, a meeting with City Managers to discuss and share ideas regarding their disaster response plans, and a coordination meeting with Local Fire and Police Chiefs. The Congresswoman will also take part in the Great Shakeout Thursday morning with local high school students. Press that are interested in attending any of these events should email Dara.Cohen@mail.house.gov for more information. ###
10.14.2017	FONTANA, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) was joined by U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta for a tour of the Chaffey College InTech Center (Industrial and Technical Learning Center) to see how federal grants can jumpstart public-private workforce development programs. Numerous instructors at the InTech Center are full-time CSI employees that train students to industry standards. With programs tailored to the Inland Empire labor market, InTech in Fontana is closing the skills gap for regional businesses, especially manufacturers. Chaffey College and the Inland Empire Regional Training Consortium (IERTC) received a $15 million grant from the Department of Labor in 2014, which resulted in the 2016 opening of the InTech Center. This successful public-private partnership between Chaffey College and California Steel Industries has increased the number of well-trained manufacturing craft workers to fill the immediate and future needs of manufacturing employers. In addition to encouraging employees to be part-time trainers, California Steel Industries also provided the site for the InTech Center at no charge. “The Inland Empire is one of the best places to make things in America because of our skilled workforce, and our commitment to linking job training to the workforce needs of today and tomorrow,” said Torres. “It’s important for the Secretary to understand the positive contribution that the Department of Labor has made to the Inland Empire and how the InTech model works to harness the power of cooperation between educators, industry, and local leaders.” Joining Rep. Torres for the tour were Representative Pete Aguilar and Secretary Acosta, who was in the Inland Empire to see the success stories of Department of Labor grants and the growth this funding has fostered around the country. The InTech Center is able to offer no cost training, thanks to assistance from the Department of Labor. Also attending the tour was President and CEO of California Steel Industries, Marcelo Rodrigues, Executive VP Brett Guge, and Dr. Eric Bishop from Chaffey College. “I’m honored to be able to show Secretary Acosta the amazing work the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) grant had in creating this site,” Torres continued. “The Inland Empire is leading Southern California in job growth due to forward thinking ideas like the InTech Learning Center.” Prior to the tour, the group held a roundtable to discuss effective job training procedures, the impact the center has had on the region, lessons learned from the center, and how the center prepares students for a career, not just a job. Based on the success of the InTech Learning Center, Rep. Torres introduced H.R.2867, the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act would authorize the Secretary of Labor to initiate pilot projects between local community colleges, state colleges, and workforce investment boards and advanced manufacturers in order to facilitate education and training programs in the field of advanced manufacturing. In August, Torres embarked on her “Made in the 35th Tour,” which included 15 site visits and meetings with manufacturers across 6 cities in the 35th Congressional District. With this tour, Torres drew attention to the thriving manufacturing industry in the Inland Empire. Torres is also a member of the House Manufacturing Caucus. ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s latest threat to abandon the Puerto Rico recovery effort: “The threats against Puerto Rico by President Trump this morning are galling, and fail the basic test of who we are as Americans. We do not abandon Americans during their time in need – be it on the battlefield or following a natural disaster. The President may not understand the devastation and suffering of Americans in Puerto Rico, but the federal role in rebuilding the island is not close to complete. Today, Congress will vote on a disaster assistance package to assist the island, but this rebuilding effort will take years, not months. I urge the President to recognize and embrace his crucial role in the lifesaving efforts on the island so that more lives are not lost.” ###
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL), and Eliot L. Engel (D-NY) introduced the Multiple Firearm Sales Reporting Modernization Act. If approved by Congress and passed into law, the bill would require a federal firearms licensee to report the sale of two or more long guns, including semi-automatic rifles such as the AR-15 and the AK-47, within a five-day period. This bill’s introduction comes less than two weeks after the mass shooting in Las Vegas. The shooter, Stephen Paddock, possessed an arsenal of deadly firearms, including a number of semi-automatic rifles. However, because of a loophole in existing reporting requirements, his purchases never came to the attention of law enforcement agencies. “This bill is a long-overdue update.” said Rep. Torres. “Our law enforcement agencies need to know if anyone is stocking up on AR-15s and AK-47s. The multiple sales reporting provision that is already on the books has helped our law enforcement go after handgun trafficking rings across the country. There is simply no reason why we should exempt semi-automatic rifles from that provision.” “Too often after tragedies like Las Vegas, we ask why someone didn’t see this coming,” said Rep. Engel. “ATF is able to track the sale of handguns, but extending that to all firearms is an important first step to address the gun violence crisis in this country.” “Each day more innocent lives are claimed, and more families are devastated by senseless gun violence,” said Rep. Schneider. “It’s outrageous that long guns such as AR-15s are exempt from the reporting requirements that apply when someone purchases multiple handguns. This bill is a commonsense update to apply the same rules to all firearm purchases.” A long-standing provision in the federal code requires gun dealers to file a report to law enforcement when two or more handguns or pistols are purchased in a five-day period. This provision dates back to the time when lawmakers and citizens were principally concerned about crime and violence involving handguns. Since then, however, semi-automatic rifles such as the AR-15 and the AK-47 have become significantly more prevalent on America’s streets and have emerged as the weapons of choice for drug cartels in Mexico. ###
10.10.2017	Tijuana, Mexico – Today, Rep. Norma Torres traveled to Mexico to meet with deported U.S. veterans to understand and address the barriers that prevent them from accessing the veterans benefits earned through service to our country. The visit to the Deported Veterans Support House in Tijuana, Mexico, revealed significant opportunities for the Department of Veterans’ Affairs and Congress to work together to improve the lives of those who served. “It is heartbreaking that veterans, who have given so much to our country must fight and struggle to access the medical care they are entitled to receive,” said Rep. Torres. “These deported veterans find themselves eligible for care, but prohibited from accessing it. If we truly believe in leaving no man behind, we must make sure Veterans can access the healthcare benefits earned while serving in our military. We can and must do better.” While military service opens a pathway to citizenship for non-citizens, not all service members complete the complex application process. It is estimated that roughly 1,400 veterans have been deported in recent years. “I’ve been working with one veteran in particular from our very own community who has had his life turned upside since being deported to Tijuana,” added Rep. Torres. “Just two months after arriving in Mexico, this veteran was robbed, beaten, and left with a broken hip. Now 72, and in need of urgent medical care, he is unable to access VA healthcare services, and is in dire need of help.” The goal of this congressional delegation visit was to learn more about the difficulties for deported veterans in obtaining medical care through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The delegation also focused on making it easier for deported veterans to receive the disability benefits they are owed. “Any veteran who serves this nation honorably is eligible and entitled to the benefits they were promised, regardless of their citizenship,” said Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA), vice ranking member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “Today we discovered significant opportunities for the Department of Veterans’ Affairs and Congress to work together to address the barriers that separate deported veterans from the benefits they earned.” The congressional delegation, led by Takano, also included Reps. Lou Correa (D-CA), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), and Gregorio Sablan (D-MP).
09.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member Norma Torres of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native affairs released a letter to Chairman Bishop, led by Torres and signed by all nineteen Democrats on the Natural Resources Committee, requesting an oversight hearing on the Trump administration’s efforts to address the growing crisis in Puerto Rico. The letter outlines the urgent need to help ensure our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI) are receiving urgent hurricane recovery and relief support. In addition to all Natural Resources Committee Democrats, the letter was also signed by Representative Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY). "I'm proud to be leading this effort to request an oversight hearing on the response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.” said Rep. Torres. “I remain steadfast in support of efforts to speed up delivery of the resources and supplies that Puerto Rico needs after this devastating storm. Making sure that the relief and rebuilding effort are moving forward is a first step towards a successful recovery for the Island, its people and its economy. Once we have addressed the immediate devastation on the island and the safety of the three million Americans, we must be vigilant in our oversight to prevent the waste and abuse of precious resources. The rebuilding of Puerto Rico will take years, not months, and we must recognize that storms of this magnitude will only become more common – requiring that this rebuilding effort prepare Puerto Rico for future category-five storms." The letter highlights that it’s been more than a week since Hurricane Maria hit the islands of Puerto Rico and USVI and many people have been left without electricity, food and clean water supplies, and have limited cell phone service. According to recent reports, nearly half of Puerto Rico’s 3.4 million residents still don’t have access to clean drinking water. The Ranking Members believe this humanitarian crisis affecting millions of U.S. citizens should be prioritized above all other Committee business and elevated to a top priority: “… [T]he Natural Resources committee has broad jurisdiction over all matters regarding the insular areas of the United States, our members are often looked to for answers regarding the federal government’s efforts to assist the people of the Virgin Island and Puerto Rico in securing the help they need in this time of crisis. Accordingly, it is appropriate that we exercise our authority in this regard, to hear from officials of the Trump administration, in a hearing, on the sufficiency of their efforts to respond to the crises in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.” As the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native Affairs Rep. Torres has been highly engaged on matters of importance to insular areas and territories such as Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Rep. Torres has served a constructive leadership role on the Subcommittee as Congress has sought to assist Puerto Rico in addressing its economic crisis. The full letter is available at: http://bit.ly/2furkVc. ###
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35) joined dozens of House Democrats in signing a petition to force a vote on the bipartisan DREAM Act. If the petition is signed by a majority of Members, the House would have to take a vote on this legislation, which would offer a path to citizenship for young immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. “President Trump has put in jeopardy the hopes and dreams of hard-working young immigrants.” said Rep. Torres. “Now Congress must act to protect those 800,000 young men and women, who bravely came out of the shadows to sign up for the DACA program. I urge each and every one of my colleagues to sign this discharge petition and bring the DREAM Act to the floor. ” Rep. Torres has been a strong and vocal supporter of the effort to bring peace of mind to young DREAMers who are living in fear because of President Trump’s dangerous decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which protected them against deportation. Torres has met with DREAMers from the 35th District and participated in events in the community calling attention to the unique challenges they face, including the many who know no other home than the United States. H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act, is bipartisan, bicameral legislation which would permanently protect DREAMers from deportation. It was originally introduced by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) on July 26. Rep. Torres is a cosponsor of the bill. In addition to cosponsoring the DREAM Act, Torres has introduced the Dreamer Protection Act (H.R. 1487), and attempted to block funding and prevent the deportation of Dreamers. Residents of the 35th congressional district, which includes the cities of Bloomington, Chino, Fontana, Montclair, Ontario, Pomona, and Rialto, should call Rep. Torres’s Ontario Office at (909) 481-6474 with any questions or concerns. They can also reach her office through a 24 hour immigration hotline should they need help outside of regular hours at (909) 767-7038. ###
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35) issued the following statement on the Republican Senate Healthcare proposal by Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA). “The latest healthcare repeal legislation the Senate is attempting to pass is the worst possible proposal for California. This dangerous legislation essentially robs hundreds of billions of dollars from Californians’ healthcare services, while removing protections for those with preexisting conditions, eliminating essential health benefits, and reinstating lifetime and annual limits on healthcare. Unbelievably, this latest version of Trumpcare makes Californians pick up the tab for other states,” said Rep. Torres. “Without any question – this legislation will make healthcare more expensive for those in the communities I represent, while allowing the healthcare we pay for to cover less. I strongly oppose this legislation should it come to the House for a vote, and I urge my Senate colleagues to return to the bipartisan negotiations that were ongoing to find common sense solutions that lower healthcare costs and improve access to lifesaving care,” Torres added. ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined in sending a letter to Richard F. Smith, Chairman and CEO of Equifax, expressing concern and demanding answers about the recent massive security breach and the company’s troubling response. “Millions of consumers place their trust in the credit bureaus and their handling of massive amounts of personal financial information,” said Torres. “A breach of this magnitude is already unacceptable, but the failure to notify consumers in a timely manner followed by the questionable actions of Equifax executives making massive profits selling their shares before the information went public is deeply troubling.” The letter, signed by Torres and 36 Members of Congress, asks Smith to explain why the company waited six weeks after the security breach was discovered to notify the public, a decision which prevented consumers from taking immediate action to protect their accounts. The Members also raise questions as to Equifax’s claims that the three senior executives, including the Chief Financial Officer, who sold their Equifax shares for a combined $1.8 million prior to the breach going public, were not aware of the breach at the time. “The American people deserve answers, and they deserve accountability, but in the meantime, they must remain vigilant over their accounts,” continued Torres. “I encourage my constituents to take the necessary steps to protect their personal information and be especially mindful of unscrupulous actors seeking to take advantage of vulnerable consumers during this time.” Consumers are encouraged to visit https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/blog/2017/09/equifax-data-breach-what-do for information about actions they can take if they were impacted by this breach. The full text of the letter can be found below and a pdf can be found HERE. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Richard F. Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Equifax 1550 Peachtree Street NE Atlanta, GA 30309 Dear Mr. Smith: We write regarding the data breach at Equifax. As one of the three major U.S. credit bureaus, Equifax hosts the sensitive personal information of millions of Americans, such as Social Security numbers, birth dates, and driver’s license numbers. On September 7, 2017, Equifax announced its computer systems had been breached between mid-May and July of this year. Although the data breach was discovered on July 29, Equifax waited six weeks before informing the public. The delay may have further exposed affected consumers by not allowing people to pursue mitigative measures as soon as possible. Equifax has an obligation to safeguard the sensitive information of consumers and notify individuals in a timely manner when their information has been compromised. Reports indicate hackers utilized a vulnerability on the Equifax website to obtain the sensitive information of up to 143 million Americans – more than half of the country. Per news reports, the credit card information of 209,000 Americans was compromised. Please explain what factors affected Equifax’s decision to delay the announcement of the intrusion. Also of concern, three senior Equifax executives sold company shares worth a combined $1.8 million a few days after discovery of the breach but before the public was notified of the cyberattack. Equifax has alleged the senior executives were unaware of the breach. If this statement is true, why were the three individuals – including the Chief Financial Officer – not notified given their prominent role within the company? We are troubled by the wide scope of this data breach and Equifax’s response to this serious matter. Due to this cyber incident, our constituents are potentially exposed to criminal activity, such as identify theft. Therefore, as representatives for many of those affected by the breach, we respectively request a detailed response to our concerns. Sincerely,
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced the HUD Manufactured Housing Modernization Act of 2017, a bill to increase the availability of affordable housing by modernizing outdated regulations so they include new manufactured housing options. “With housing prices rising in the Inland Empire and around the country, working families are finding the American Dream further and further out of reach,” said Torres. “Manufactured housing can provide modern, well-built affordable housing options that are nearly indistinguishable from site-built housing, yet current regulations ignore manufactured housing as a viable solution. My bill would bring local planning for affordable housing and community development into the 21st century and ensure our communities are considering all viable options to make housing affordable and accessible.” The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has attempted to promote affordable housing options in communities through grants and economic development programs as part of Consolidated Planning. However, these programs have ignored manufactured housing as a viable, targeted solution for certain communities. Despite outdated stereotypes, modern, well-built, and maintained manufactured housing options can be built in a fraction of the time and at far lower cost – while producing 40 percent less waste than traditional housing options. In addition, modern manufactured housing can actually save homeowners more than 25 percent on total heating and cooling costs. The HUD Manufactured Housing Modernization Act of 2017 directs HUD to update their Consolidated Planning Guidance to states and local jurisdictions to simply consider manufactured housing as an option. “We are thrilled to support Rep. Torres’s HUD Manufactured Housing Modernization Act of 2017. When communities and states draw up their consolidated plans for the use of federal dollars, too often they don’t get a full picture of local affordable housing,” said Doug Ryan, Director, Affordable Homeownership, Prosperity Now. “By requiring that localities and states include manufactured homes, the largest type of unsubsidized housing in the U.S., this legislation would offer another tool to local leaders as they address the affordable housing crises in their communities.” A summary and full text of the legislation will be available HERE. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment offered by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) increasing funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), a program to help American manufacturers increase exports. “Time after time during my recent ‘Made in the 35th’ manufacturing tour, business owners told me how difficult it is to compete with China and how they face an unfair playing field when it comes to the support other countries provide their manufacturers,” said Torres. “My amendment helps grow our local economy and create good-paying American jobs by helping American businesses compete and innovate in the global market.” The House funding bill for Fiscal Year 2018 initially provided for $100 million for the MEP, a $30 million decrease from the previous year. Torres’s amendment provided for a modest $5 million increase. There are currently two beneficiaries of MEP funds in the 35th District, Insulfoam in Chino which used MEP to increase production by 20% while reducing energy costs and Diamond Wipes, also in Chino, which has used the MEP to expand their wet wipes business to markets around the world. “The number of shipping containers that arrive on a daily basis at the Ports of LA and Long Beach filled to the brim and turn around completely empty is just unacceptable,” continued Torres. “Every dollar of MEP investment generates nearly $20 in new sales growth and $20 dollars in new client investment. Investing in MEP means real wins for American businesses.” Torres recently took part in a district-wide tour of local manufacturers to highlight the region’s diverse manufacturing sector, and has provided a page on her website, torres.house.gov/manufacturers, of additional federal resources for Inland Empire manufacturers. Torres’s amendment passed by a vote of 279 to 137. The full House funding bill is expected to pass later this week before going to the Senate for further amending and final approval. ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the House Committee on Homeland Security voted to advance H.R. 3101, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act, a bill introduced by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) following the recent world-wide cyber-attack that resulted in the shutdown of the largest terminal at the Port of Los Angeles. “The most recent cyber-attack revealed serious vulnerabilities in our nation's maritime security, so I was pleased the Homeland Security Committee voted to approve my bill and to address these weaknesses before it’s too late,” said Torres. “With more than $1.3 trillion in cargo moving annually through our nation’s 360 commercial ports and the increased use of cyber technology to manage port operations ranging from communication and navigation to engineering, safety, and cargo, it is critical to protect our nation’s maritime cyber infrastructure.” H.R. 3101 would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports. Specifically, it requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish voluntary guidelines for reporting of cybersecurity risks, to develop and implement a maritime cyber security risk model, and to make recommendations on enhancing the sharing of cyber information. It also requires the Commandant of the Coast Guard to direct Area Maritime Security Committees to ensure area maritime security and facility security plans address cybersecurity risks. “With many of the goods that arrive at the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles coming through my district before being distributed throughout the rest of the country, ensuring our ports are secure is critical to the Inland Empire economy,” continued Torres. “It was shocking to learn how little coordination there is between port landlords and tenants when it comes to addressing cyber threats and how little has been done at the federal level to mitigate these risks. I hope House leadership agrees to bring my bill to a vote on the House floor so that we can address the vulnerabilities in our maritime security before those who wish to do us harm are able to engineer an even more debilitating attack.” During a recent visit to the Port of LA, Port officials presented the Congresswoman with a letter expressing support for H.R. 3101. The full text of H.R. 3101 can be found HERE. ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved two amendments introduced by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) increasing funding for infrastructure and transit programs. “Our nation’s infrastructure continues to grow and traditional means of financing struggle to keep up,” said Torres. “My amendment fully funding the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Demonstration Program will help communities navigate innovative, outside financing options and help make funds more efficient by promoting a regional focus to infrastructure.” Torres’s first amendment provides $12 million for the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Demonstration Program, which she created as part of the 2015 FAST Act, to connect localities with private financing options, provide technical assistance, and encourage regional planning. She also introduced an amendment directing $10 million to planning for Transit Oriented Development to help cities increase development with a focus on integrated planning. “We can’t just build more infrastructure. We need to be smart about how we do it so that we use funds efficiently, maximize economic growth, and foster thriving communities. Funding for planning of Transit Oriented Development means helping communities find ways to connect housing, jobs, and mixed use development, with transit,” continued Torres. “This program, as well as RIA, have both been approved by Congress, but have never been funded by DOT. Now my amendments will finally put them to work.” Torres’s amendments were added to legislation funding the federal government for Fiscal Year 2018. This larger funding package is expected to pass the House of Representatives later this week. ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, the House of Representatives will vote on a series of proposals introduced by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) that will increase funding for regional transportation planning and transit oriented development, will protect vulnerable immigrants from abusive practices, and will strengthen anti-corruption efforts in Guatemala. "I'm proud to be pushing Congress to act on issues important to voters in the 35th District including improving transportation here in the Inland Empire and protecting the rights and livelihoods of immigrant families," said Torres. "By allowing a debate and a vote on these five amendments, we will make sure the priorities of our community remain at the forefront of critical funding decisions by Congress.” The five amendments introduced by Torres are being considered as part of a comprehensive package to fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year. Torres’s amendments were five of only 118 that have been allowed to proceed to a vote out thus far out of over 900 amendments that were submitted to the bill. Votes are expected as early as today. Additional amendments introduced by Torres will be considered by the Rules Committee later today. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program over a six month period: “Todays’ announcement is a betrayal of American values and a needless attack on thousands of hardworking young people who want nothing more than an opportunity to contribute to this country. 800,000 young people have benefited from DACA. These are not faceless names – they are our neighbors, our friends, our family. They own businesses in our community and go to school with our children. Perhaps most disturbingly – those who enrolled in the DACA program did so voluntarily and took the word of the federal government in exchange for coming out of the shadows. Rescinding the DACA program will mean breaking our word to these brave young people. “DACA was never meant as a permanent fix to our nation’s broken immigration system, but as a common sense measure to direct our federal resources to where they are needed most. However, President Trump has shown no ability or desire to get us any closer to fixing the problems we know must be addressed and has instead chosen to rally his base while weakening our national security by wasting resources on breaking up families. “Now is the time for all Americans to come together and make it clear to President Trump that we will not turn our back on our neighbors. It is the responsibility of Congress to pass bipartisan legislation to protect Dreamers and begin fixing our broken immigration system. I urge Speaker Ryan and Republicans in Congress to take this up immediately. There is no reason to wait.” Residents of the 35th congressional district, which includes the cities of Bloomington, Chino, Fontana, Montclair, Ontario, Pomona, and Rialto, should call Torres’s Ontario Office at (909) 481-6474 with any questions or concerns. ###
08.28.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s ongoing attacks against immigrant communities following reports that he intends to end the DACA program as early as this week: “It is shocking that with all of the challenges facing our country, the President is continuing his incessant attacks on hard-working immigrants. This past Friday, with the eyes of the nation on Texas and Hurricane Harvey, the President pardoned former Sherriff Joe Arpaio, a man infamous for terrorizing immigrant communities and found guilty by the courts for racial profiling. Now, as thousands face catastrophic conditions in Texas, we are hearing reports that the President may bring an end to the DACA program in the coming days. “Dreamers are brave young men and women who embody American values. They deserve certainty, compassion, and an opportunity to contribute to the only country many have ever known. They do not deserve to be the target of Trump’s latest anti-immigrant crusade. “As an immigrant, as a Member of Congress, and as an American, I can assure the President that we are watching his every move. We will not be distracted, and we will not stand by while he rips apart our communities and places thousands of hard-working young people at risk. Far too much is at stake, not only for Dreamers, but for the very future of our country.” ###
08.17.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a Cybersecurity seminar where local leaders were briefed by federal officials from the Department of Homeland Security, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and private sector professionals on the latest cyber threats and how to prepare for them. “The recent cyber-attack on the Maersk shipping company which shut down part of the Port of LA showed just how cyber-attacks have the potential to bring the global economy to a standstill,” said Torres. “We have seen over the past few years that cyber criminals are not only targeting large corporations and institutions, but that our local governments and commerce are also under attack. Today’s expert panel provided essential information and resources to local government officials and law enforcement on how to take steps to protect our critical information and address these threats.” Taking part in today’s briefing were: Deron McElroy, Chief of Operations-West at the Department of Homeland Security; Marian Merritt, Lead for Industry Engagement at the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Educations at the US Department of Commerce; and Salim Neino, CEO of Kryptos Logic, the Los Angeles cybersecurity company that identified the worldwide “WannaCry” ransomware before it could do the kind of damage to the U.S. that it did in other countries. “It was an honor to participate as a guest speaker in this very important Cybersecurity briefing hosted by Congresswoman Torres today,” said Neino. “I believe only way we will be effective in protecting against emerging cyber security threats is if we work together - we need to increase awareness, improve collaboration, share meaningful intelligence, and work to bridge the divide that exists between the Cyber security community and government.” Today’s briefing was held at the Ontario Police Department. Attendees at the briefing included leaders from local municipal governments and representatives from local law enforcement agencies. ###
08.16.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma Torres (D-Pomona) toured the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach following the recent world-wide cyber-attack that resulted in a shutdown of the largest terminal at the Port Complex. During the site visit, the Port of Los Angeles issued a letter of support for H.R. 3101, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act, a bill introduced by Torres. “My district and the Inland Empire are a critical part of the goods movement that transports shipments between the Ports and the rest of the country,” said Torres. “The most recent cyber-attack revealed serious vulnerabilities in our nation's security, and I am pleased that the Port of Los Angeles is supporting my efforts to address these weaknesses before it is too late," said Torres. "There is currently surprisingly little coordination between port landlords and tenants in addressing cyber threats and federal agencies are only beginning to take into account the impact of cyber-threats to our maritime security. The most recent attack was debilitating and should serve as a call to action to address the clear vulnerabilities in our maritime security before those who wish to do us harm are able to engineer a more devastating cyber-attack." Today’s site visit included meetings with the Long Beach Port Security Division, representatives from the Department of Homeland Security, and a tour of the Port of Los Angeles Cyber Security Operations Center. “The Port of Los Angeles thanks Congresswoman Torres for her leadership in authoring H.R. 3101, which will improve information sharing between federal agencies and the maritime industry,” said the Port of Los Angeles Executive Director Gene Seroka. “This legislation will assist in protecting the nation’s busiest container port and keep its cyber infrastructure safe and secure.” “As the largest active Port Complex in the United States, securing the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach is a national priority for our safety and economic security,” continued Torres. “It is eye-opening to see first-hand this impressive facility and the work of so many dedicated personnel. At a time when our national security faces unprecedented threats, we must ensure our nation’s ports and the agencies tasked with protecting them have the tools and funding they need to effectively prepare for and respond to emergencies and security threats.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports. Additional information about the legislation and the text of the bill can be found here. ###
08.14.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) kicked off a week of Back-to-School events at Ontario City Library where she congratulated the Library on its recently awarded $10,000 federal grant and dropped off boxes of books donated by the Library of Congress. “As our kids get ready to head back to class, it’s my privilege to be able to help our local library get the resources it needs to better serve our young people and our community as a whole,” said Torres. “Through the books donated from the Library of Congress and the grant for the Library’s teen book festival and summer reading program, Ontario City Library will continue to inspire kids and teens to grow their minds and explore the world through a lifelong love of reading.” With the support of Rep. Torres, the National Endowment of the Arts recently awarded a $10,000 Arts Engagement in American Communities (AEAC) grant to support a teen book festival, community heritage and culture festival, and summer reading program. Torres also provided the library with 50 books from the Library of Congress’s collection. In addition to the visit to Ontario City Library, this week Torres will host a series of meetings with parents, educators, support staff, and school superintendents. She will also attend rallies at Sultana Elementary and Chaffey High School, and will take part in Cal Poly Pomona’s Professional Clothing Drive. “With students across the 35th District heading back to the classrooms, I wanted to take this week to bring increased attention to the impressive strides our educational institutions have made and to closely examine the challenges they still face,” continued Torres. “Through the hard work of our local schools, colleges, and libraries and the innovative services they’re developing, we’re laying the groundwork for student success and building the diverse, dynamic local workforce the Inland Empire economy depends on.” ###
08.14.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) drew to a close her “Made in the 35th” tour of manufacturing businesses in the 35th district. The tour, which took place from August 7th through 11th, included informational meetings, events, tours and site visits of manufacturers in a wide range of industries in the cities of Bloomington, Chino, Fontana, Ontario, Pomona, and Rialto. “My ‘Made in the 35th’ tour highlighted the incredible array of products that are made right here in our backyard, from packaged cookies to military equipment, from hotel furniture to parts for the Mars rover. It was inspiring to see the pride these companies take in their products and their employees and how many are family owned with employees who have worked at their facilities for decades,” said Torres. “Our region’s manufacturing sector is often overlooked in the national political discussions on American manufacturing, but it employs thousands of American workers creating goods that are used around the world. Any policy changes impacting this sector must take our region and our residents into account.” While manufacturing has only grown 3.4% nationwide, manufacturing in the Inland Empire is far ahead of national trends with a growth of 13.3% in San Bernardino County. A total of 34,500 people are employed in manufacturing in the 35th district with the average wage for manufacturing employees in California being nearly double the average wage for all sectors in the 35th district, $83,000 compared to $47,000. Torres’s tour included: 6 cities 15 manufacturers, representing 2,268 employees. 5 Military/Defense suppliers 11 companies that had been in the 35th District for more than 25 years 1 company that had been in the District for less than one year 3 female-owned businesses “Despite what is portrayed in the media, manufacturing in the Inland Empire is thriving. However, there is definitely more that can be done to support these businesses and spur economic growth in the manufacturing sector,” continued Torres. “During this tour, I had the opportunity to hear straight from business owners about the challenges they face and how Washington can help. From improving contracting practices to changing regulatory requirements, there is still a lot more work to be done to help American businesses succeed in an ever-more competitive global economy.” Photos of this week’s tours can be found on HERE. ###
08.07.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) launched her “Made in the 35th” tour, which will highlight area manufacturers and bring attention to the challenges facing the Inland Empire’s manufacturing sector. “Most people don’t think of the Inland Empire when they think of manufacturing, yet local manufacturers continue to fuel the region’s economy and produce goods used across the globe in nearly every sector,” said Torres. “My ‘Made in the 35th’ tour will highlight the local businesses that are innovating and creating jobs for local residents as well as the issues impacting the future of our local manufacturing economy.” Torres’s “Made in the 35th” tour will take place from August 7th through 11th and will include site visits to local manufacturing-focused business in Ontario, Fontana, Pomona, Chino, Rialto, and Bloomington as well as presentations and informative events and roundtable discussions with local stakeholders. “Revitalizing American manufacturing and creating more good paying manufacturing jobs is a priority for me, and our region will benefit when Congress turns its attention toward supporting manufacturing and manufacturers. I hope my tour shows that the Inland Empire, and particularly the 35th Congressional District of California, is a dynamic hub of American manufacturing,” continued Torres. “Our region is home to a robust manufacturing sector that employs thousands of Americans and is filled with potential given our strategic location and logistics hub, and changes to policies impacting U.S. manufacturing must take our region into account.” ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the defeat of the Senate’s most recent plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “I am relieved that the Senate stopped the disastrous “skinny” repeal which would have left 16 million Americans without insurance and caused an immediate 20% increase in premiums for all Americans. The rushed, misguided, partisan approach which has consumed Congress over the last six months has never been the right answer. I have long said that the Affordable Care Act is not a perfect piece of legislation, and reforms are necessary to make the system work for everyone. I am hopeful that we can now move forward in a bipartisan way on these reforms – including market stabilization, lowering costs, and expanding coverage for the remaining 30 million Americans who still lack health care insurance. There are areas where Democrats and Republicans can find common ground and policies that can gain bipartisan support, and that is where our attention should be focused. I remain committed to working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues to move forward and make healthcare more affordable and accessible for all Americans.” Earlier this week, Rep. Torres joined 88 other House Democrats in sending a letter to Speaker Ryan urging him to work with Democrats on a series of common-sense policy proposals to stabilize the healthcare market. The text of the letter can be found HERE.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) led 35 Members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group in sending a letter to the Trump administration opposing the disbanding the White House Council on Women and Girls. The Council, created by the Obama administration in 2009, works to ensure that agencies take into consideration the needs of women and girls when drafting policies and allows an open line of communication between the White House and women’s advocacy and policy groups. “Women in the United States and around the globe continue to face structural barriers that keep them from reaching their full potential,” said Torres. “This Council showed a commitment at the highest level of government to tearing down those barriers and helping women and girls succeed. It would be shameful for this administration to turn its back on that commitment.” In their letter, Members detail the Council’s mission and accomplishments, including the United State of Women Summit which highlighted the advancements women have achieved and the obstacles they still face in the United States and abroad as well as the establishment of the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault. Despite these accomplishments and the ongoing need for such a body, recent news reports have suggested the President plans to dismantle the Council. “When women and girls succeed, it benefits all of us,” continued Torres. “It seems completely counterproductive for a President who has been criticized for his positions on women’s issues to get rid of a council that is tasked with keeping the White House informed on issues impacting women and making sure the policies of the administration take into account the needs of women and girls. The President should be working to keep the Council in place and ensure it remains active.” The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. July 18, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, As Members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group (DWWG), we write to express our concerns regarding the reported disbanding of the White House Council on Women and Girls. Since its inception in 2009, the Council has worked to ensure that agencies take into consideration the needs of women and girls when drafting policies, creating programs, and supporting legislation. Members of the Council are heads of every federal agency and major White House office, which ensures that everyone shares in the responsibility of monitoring policy impacts on women and girls. When President Obama established the Council, he demonstrated a commitment to the advancement of women and girls within the administration. While women have made significant gains in educational attainment and the workforce, inequalities persist that keep families and communities from reaching their full potential. The Council worked to address these issues for the benefit of all Americans. In 2014, the Council, along with the Office of the Vice President of the United States, helped to establish the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault. This Taskforce worked to ensure American colleges and universities are in compliance with federal regulations regarding sexual assault on campuses, and to help foster a safer environment for all students. Last June, the Council hosted the United State of Women Summit to highlight the advancements women have achieved as well as the obstacles they still face in the United States and abroad. The inaugural event featured Obama administration leadership along with business, political, and community leaders, and focused on educational opportunity, economic empowerment, access to health care, violence against women, business innovation, civic engagement, and more. In addition to the positive, tangible achievements of the Council, its existence with a dedicated office and staff sends a clear message about an administration’s priorities. As former Executive Director Tina Tchen remarked, the office serves as a signal to career staff that they need to consider gaps in equality. The Council also allows an open line of communication between the White House and women’s advocacy and policy groups. Disbanding the office that deals with women’s issues erodes efforts for equality and signals that women’s issues are not a priority for this administration. Rather than disbanding the Council, we respectfully urge the administration to fully staff the White House Council on Women and Girls. Sincerely, Norma J. Torres Lois Frankel Member of Congress Member of Congress Brenda L. Lawrence Jackie Speier Member of Congress Member of Congress Robin L. Kelly Grace Napolitano Member of Congress Member of Congress Barbara Lee Sheila Jackson Lee Member of Congress Member of Congress Doris Matsui Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Member of Congress Colleen Hanabusa Stephanie Murphy Member of Congress Member of Congress Niki Tsongas Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Member of Congress Carol Shea-Porter Carolyn B. Maloney Member of Congress Member of Congress Julia Brownley Kathy Castor Member of Congress Member of Congress Debbie Dingell Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress Member of Congress Grace Meng Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress Member of Congress Dina Titus Gwen S. Moore Member of Congress Member of Congress Pramila Jayapal Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Member of Congress Jan Schakowsky Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Member of Congress Anna G. Eshoo Betty McCollum Member of Congress Member of Congress Susan Davis Alma Adams Member of Congress Member of Congress Cheri Bustos Ann M. Kuster Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.13.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a roundtable for faith leaders from throughout the Inland Empire to discuss current healthcare challenges affecting the community and provide an update on healthcare legislation working its way through Congress. “The faith community is on the front lines in helping so many people in our community deal with day-to-day, quality of life issues, and few issues are currently more pressing than the state of healthcare,” said Torres. “Today’s roundtable gave me the opportunity to hear first-hand from community leaders on what they’re seeing and hearing from their constituencies and to share with them what’s been going on in Washington and what it means for our community.” Attendees from today’s roundtable included representatives from the Islamic Center of Inland Empire, Mt. Zion Baptist Church, Pilgrim Church of Pomona, San Bernardino Catholic Elementary Schools, Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, and the Ephesians New Testament Church of Fontana among others. “Healthcare isn’t a political issue; it’s a moral one,” continued Torres. “Getting insights from the faith community on how they view the healthcare system is invaluable as we work in Washington to improve healthcare for all Americans. Faith leaders are often the ones who counsel people facing heart wrenching health care situations and see a side of the healthcare system that few others see. I am so appreciative of everyone who took the time out of their day to share their unique perspectives and experiences with me.” The roundtable took place at Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Ontario.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This week Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, will introduce the North Korea Follow the Money Act, a bill aimed at making sanctions against North Korea more effective in preventing the advancement of their nuclear weapons program by more accurately determining the regime’s revenue sources. “The recent ballistic missile test launched by North Korea is undoubtedly a cause for concern for the global community and should compel the world to take action to stop this threat,” said Torres. “My bill will make sure that any sanctions imposed by Congress or the administration apply meaningful financial pressure to the North Korean regime and inhibit their ability to move forward with their increasingly aggressive actions.” The North Korea Follow the Money Act would require the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to produce a national intelligence estimate of North Korean revenue sources. The estimate would include information regarding North Korean funding sources, financial and non-financial networks through which North Korea accesses United States and international financial systems, and global financial institutions that assist North Korea with financial transactions. “While targeted sanctions might be an appropriate response to address the North Korean threat, such sanctions will only work if we’re able to specifically identify where North Korea obtains the revenue to fund their weapons program,“ continued Torres. “North Korea’s actions pose a threat to U.S. interests and global stability, and it is critical that we not only take action but that we are certain that the actions we take are as effective as possible.” Torres has also offered this legislation in the form of an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The House Committee on Rules will determine Tuesday evening if Torres’s amendment will proceed to the House floor for a vote. The full text of the bill can be found HERE. ###
07.05.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) led a group of Democrats in calling for the resignation of recent Department of Energy appointee William Bradford after recent news reports revealed highly inappropriate social media postings concerning the ethnicity, religion, and gender identity of former President Barack Obama, Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, TV news host Megyn Kelly, and Japanese-Americans during World War II. “The tweets that have recently come to light are offensive and disgusting, but they are particularly shameful coming from a government official, especially one whose primary responsibility is working with an often marginalized community,” said Torres. “These posts show a lack of judgement and outright prejudice that make William Bradford completely unfit to serve as Director of the Office of Indian Energy, and Secretary Perry should immediately terminate his appointment.” Bradford was recently appointed as Director of the Office of Indian Energy at the Department of Energy. The Director of the Office of Indian Energy is tasked with working with public officials of all political parties to help Native American and Alaska Native communities maximize the value of their energy resources. “This kind of behavior has no place in the federal government,” continued Torres. “What does it say to our children when we allow public officials in the highest offices to make such hate-filled remarks without even a slap on the wrist? While these actions are by no means surprising given the recent actions of our Commander in Chief, we simply cannot allow them to go unpunished. Our country is better than that. The letter to Secretary Perry was cosigned by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), and James McGovern (D-MA). The full text can be found HERE.
06.30.2017	ONTARIO, CA – On July 4th, the Carnegie Corporation of New York will honor Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) as part of their annual Great Immigrants tribute recognizing the important contributions immigrants have made to advance our society, culture, and economy. “It’s an honor to be recognized by such a renowned philanthropic organization and to be in the company of such distinguished fellow honorees,” said Torres. “As an immigrant, I feel it’s my responsibility to give back to this country that has given me so much and to be a voice for those who can’t speak for themselves so that they too can be allowed to fulfill their potential just like I did.” Each year since 2006, the Carnegie Corporation has recognized the contributions of prominent naturalized citizens. This year’s honorees represent over 30 countries of origin and a wide range of experiences and professional fields. The 2017 honorees include six Nobel Prize winners, Max Levchin, the cofounder of PayPal, and actors Anthony Hopkins and Liam Neeson. “At a time when immigrants and minorities feel demonized and under attack, it’s important to remember that immigrants built this country and to this day continue to work tirelessly to make it stronger, better, and more prosperous,” continued Torres. “I commend the Carnegie Corporation for their ongoing work to highlight the important role that immigrants play in America and for all they do to promote civic engagement and participation among immigrant communities.” The Carnegie Corporation was founded in 1911 by Andrew Carnegie, a Scottish immigrant, to promote the advancement and diffusion of knowledge and understanding. The Corporation’s agenda focuses on issues that Carnegie considered critically important: international peace, the advancement of education and knowledge, and a strong democracy. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) has reintroduced the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act in response to a recent world-wide cyber-attack that has resulted in the shutdown of the largest terminal at the Port of Los Angeles. “The closure of the Port of LA’s largest terminal because of a cyber-attack reveals severe vulnerabilities in our nation’s security,” said Torres. “With more than $1.3 trillion in cargo moving annually through our commercial ports and the increased use of cyber technology to manage port operations ranging from communication and navigation to engineering, safety, and cargo, it is critical to protect our maritime cyber infrastructure.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports. Specifically, it requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish voluntary guidelines for reporting of cybersecurity risks, to develop and implement a maritime cyber security risk model, and to make recommendations on enhancing the sharing of cyber information. It also requires the Commandant of the Coast Guard to direct Area Maritime Security Committees to ensure area maritime security and facility security plans address cybersecurity risks. “There is currently surprisingly little coordination between port landlords and tenants in addressing cyber threats and federal agencies are only beginning to consider the impact that a cyber-attack could pose to our maritime infrastructure,” continued Torres. “This most recent attack should serve as a call to action to address the clear vulnerabilities in our maritime security before those who wish to do us harm are able to engineer a truly debilitating attack.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act has been cosponsored by Reps. Lou Correa (D-CA), Dwight Evans (D-PA), and Frederica Wilson (D-FL). The bill was first introduced in the 114th Congress and passed the House of Representatives unanimously. However, it did not advance in the Senate. The full text of the legislation can be found HERE. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement on the closure of the largest terminal at the Port of Los Angeles after a cyber-attack hit various companies in Europe and across the globe, including Danish shipping company A.P. Moller-Maersk: “The ongoing closure of the Port of LA’s largest terminal because of a cyber-attack shows the severe vulnerabilities in our nation’s security and the massive impact cyber threats pose to our local and national economy. More than $1.3 trillion in cargo moves annually through our commercial ports with many of the goods that enter through the Ports of LA and Long Beach coming to my district before being shipped to the rest of the country. By attacking the infrastructure on which our economy depends, our enemies have the potential to cause massive economic damage and hurt the livelihoods of our citizens, all from the other side of the planet and without firing a single weapon. “This is exactly why last Congress I introduced the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act which passed the House of Representatives unanimously. Hearings before Congress revealed how little coordination currently occurs between port landlords and tenants in addressing cyber threats as well as how little consideration has been given by federal agencies to the impact that a cyber-attack could pose to our maritime infrastructure. While part of my legislation became law last Congress, the Senate failed to take it up in its entirety, leaving our ports vulnerable. My bill is needed now more than ever to ensure the necessary planning and coordination is in place to protect the ports that form the very backbone of the American economy. “I will be reintroducing the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act, because it is clear that more needs to be done to protect our nation’s ports. This most recent attack should serve as a call to action to address the clear vulnerabilities in our maritime security before those who wish to do us harm are able to engineer a truly debilitating attack.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act passed the House of Representatives on December 16, 2015, but did not advance in the Senate. Subsequent legislation signed into law authorizing funding for our nation’s intelligence agencies did include a provision requiring a one-time report on cyber-threats to our nation’s ports, though it did not include the coordination provisions in Torres’s bill. ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced the Job Opportunities between Our Shores (JOBS) Act, a bill to promote advanced manufacturing in California and throughout the United States and give dislocated workers the training and skills they need to find new jobs in growing industries. “While we have seen traditional manufacturing jobs disappear or go overseas, jobs in advanced manufacturing continue to grow. Unfortunately, many advanced manufacturers are facing a growing gap between the new jobs being created and workers with the unique skills needed to fill them,” said Torres. “This bill will connect educational institutions and manufacturers so that we can make sure job seekers are trained in the skills employers demand.” The JOBS Act would authorize the Secretary of Labor to initiate pilot projects between advanced manufacturers and local community colleges, state colleges, and workforce investment boards in order to create education and training programs focused in the field of advanced manufacturing. Eligible recipients must demonstrate their capacity to teach advanced manufacturing concepts and how they will help workers develop the skills that will lead to an industry-recognized credential. “With the global economy only becoming more and more competitive, we need a dynamic, educated workforce to weather the challenges of the 21st century economy,” continued Torres. “Comprehensive, demand-driven training programs will help us do just that. Here in the Inland Empire, we have seen the success of the partnership between California Steel Industries and Chaffey College. This is a model we should grow and build upon to ensure the jobs of the future are created right here in our region and American workers are able to stay ahead of the curve.” The JOBS Act was initially introduced in the 114th Congress based on recommendations from Torres’s district-wide Job Creation Listening Tour and was inspired by a program at Chaffey College, where the institution received $15 million from the Department of Labor and the Department of Education to create a STEM Education Business Incubator Center at California Steel Industries (CSI) to improve manufacturing training in the region. The text of the JOBS Act can be found HERE. The bill has been cosponsored by Reps. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), and Darren Soto (D-FL),. ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier this week, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) represented the United States as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation to Mexico City for the 53rd United States – Mexico Interparliamentary Group Meeting. Torres, along with ten other U.S. Members of Congress, took part in a series of sessions with Mexican legislators to discuss areas of mutual interest and concern. “Despite our President’s unacceptable rhetoric toward Mexico and the Mexican people, our two nations share inextricable cultural and economic ties that will not be so easily undone,” said Torres. “The Interparliamentary Group is an opportunity to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and maintain open lines of communication between our two governments. Mexico is California’s main trading partner and the largest market for California-made goods, so it is in the best interest of the people I represent to ensure trust and mutual cooperation with our neighbors to the south.” The Mexico-U.S. Interparliamentary Group has been meeting since 1961. The group serves to bolster the bilateral relationship between the two countries and increase opportunities for citizens in both countries. During this meeting, delegates discussed the U.S.-Mexico trade relationship, border security, security cooperation, human rights, and immigration. Torres delivered remarks during the session on security cooperation. “Over the last several years, we have seen cooperation on security matters between our two countries increase, and it is incumbent upon us to deepen this cooperation in order to address the complex challenges we face,” said Torres. “I commend Mexico’s recent efforts to reform the justice system and address corruption and am committed to working to support these efforts, and I also recognize that the United States has to do our part to stem the flow of arms to Mexico. Challenges such as violence, rule of law, and drug, human, and firearms trafficking have devastating impacts on both sides of the border and can only be addressed through our shared responsibility and collaboration.” Rep. Torres is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Western Hemisphere Subcommittee and the founder and co-Chair of the Central America Caucus. On March 22nd, she introduced H.R. 1692, the “Countering Illegal Firearms Trafficking to Mexico Act,” which includes several common-sense measures to strengthen border security by cracking down on the transnational criminal organizations that profit from the illegal arms trade. ###
05.31.2017	ONTARIO, CA – On June 21st, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) will take the field for the Congressional Women’s Softball Game, an annual event where female Members of Congress compete against the women of the DC press corps to raise awareness and funds for the Young Survival Coalition. Torres, slated to play in the position of catcher, will play in honor of local breast cancer survivor Lisa Logan of Chino who was diagnosed at age 33. “Young women often face the toughest cancer odds and their own set of unique challenges,” said Torres. “I’m honored to join this bipartisan, bicameral group of Members of Congress to raise awareness for these critical issues while taking part in some spirited competition with the DC press corps.” Yesterday afternoon, Torres joined the Montclair High School softball team for a practice session and to get tips from the young athletes in preparation for the big game (photos available). The team also presented Torres with Montclair Cavaliers apparel and equipment, including a bat signed by the team, to use during the game. “With their league championship and 11-4 season, these talented athletes definitely had a lot to teach me," continued Torres. "I'll be proud to don the Cavaliers logo at the big game and recognize these hardworking young women in DC. I hope some of that winning spirit rubs off on the Member team!" The Congressional Women's Softball Game began in 2009 and has since raised over $900,000 for the Young Survival Coalition, the premier global organization dedicated to the issues unique to young women diagnosed with breast cancer. For additional information about the game, visit: https://www.congwomensoftball.org/. ###
05.31.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to reports President Trump will pull out of the Paris Agreement on climate change: “I am extremely disappointed by the announcement that President Trump will withdraw from the Paris climate accord. This agreement was a landmark achievement that saw unprecedented cooperation between 175 nations and all sectors of the economy – from industries including oil and coal to retailers, utilities, farmers, information technology, and car manufacturers – for the greater good of the planet. Never before has a such a large, diverse set of stakeholders with incredibly divergent priorities come to the negotiating table, put aside singular short-term interests, and come to an agreement that will benefit future generations. To say this was a diplomatic victory for the United States would be an understatement. However, once again, we're seeing President Trump cede U.S. global leadership to suit his personal political agenda. “As sea levels rise and extreme weather events become more frequent, we can’t ignore the fact that climate change is real and is already impacting communities across the globe and right here at home. Denying science is not only foolish; it is undeniably dangerous. Furthermore, our competitors across the world are already taking action. The President should look to the future and harness the American innovative spirit to lead the way in sustainability and clean energy. By stubbornly denying progress, we set our economy only further behind. I hope the President considers the devastating impact this decision will have on our planet and on America’s credibility and moral standing in the world.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – 55 Members of Congress, led by Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Gwen Moore (D-WI) sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly urging him to reject the appointment of Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke as assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement at the Department of Homeland Security. “There could be nobody less suited for this position than Sheriff David Clarke,” said Rep. Norma J. Torres. “The assistant secretary position in the Office of Partnership and Engagement is responsible for building relationships and working closely with diverse communities to prepare for and respond to national emergencies. His history of inflammatory statements and outright disdain for the communities he represents make him completely unqualified for this vital position.” Clarke has claimed to be appointed to this assistant secretary position, which does not require Senate confirmation, though no official announcement has been made. He rose to national prominence as a speaker at the 2016 Republican National Convention and has been a vocal supporter of President Trump. Clarke has a history of controversial statements against the Black Lives Matter movement, Democrats, Planned Parenthood, and gun control. He was also successfully sued by a police union in 2007 for religious proselytizing, and has faced a series of lawsuits in response to allegations of mistreatment of pregnant inmates as well as multiple deaths in the Milwaukee County jail. “It is clear Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke lacks the temperament and sound judgment required to effectively liaise with local law enforcement on matters of national security,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “The notion that Clarke — an elected official who continually abuses the power of his office and whose gross negligence contributed to numerous deaths in the jail he manages — is being considered for a position at the Department of Homeland Security should elicit profound concern from every American. We must not allow President Trump to reward Clarke’s ineptitude and inflammatory antics with a job in the federal government. A position of such importance demands a sensible and competent candidate, not a professional partisan agitator who prioritizes politics over his constituents’ safety.” The full text of the letter and list of cosigners can be found below. A pdf can be found HERE. May 23, 2017 The Honorable John Kelly Secretary of Homeland Security Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, DC 20528-0075 Dear Secretary Kelly, We urge you to reject the potential appointment of Sheriff Clarke as assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement at the Department of Homeland Security. Unlike the two previous holders of this position, Sheriff Clarke lacks the Homeland Security experience necessary to carry out the outreach and public engagement role of this position. Most alarming perhaps is that this position is integral to public safety and working with all communities to prepare for and to respond to serious homeland security emergencies. The Office of Partnership and Engagement is tasked with working with state and local governments, and doing private sector outreach with business and tourism offices to ensure the federal government is most effective in preventing harm to Americans. While the assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement must work with public officials of all political stripes from around the country, Sheriff Clarke has repeatedly shown a lack of openness to working with differing viewpoints. According to Sheriff Clarke: “When I hear people say that we need to reach across the aisle and work with people, with the Democrats, you know what I say? The only reason I’ll be reaching across the aisle is to grab one of them by the throat.” As Members of Congress representing diverse districts across the country, we are alarmed and concerned that coordination with agencies such as FEMA – which our constituents count on in greatest times of need – could be led by a figure who has shown himself to be unwilling or unable to effectively work with others. This is not a political role and should not be filled by someone who has such strong views against specific communities in the United States. We appreciate your attention to this request and your leadership in ensuring that DHS fulfills the agency’s most basic role providing assistance to our communities during major emergencies. Sincerely, Rep. Norma J. Torres Rep. Gwen Moore Rep. G.K. Butterfield Rep. Val Bulter Demings Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. Juan Vargas Rep. Pramila Jayapal Rep. Danny K. Davis Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay Rep. Bobby L. Rush Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman Rep. Grace F. Napolitano Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. James P. McGovern Rep. Mark Pocan Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva Rep. Nanette Díaz Barragán Rep. Rep. Karen Bass Rep. David N. Cicilline Rep. David Scott Rep. Joseph Crowley Rep. Anthony G. Brown Rep. Gene Green Rep. John Garamendi Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson Rep. Dina Titus Rep. Gerald E. Connolly Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. John Conyers, Jr. Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. Rep. Al Lawson, Jr. Rep. Adriano Espaillat Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Suzanne Bonamici Rep. Katherine M. Clark Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Jamie Raskin Rep. Lois Frankel Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Rep. Ruben Gallego Rep. Marc A. Veasey Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. James E. Clyburn Rep. Colleen Hanabusa Rep. Dwight Evans Rep. Emanuel Cleaver Rep. Donald Norcross
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the release of President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal: “President Trump’s budget is an irresponsible and short-sighted vision for America that places the greatest burden on American families and hardworking communities. The Inland Empire communities I represent are in a position to prosper and attract the kind of 21st century jobs we need to keep America competitive. However, they cannot harness that potential if the federal government eliminates $447 million in manufacturing assistance programs that help local companies grow and export their goods, or slashes $100 billion from the Highway Trust Fund that could be used to decrease congestion, or cuts $143 billion in student loan relief just as our most talented young people are struggling to get on their feet, or reduces Medicaid by $880 billion, directly impacting the health and well-being of the 300,000 Medi-Cal beneficiaries in the 35th District. “A budget is a statement of values, and this budget proves that President Trump’s values are backwards. Rather than cutting investments in education, affordable housing, medical research, community development, and health care, we should be working to invest in American families by working to create good-paying jobs, grow and diversify our local economies, and fix our crumbling infrastructure. Throwing billions of dollars at defense programs while gutting programs that Americans depend on won’t make our country safer, stronger, or more secure. It undermines the very foundation that makes America great.” ###
05.17.2017	ONTARIO, CA – This past week, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) highlighted the importance of naturalization and civic participation through events geared toward helping eligible residents earn their citizenship. “As a naturalized citizen, I know how important it is to take this step, and I commend those who are putting in the time, money, and effort to become full-fledged citizens of the United States,” said Torres. “I myself waited a long time to become a citizen, and it wasn’t until Prop 187 I felt that, despite having grown up here and being an active, productive member of the community, my rights were under attack. We find ourselves in a similar situation today. At a time when immigrant communities are feeling increasingly threatened, it’s more important than ever for those of us who can to take full advantage of the rights we have in this country.” On Thursday, Torres visited a citizenship class at the Chaffey Adult School in Ontario to speak with students taking a course to prepare for their naturalization exam. Then Saturday, Torres hosted a naturalization workshop in conjunction with the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA),the National Association of Latino Elected Officials (NALEO), San Bernardino Community Services, Inc., and the Training Occupational Development Communities Legal Center (TODEC), for those interested in becoming citizens to learn about the process and have their questions answered by legal professionals. “I appreciated the opportunity to share my story and my experiences, and to remind attendees that being a U.S. citizen is a privilege that holds great responsibility,” continued Torres. “I encourage those who gain their citizenship to make sure they not only register to vote but that they also get involved and stay informed and to make sure they hold their local, state, and federal elected officials accountable.” Torres immigrated to the United States from Guatemala at the age of five. Residents of the 35th congressional district who have questions about the naturilization process or have had issues with federal agencies, may call Torres’s Ontario office at (909) 481-6474 for assistance. ###
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – To mark Infrastructure Week 2017 (May 15th – 19th), Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) has introduced two pieces of legislation aimed at addressing the funding shortfall in the nation’s infrastructure spending: the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act and the American Infrastructure Opportunity Bonds Act. “In California and across this country, bridges are crumbling, traffic is worsening, and roads and rail networks can’t to keep up with shipping demands,” said Torres. “With our nation’s infrastructure funding gap continuing to grow, it has become abundantly clear that we need to find new and innovative ways to upgrade and maintain our nation’s roads, bridges, and water facilities. These two bills will do just that.” The Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act would help attract outside financing through “Regional Infrastructure Accelerators.” Through these multi-state organizations, local and state governments would receive the technical assistance and funding needed to undertake feasibility analyses, preliminary design, and other necessary studies required to get a project off the ground. Accelerators would also provide a vehicle to match projects with interested investors and for developing best practices and regional strategic planning, making existing infrastructure funds go further. The American Infrastructure Opportunity Bonds Act would take advantage of times when the interest rate on Treasury bills and bonds drops below the rate of inflation making borrowing essentially free. This legislation would set a trigger when this rate is hit to direct the Treasury to begin borrowing and to direct that new borrowing to be spent on infrastructure investments. “There is no question that Congress and state governments need to step up and take the lead in filling the infrastructure funding gap, but in order for our economy to remain competitive, we can’t afford to leave any stone unturned when it comes to options to meet this shortfall. As discussions over a large infrastructure plan continue, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Washington to make sure these proposals are included.” The full text of the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act can be found HERE, and the text of American Infrastructure Opportunity Bonds Act can be found HERE. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the American Health Care Act, the Republican plan to repeal Obamacare: “I voted against the American Health Care Act, because it jeopardizes the health and financial security of my constituents, as well as the millions of men, women, and children across this country who would no longer have access to quality, affordable health care. There are more than 300,000 residents of the 35th congressional district who rely on Medi-Cal and thousands more who were able to gain insurance for the first time thanks to the ACA. There is no question that this legislation would make it more difficult and expensive for seniors, families, and people with disabilities to access care. “Instead of rushing this bill to the President’s desk, Republicans should be working with Democrats to improve our health care system. We all want to lower costs and expand access to affordable healthcare, and the bill we voted on today does neither. I hope the Senate will be the voice of reason and put a stop to this train wreck before it is too late.” ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Norma Torres (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) announced the start of the Saved by American Immigrants National Taskforce (SAINT). The taskforce will collect and share stories of documented and undocumented immigrants who have positively contributed to U.S. society through heroic or lifesaving acts. The official launch of SAINT comes on the same day that the Trump administration announced the opening of the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) office. As originally set forth, SAINT will provide a direct counter-perspective to VOICE, highlighting positivity rather than generating negativity. “Propaganda is dangerous, and that is why we should all be troubled by the new Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) office. Immigrants are not a group to be feared. They are our friends, neighbors, and – sometimes – heroes. I prefer to operate from a place of positivity, and that’s what SAINT is all about,” said Polis. “This administration wants to perpetuate a stereotype that immigrants are dangerous and something to be feared, but the facts simply don’t bear that out. The vast majority of immigrants work hard, pay taxes, and contribute to our communities,” Rep. Norma Torres, who is also a Co-Chair of the New Americans Caucus, said. “This is why I’m joining Reps. Polis, Cardenas, and Jayapal in launching SAINT to counter the false narrative and share the countless, untold positive stories of immigrants in this country.” “President Trump’s latest initiative is nothing more than propaganda rooted in falsehoods meant to paint the entire immigrant community with a broad-brush stroke,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal. “In reality, without contributions made by immigrants, our nation would fail. I’m proud to join my colleagues in launching this task force to tell stories of the positive impact immigrants have on our nation.” “Folks in LA know – immigrants make our communities stronger,” said Rep. Tony Cárdenas. “We see day in and day out the positive impacts they have in our community and on our economy, and it’s past time we highlight their stories. In an atmosphere of hate and mistrust, now more than ever I’m proud to highlight the voices and actions of immigrants.” Statistical data indicates that the U.S. foreign-born population is far less likely than U.S. native-born population to commit crimes. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, from 1980 through 2010 male non-citizens between the ages of 18 to 49 were one-half to one-fifth less likely to be incarcerated for a crime. Earlier today, members of SAINT sent a letter to the entire House of Representatives soliciting further participation in the taskforce, hoping to welcome both Republicans and Democrats. Read the full letter here. ###
04.21.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) unveiled the winner of the 35th District’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition at an awards ceremony and exhibition yesterday evening at the dA Center for the Arts in Pomona. The winning piece, “A Better Tomorrow” by Pomona resident Evelyn Ruiz, was selected out of 49 pieces submitted from students throughout the 35th District. “I was once again impressed by the talent of these young students,” said Torres. “Whether they become the next Picasso or never pick up a paintbrush again, the arts have helped them expand their creativity and develop skills they can apply to all aspects of their academic and professional lives.” The theme for this year’s competition, chosen through a social media competition, was “Lessons from the Past, Hope for the Future.” In describing her winning piece, Evelyn, a student at Diamond Ranch High School, said “The image of a young girl blowing bubbles is meant to symbolize a child’s creativity and a mindset that brings kindness and less judgement. The world would be a better place if adults were to step back and mirror this child.” Evelyn’s piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for one year, and she is invited to a reception in Washington, DC, honoring winners from throughout the United States. She will also receive two roundtrip tickets to DC courtesy of Southwest Airlines and hotel accommodations courtesy of YK America. “It was inspiring to see the future through the eyes of the young people in our community,” continued Torres. “Despite all the fear and divisiveness we constantly hear about, the pieces we saw today showed incredible hope and optimism for what lies ahead. I am so proud of all of the young talent living right here in the 35th District, and I cannot wait to see what the future holds for Evelyn and the other young artists exhibiting today.” Winners were selected by John L. Machado, Professor of Art History at Chaffey College, and Sunil Thankamushy, Professor of Animation and Game Design at Mount San Antonio Collge. In addition to Ruiz, Natan Vergara from Village Academy High School won 2nd Place for his piece, “Helping Hand for a Better Future,” Alexa Beltz from Garey High School won 3rd Place for “Perceiving the Future,” and Honorable Mention went to Mya Cardoza from AB Miller High School for “Book in the Day” and Alina Munoz from Garey High School for “Together as One.” Rep. Torres hosts the Congressional Art Competition every spring. Interested students are encouraged to contact Torres’s Ontario office at (909) 481-6474 for additional information. ###
04.19.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a listening session for seniors and workshops focused on Social Security in Rialto and Fontana. “So many seniors in my district have expressed concern over the future of the Social Security system and what that means for them,” said Torres. “Since April is National Social Security month, I wanted to come to them to have a frank conversation about how I’m working to protect and strengthen Social Security and to address any issues they might have in obtaining their Social Security benefits.” Today’s meetings took place at the Heritage Park Senior Apartments in Rialto, at the Dino Papavero Senior Center in Fontana, and at The Orchards Active Senior Living in Fontana. At the meetings, Torres answered questions about issues affecting seniors and took part in workshops to make sure seniors are getting the most out of their Social Security benefits. “I believe that after a lifetime of hard work, our seniors deserve to be able to retire and live with dignity,” continued Torres. “That means making sure they understand the benefits to which they’re entitled and fighting to protect those benefits for them and for generations to come.” Seniors who were unable to participate in today’s events are encouraged to call Torres’s Ontario office at (909) 481-6474 with any questions or concerns or to address issues they may be facing with the Social Security Administration or other federal agency
04.19.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a small business roundtable in Rialto to hear directly from local businesses about the challenges they face and to learn about the effectiveness of available resources. “Our small businesses are an engine of growth for the Inland Empire, and are the key to a diverse, flourishing local economy,” said Torres. “Today’s roundtable gave me the opportunity to not only learn more about the resources that are available to local businesses but also to hear straight from the business owners who’ve used those resources.” Joining Congresswoman Torres at today’s roundtable included representatives from the Small Business Administration, the Inland Empire Center for Entrepreneurship, the Small Business Development Center, and the Inland Empire Women’s Business Center. During the meeting Torres also discussed the CLEAR SBA Act which she introduced earlier this year. This bill would create an easy to use database to make it easier for small business owners and entrepreneurs to find the small business loans they need to grow and succeed. “Whether it’s improving federal programs or making it easier to get help from the private sector, as a Member of Congress, I want to make sure I’m doing everything I can to ensure we have an environment where small businesses can flourish,” continued Torres. “A small business doesn’t have the staff and resources of a large company, so we need to help level the playing field so they can become competitive and keep our economy thriving. “This roundtable was a wonderful opportunity to sit down with the Congresswoman and share our thoughts on what we think Congress should be working on in the coming weeks and months to strengthen our local small businesses” said Vincent McCoy, Director of the Inland Empire Small Business Development Center (SBDC). “It’s incredibly important that we connect federal resources with local needs and these roundtables make it possible for small businesses to meet with the organizations that can help them grow and create jobs.” The Inland Empire Center for Entrepreneurship is housed at California State University, San Bernardino, and is a general one stop resource center for small businesses. Small business owners in the 35th District are also encouraged to contact Rep. Torres’s Ontario office should they need additional information or if they’re experiencing issues with a federal agency. They may also visit Torres’s Small Business Resource page https://torres.house.gov/smallbusiness.
04.12.2017	ONTARIO, CA – In commemoration of National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) highlighted the important work of 911 dispatchers through the introduction of a congressional resolution and by taking part in a series of local events and site visits. “After working for nearly 18 years as a 911 dispatcher, I know first-hand the challenges our public safety telecommunicators face, the stress they are under, and the critical importance of their work,” said Torres. “911 dispatchers are the unsung heroes of the first responder community and they rarely get the recognition they deserve.” On April 6th, Torres, along with 17 Members of Congress, introduced H.Con.Res 50, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week which takes place April 9-15, 2017. During this week, Torres will also take part in the 29th Annual Public Safety Telecommunicators Awards Banquet hosted by the California Public Safety Radio Association in Ontario on April 13th, and on April 14th will tour the CHP Communications Center in Los Angeles, visit the Los Angeles County Fire Dispatch Center, and attend the LAPD Metropolitan Communications Dispatch Center Open House, where Torres worked, in order to hear directly from dispatchers about the issues impacting their field. “I look forward to spending time with my fellow dispatchers and getting the latest on-the-ground updates,” continued Torres. “Ultimately, this week is about so much more than just recognizing the critical work they do every day. If dispatchers don’t get the recognition they deserve, they will never get the resources they need. This is why I will continue to push for improved training and professionalization of the workforce and for the reclassification of emergency dispatcher as a protective service occupation. Only then will dispatchers receive the support, benefits, and resources that truly reflect the realities of their job.” Earlier this year, Torres also met with emergency dispatchers at the Chino and Ontario Police Departments, and she has previously written to the Office of Management and Budget urging them to change the classification of emergency dispatchers in their Standard Occupational Classification system. National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week takes place the second week of April every year. The text of H.Con.Res. 50 can be found HERE.
04.10.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the shooting at North Park Elementary in San Bernardino, California: “As we learn more about today’s shooting at North Park Elementary, my heart breaks for those who were killed and injured and for the young students who have had their innocence shattered by this tragedy. I send my condolences to the victims, their families, and the entire San Bernardino community, and I commend our local law enforcement and emergency personnel for their swift, coordinated response. Schools are supposed to be safe havens, and tragedies like today’s are becoming far too commonplace in our society. While we are still gathering the facts, I am determined to do what I can to support those impacted by today’s shooting and take any actions necessary to protect our community and prevent these senseless acts of violence from ever happening again.” ###
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously approved H.Res 145, a resolution introduced by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) along with John R. Moolenaar (R-MI) to reaffirm the United States Congress’s commitment to fighting corruption in Central America. “Today’s unanimous approval of this bipartisan resolution is a recognition that combatting corruption is the key to progress on all fronts in Central America – from addressing drug and human trafficking to reducing sexual violence to creating greater economic opportunities,” said Rep. Torres. “In Guatemala, we have seen CICIG lead the way under the strong leadership of Ivan Velázquez and with the support of President Jimmy Morales. The progress they have achieved thus far underscores how important it is for governments throughout the region to cooperate with anti-corruption efforts and for the United States to be an active, engaged, and effective partner in those efforts.” The resolution states that efforts to fight corruption must remain at the center of U.S. policy in Central America, that the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) and the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) are important contributions to these efforts, and that the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador should cooperate with MACCIH and CICIG and the Attorneys General of the region. “It is encouraging to see the Foreign Affairs Committee advance this important resolution for the future of Central America,” said Rep. Moolenaar. “The United States supports the efforts of our allies to fight corruption and create better lives for the people of the region.” The resolution was introduced on February 16th and is also cosponsored by: Rep. Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee; Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee; Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA), co-chair of the Central America Caucus; Rep. Kelly L. Robin (D-IL). Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX); Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Don Young (R-AK); Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA); and Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX). The text of the legislation can be found HERE. Video of the markup, during which several Foreign Affairs Committee members gave statement in support of the resolution, can be found HERE.
03.27.2017	ONTARIO, CA – On Saturday March 25th Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a town hall meeting at Chaffey Joint Union High School District’s Hill Auditorium in Ontario for residents of the 35th congressional district, which includes Bloomington, Chino, Fontana, Montclair, Ontario, Pomona, and Rialto. “In order for me to be an effective representative in Congress, I need to know where our community stands on the issues,” said Torres. “This town hall gave me the opportunity to hear directly from a wide-range of constituents, and while we certainly didn’t all agree on some of the issues discussed, it was overall a very productive conversation. I’m looking forward to continuing this broad and open dialogue with the community and encourage all residents of the 35th district to remain engaged with my office.” Approximately 400 residents were in attendance, and participants were able to ask questions via lottery system as well as through Twitter and Facebook, where the event was livestreamed. Torres was also joined by a panel of experts on a variety of issues. They included: James Gilliam, Deputy Executive Director at the ACLU of Southern California; Dr. Bradley Gilbert, Chief Executive Officer of the Inland Empire Health Plan; and Diane K. Uchimiya, Director of Experiential Learning, Director of the Justice and Immigration Clinic, and Professor of Law at the University of La Verne. “Medi-Cal expansion in California has provided a vulnerable population comprehensive healthcare coverage and been a major boon to the local economy, adding $1.23 billion annually,” said Dr. Gilbert. “I appreciated the opportunity to speak to the local community about how repealing the Affordable Care Act could undo the advances we have made and weaken the overall health and economy of our community.” “Given the growing number of Southern Californians who are concerned about protecting the rights of immigrants, I was so excited to receive Congresswoman Torres' invitation to participate in this event and answer questions on this important topic,” said Mr. Gilliam. "Many people are concerned about immigration priorities and policies set forth in President Trump's Executive Orders, as they affect families, students, universities, employers, and more,” said Professor Uchimiya. “Kudos to Congresswoman Torres for her efforts to listen to and inform constituents about issues like immigration and healthcare, which have been at the top of the political agenda. I appreciate the opportunity to join her for this town hall meeting so we could answer questions and provide resources.” The full video of the Town Hall can be found HERE.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement following the decision by House Republican leadership to withdraw their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Today is a victory for the millions of Americans who rely on the Affordable Care Act, in particular the 300,000 residents of the 35th congressional district who rely on Medi-Cal and the thousands who were able to gain insurance for the first time thanks to the ACA. Putting at risk the healthcare of millions of Americans just to score a political win was childish and irresponsible. The American people deserve better. I hope Republicans will now go back to the drawing board, put their partisanship aside, and work with Democrats to fix our healthcare system to lower cost and expand access to care.” ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) introduced legislation to stem the flow of firearms across the U.S.-Mexico Border. The “Countering Illegal Firearms Trafficking to Mexico Act” includes several common-sense measures to strengthen border security and crack down on the transnational criminal organizations that profit from the illegal arms trade. The new bill would expand a current requirement to report multiple rifle sales to ATF. It would also make gun trafficking a federal crime punishable by twenty years in prison. Furthermore, it would require agencies tasked with countering firearms to improve coordination; measurement of progress; and information sharing. “President Trump has proposed spending billions of taxpayer dollars building a wall between the United States of Mexico that will do little to secure the border and has only offended our Mexican and Latin American allies in the process,” said Rep. Torres, a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and founder and co-Chair of the Central America Caucus. “My Democratic colleagues and I have a cheaper and much more effective proposal for securing the border and keeping guns out of the hands of dangerous criminals.” “Trafficking illegal guns to and from Mexico is currently not a federal crime. It really doesn’t get much crazier than that,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “This is just another example of how incredibly lax our gun laws are. Gun runners can cross state and international borders right now without fear of federal prosecution. The federal government is also prohibited from compiling data on this type of activity, also due to our arcane gun laws. This is obvious, commonsense stuff that has been stymied by the gun lobby for far too long. If we’re going to get serious about keeping Americans safe, we have to address this obvious issue. The Countering Illegal Firearms Trafficking to Mexico Act will go a long way to addressing some of the biggest shortfalls in our guns laws. I thank Congresswoman Torres for her work, and I am proud to join her on this bill.” “The gun violence epidemic in our country is out of control. Here in Brooklyn, hundreds of people have been needlessly killed over the past few years alone. To address this matter, I am proud to introduce the Countering Illegal Firearms Trafficking to Mexico Act,” said Rep. Yvette Clarke. “This bill will criminalize firearms trafficking and add robust reporting requirements to curb the shipment of guns across state or international borders. I thank Congresswoman Torres and Congressman Engel for their leadership on this issue and call upon my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this important bill.” President Trump and his administration have repeatedly expressed interest in addressing the problem of cross-border gun trafficking. A week after his inauguration, President Trump discussed the issue with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto. A joint statement noted that “the importance of the friendship between the two nations, and the need for the two nations to work together to stop drug cartels, drug trafficking and illegal guns and arms sales.” A February 9, 2017 Executive Order entitled “Enforcing Federal Law with Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations and Preventing International Trafficking” promised to deal with illegal gun trafficking, but provided scant details. Reps. Torres, Engel, and Clarke are all members of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the House of Representatives. The full text of the legislation can be found HERE, and a section-by-section summary can be found HERE. ###
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced the Communicating Lender Activity Reports from the Small Business Administration (CLEAR SBA) Act, legislation that will make it easier for small businesses to find available lenders and get the capital they need to grow and succeed. “As I’ve talked to many business owners in our community, I hear time and again about how difficult it can be to find small business loans, in particular that there is a lack of information about resources and funding options,” said Torres. “Small businesses don’t have the same connections and large staffs as large companies, so my bill will help level the playing field by making the process of accessing capital easier for small business owners, so they can grow their businesses and help the Inland Empire economy thrive.” The CLEAR SBA Act directs the Small Business Administration (SBA) to create a user-friendly database of lenders who issue small business loans that would serve as a one-stop shop for small businesses to conveniently search for lenders who provide loans that can meet each business’s needs. The database will include the number of loans issued by each lender, the total dollar amount of loans made by the lender, zip codes in which loans were issued, list of industries of loan recipients, and the number of loans issued to women-owned businesses, socially and economically disadvantaged businesses, and veteran-owned businesses. “As a small business owner of Coffee Nutzz in Rialto, getting access to a small business loan was essential to starting my business and making my dreams come true,” said small business owner and Rialto City Councilmember Andy Carrizales. “Passing the CLEAR SBA Act will allow me and other small business owners to continue to meet the need of our community while being a valuable asset to our local economy. Having easy access to a database of lenders that provide me the detailed information and type of loans that meet my needs will help my business expand and continue to compete into the future.” “The Pomona Chamber of Commerce continues to support Congresswoman Norma Torres efforts on the CLEAR SBA Act,” said Erica Frausto, Executive Director of the Pomona Chamber of Commerce. “Small businesses are a crucial part of the economy and we must provide them with the opportunities for easier access to capital. Historically disadvantaged businesses including minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, and veteran-owned businesses would have a tool that would give them access to lenders that would meet their specific needs. A small business loan can mean survival and growth to a small business, which in turn means growth for our economy.” The text of the CLEAR SBA Act can be found HERE. Businesses in the 35th District are also encouraged to visit Rep. Torres’s Small Business Resource Page for additional resources and information. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on President Trump’s budget plan and the harmful impact it would have on California’s Inland Empire: “While Donald Trump’s budget plan claims to make America great, it decimates the programs that keep us competitive, protect our security, and help communities thrive. In addition to egregious cuts to social programs, environmental protection, and education, I am especially concerned by the $2.4 billion in proposed cuts to the Department of Transportation and the elimination of the Community Development Block Grant program. “The Inland Empire is a growing region with the potential for significant economic growth, but we’re also facing increasing challenges. Every day, our roads are becoming more congested, and it is becoming more and more difficult for people to get around and for businesses to remain competitive. As Mayor of Pomona, I saw first-hand the impact that CDBG can have in strengthening communities and creating more economic opportunities. Cutting CDBG and transit programs only makes it harder for communities like mine to get the federal help we depend on to expand public transit, build roads and rail systems, and create more livable communities. “President Trump said that he would make funding infrastructure a priority, and many of us thought that would be an area where we could work with the new administration, but this budget proves that once again, it was nothing more than empty rhetoric and another broken promise.” Under the President’s budget, the TIGER grant program, which funds multi-modal, multi-jurisdictional projects not eligible for funding through traditional DOT programs, is eliminated, and only transit programs that have full funding grant agreements would be financed, putting several ongoing projects in the LA and Inland Empire area at risk. Torres sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $1.25 billion in FY17 TIGER grant funding, which could help fund projects in and around the 35th district that are eligible for these grants. ###
03.13.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the release of a report by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the House Republican healthcare bill: “CBO has reaffirmed what we already knew, the House Republican healthcare plan will rip health coverage from millions of Americans while gutting Medicaid and giving unnecessary tax breaks and giveaways to insurance companies and the wealthy. Just as I feared, the GOP plan will result in 14 million people losing health insurance coverage next year with 24 million losing coverage by 2026, and it will put the healthcare of the 327,000 people in the 35th District who rely on Medi-Cal in jeopardy by ending the Medicaid expansion and moving funding to a block grant system. “This legislation will take billions out of Medicare and will lead to higher premiums for older Americans and fewer protections for consumers. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find solutions that increase access to care and lower costs for working families, but it is clear this plan does neither. It’s time for the President and congressional Republicans to stop trying to ram this irresponsible plan through Congress and work with Democrats to actually fix the problems in our healthcare system.”
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday evening, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a telephone town hall on healthcare and the Affordable Care Act to discuss the newly introduced Republican repeal plan and how it would impact Californians. She was joined on the call by Tam Ma, Legal and Policy Director for Health Access California. “There are over 100,000 residents in the 35th District who get their insurance through the Affordable Care Act, either through Medi-Cal or through the Covered California exchange, so changes to the program will have a real impact on the lives of many in our community,” said Torres. “Last night’s call gave me an opportunity to give residents an update on the repeal plan that is making its way through Congress and to answer their questions about what it means for them.” A total of 3,142 individuals joined the call which lasted nearly an hour, and several participants were able to ask questions of the Congresswoman and her guest. Questions addressed the impact of the repeal plan on Medicaid and Medicare, what improvements can be made to the current Obamacare system, and what people could do to fight back against repealing the ACA. Participants who did not have their questions addressed during the call were able to leave recordings at the conclusion of the call that will be addressed by the Congresswoman individually. “It is clear that many people in the 35th District are concerned about what changes in the Affordable Care Act will mean for them,” continued Torres. “The way this bill is being rushed through Congress is very disconcerting, and I plan to do everything in my power to make sure my community is informed and knows what’s at stake.” During the call, individuals facing issues with their insurance companies were encouraged to contact 1-888-466-2219, and those with questions about Covered California plans and eligibility could call 800-300-1506 for more information. They can also contact Torres’s Ontario office at (909) 481-6474. Constituents of the 35th District will also have the opportunity to take part in a general town hall meeting on March 25th in Ontario. For more information and to register, residents may visit torres.house.gov/townhall. ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) introduced legislation that would protect DACA recipients from the Trump Administration’s executive orders. The bill, entitled “Dreamer Protection Act,” would prevent the administration from spending taxpayer dollars to apprehend, detain, or deport Dreamers who lose their status as the result of potential changes to the DACA program by the President or other officials. “Dreamers are brave young men and women studying and working hard to pursue the American dream. They represent what is best about this great country, but Dreamers in my district and across the country are worried. They have heard our President say so many conflicting things about immigration policy, and they have seen him act on the worst of his promises, without empathy or consideration.” said Rep. Torres. “This bill would provide Dreamers with the certainty that President Trump cannot rip them from the only country they know on a whim.” "There are 700,00 DREAMers in this country who were brought here at a young age and are now contributing to our communities,” said Rep. O’Rourke. They are going to school, serving in the military, and helping to create jobs and grow our economy. We need to protect them for their benefit and ours.” Since taking office, President Trump has used executive action to push through sweeping measures aimed at building a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border and creating a “deportation force” to go into immigrant communities, pursue and apprehend hardworking, taxpaying immigrants, and break up families. He has made a series of contradictory statements regarding DACA and immigration reform. The text of the bill can be found HERE. ###
03.06.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement condemning President Trump’s new executive order which suspends the refugee program and limits travel to the United States for individuals from certain Muslim-majority countries: “I am extremely disappointed the President decided to reintroduce his travel ban. The order announced today may be more limited, but it is no less reckless, unnecessary, and damaging to our national security. Just as it did before, this new ban will close America’s doors to vulnerable women and children fleeing war, persecution, and violence who have already undergone extensive screening. Just like the original ban, the new ban will weaken our campaign against ISIS by undermining our partnerships with Muslim allies fighting alongside us in Iraq and Syria and by enabling ISIS to recruit new members by portraying the United States as anti-Muslim. And just like before, this new ban lacks a clear rationale or benefit for national security. “The only purpose this executive order serves is to create fear and panic and further the President’s narrative that immigrants and foreigners are the enemy. The facts just don’t back him up. Refugees already undergo a lengthy, extensive screening process, and his own Department of Homeland Security found that people from the countries singled out don’t pose a threat. Trump’s new travel ban goes against the very values our nation was built on, and I fully intend to do everything in my power as a Member of Congress to fight it.” Rep. Torres is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. She joined nearly 200 Members of Congress in cosponsoring H.R. 724, the Statue of Liberty Values Act of 2017, which would have defunded the original ban. She also recently spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the impact of the ban on women and children fleeing violence in Central America. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the importance of hearing directly from constituents and announced upcoming events for residents of the 35th district to make their voices heard: “Representing our community is my biggest privilege. That’s why on Saturday, March 25th, I’ll be holding a town hall meeting to hear directly from residents of the 35th District. Additional details will be forthcoming. In the meantime, I will also be hosting a telephone town hall on March 9th to provide a convenient way for residents to stay informed. The focus of the March 9th event will be the Affordable Care Act, and we’ll have an expert on hand to answer your questions. If you’d like to sign up, simply follow this link: https://goo.gl/zPB9Qk “Over the last District Work Period, I had the opportunity to meet with several groups to discuss a variety of pressing issues in our community. I look forward to continuing to build on the strong dialogue we’ve built during my time in office and be a strong voice for the interests of our community. Any constituent in the 35th District who has questions about the ACA or any other federal matter can call my district office at 909-481-6474 or visit torres.house.gov for regular updates and information.”
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement calling for the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “During his confirmation hearings, Jeff Sessions explicitly said ‘I did not have communications with the Russians.’ Now we have learned that he lied under oath. For the good of the country and our institutions, Sessions must resign. An independent prosecutor should be appointed and a bipartisan commission should be created to investigate ties between the Russian government and the Trump campaign. The American people deserve the truth, and it’s clear we aren’t going to get it from anyone who worked on the President’s campaign.” Torres is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the President’s Joint Address to Congress: “I was disappointed by tonight’s speech. It did not provide any concrete guarantees that the over 100,000 people in my district who have healthcare through the ACA will be able to keep their coverage or that he has a plan to fund the roads, rail systems, and public transit on which the Inland Empire economy depends. The President has shown us that he will say one thing and do the opposite, so I don’t anticipate tonight’s promises being any different. “My guest to the address was just one of the people who has already been adversely impacted by the President’s actions. Areej Ali is a Sudanese-born green card holder who was nearly prohibited from boarding a flight back home to the US and then detained upon her arrival at LAX as a result of the travel ban. She is an asset to this country, she did everything right, and yet she was treated like a criminal simply because of where she was born. While the President has recently mentioned introducing a new version of this pointless, irresponsible ban, I can’t help but think how many more innocent people will be impacted by his reckless policies. “From promising to repeal the ACA to his immigration guidelines to the useless border wall, the President’s actions so far have done nothing but instill fear and create chaos while completely ignoring the actual problems we face. My constituents in the 35th district want to know that the social security system they paid into is going to be there for them and that Medicare isn’t going to be run by private companies. They want to know that their healthcare won’t be taken away just to score political points. And they want to know that our communities are not going to be torn apart by immigration raids, because we are no longer targeting dangerous criminals, but anyone in the wrong place at the wrong time. Tonight’s speech failed to give them the reassurances they deserve. “The time is over for empty rhetoric and nasty tweets. It’s time to get to govern and to do so responsibly. As this Congress gets to work, I hope my colleagues will hold the President accountable for the promises he made and always remember that our primary responsibility isn’t to a party but to the people we were sent here to represent.” ###
02.24.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that she will be joined at the President’s joint address to Congress by Areej Ali, a Sudanese-born green card holder who was initially prohibited from boarding a flight back to the US, and then detained once she arrived at LAX as a result of Donald Trump’s travel ban. “I invited Areej to join me at the President’s first address to Congress to show him the face of just one of the innocent people who has been swept up by his impulsive, destructive policies,” said Torres. “Areej has been a law-abiding resident of this country for twenty years, yet she was treated like a criminal and nearly prevented from returning to her only home because of Trump’s ill-conceived travel ban. While this ban has been halted by the courts, the President has stated on several occasions that he intends to reintroduce a new version in the near future. “I hope he sees that Areej and countless others like her are assets to this country, not collateral damage for his dangerous, isolationist view of the world. Trump may claim the ban and similar measures are necessary for public safety, but the facts just don’t back that up. By stoking fears against immigrants and targeting entire groups of people solely based on their country of origin, he has only created fear and chaos at home and tarnished our reputation around the world.” Areej Ali, a resident of Fontana, immigrated to the United States from Sudan in 1993. She was visiting Sudan for the first time in over 20 years to attend her sister’s wedding when the travel ban first went into effect. Ali was initially prohibited from boarding her connecting flight to the United States from Saudi Arabia, only being allowed to do so after attorneys intervened, and despite being a Legal Permanent Resident, she was then detained for nearly two hours upon landing at LAX before being allowed to reenter the country. ###
02.24.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined NextGen Climate President Tom Steyer for tours of projects that are helping to make environmental sustainability a way of life for all residents of the Inland Empire. “Living in Southern California, we recognize how vulnerable our communities are to the impacts of environmental changes,” said Torres. “I’m excited to have the opportunity to show one of the leaders in the movement to guard against climate change some of the people and organizations working right here in the Inland Empire to create an environmentally sustainable future. Protecting the environment isn’t a political issue, and the two sites we visited today are proving how sustainability can have a positive impact on our economy, health, community, and of course, the environment.” "The Inland Empire is thinking way ahead about clean energy, healthy food, and sustainability," said Steyer. "Local leaders and programs are addressing the future with great enthusiasm, wisdom, and community spirit. Congresswoman Torres and her staff exemplify the thoughtful and gracious community they serve and represent." Steyer and Torres began the day at the Inland Empire Utilities Agency in Chino where they were briefed by representatives of IEUA and Southern California Edison on their increasing use of renewable energy and toured their solar panels and their state-of-the-art Tesla battery storage facility that allows IEUA to optimize its energy efficiency. They later visited the Huerta Del Valle Community Garden in Ontario which is making organic, sustainable produce accessible and affordable to families regardless of income and met with local immigrant families who are benefiting from Huerta Del Valle’s services. Prior to today’s site visits, Torres and Steyer also met with local Muslim leaders in Torres’s district office to discuss the impact of the administration’s policies on the Inland Empire’s Muslim community. ###
02.21.2017	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a transportation policy roundtable meeting with local officials and regional transportation authorities to discuss short- and long-term regional priorities and increase coordination in planning and building regionally-oriented transportation solutions. "I convened today's meeting in order to encourage more effective regional cooperation in transportation planning," said Torres. "Our transportation needs don't suddenly change at the at the county line. It's commonplace for residents to live in one city or county and commute to another. As the local economy grows and our rails, roads, and freeways become more and more congested, it is clear there is a pressing need for a regional strategy to effectively address transportation needs." Participants also discussed new strategies for land-use and transportation, improving cooperation across borders and jurisdictions, incorporating Ontario Airport in regional transportation planning, and how localities and transportation authorities can better leverage federal, state, and local dollars. "With infrastructure shaping up to be an area where both parties in Congress and the new administration may be able to find agreement, we must make sure our region is setting itself up to be competitive and able to maximize resources," continued Torres. "I’ve been pleased by the willingness of key regional transportation leaders to work together and to develop strategies that benefit the entire region. My goal is improve upon the solid efforts that have already been made. Our region has great potential for economic growth and increased quality of life. Getting transportation infrastructure investments right is essential to unlocking that potential and will require all of us doing our part to deliver innovative solutions to meet the transportation needs of residents across Southern California." Today's meeting took place at the CHP Inland Empire Communications Center in Fontana. Participating were representatives from local cities as well as regional transportation authorities including the Foothill Gold Line Construction Authority, Metro Link (Southern California Regional Rail Authority), Alameda Corridor-East (ACE) Construction Authority, and L.A. Metro. ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to reports of a Department of Homeland Security memo exploring the possibility of using National Guard troops to enforce immigration laws: “I really hope that the administration is not considering sending the National Guard into our communities. Using military forces to round up innocent civilians is a page straight out of the dictator’s playbook. It is contrary to American values and our long-held principle of keeping the military out of law enforcement. The National Guard is responsible for protecting Americans from threats to our safety at home and abroad. They are not responsible for enforcing immigration laws. Deploying National Guard troops into neighborhoods to rip apart families would only serve to sow fear and chaos in communities across the country. We have seen abroad - especially in Latin America - that when the military is involved in law enforcement it undermines rule of law and ultimately erodes the people’s trust of the military. We don’t want that here.” Though the White House has stated the proposal was not being seriously considered, Torres remains concerned the idea was ever explored. Rep. Torres serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-chair of the New Americans Caucus. She immigrated to the United States from Guatemala at the age of five. ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and John R. Moolenaar (R-MI), joined by Reps. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), and Albio Sires (D-NJ), introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to reaffirm the United States Congress’s commitment to fighting corruption in Central America. The resolution states that efforts to fight corruption must remain at the center of U.S. policy in Central America, that the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) and the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) are important contributions to these efforts, and that the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador should cooperate with MACCIH and CICIG and the Attorneys General of the region. “Combatting corruption is the key to progress on all fronts in Central America, from addressing drug and human trafficking to reducing sexual violence to creating greater economic opportunities,” said Rep. Torres, a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. “In Guatemala, we have seen CICIG lead the way under the strong leadership of Ivan Velázquez and with the support of President Jimmy Morales. The progress they have achieved thus far underscores how important it is for governments throughout the region to cooperate with anti-corruption efforts. I am proud to introduce this resolution with Congressman John Moolenaar and with strong support from leaders on both sides of the aisle to reaffirm Congress’s commitment to being a productive partner in the fight against corruption.” “I join Congresswoman Torres in support of this resolution. It is a strong signal to our friends and allies in Central America that the United States is aware of the challenges they face and is ready to support them in creating a better future for their countries,” said Rep. Moolenaar. “With this resolution, our Congress is coming together in a bipartisan manner to say loud and clear that we strongly support the valiant efforts by the Guatemalan, Honduran, and Salvadoran people to put an end to corruption and impunity,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. “As we continue to provide much-needed U.S. assistance to Central America, the fight against corruption must be front and center.” “A more stable and prosperous Central America means a more secure homeland,” said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. As such, the importance of our continued focused on strong partnerships and enhanced governance in the Northern Triangle cannot be overstated. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in Congress on this united front and look forward building off the gains made over the years to root out corruption, crack down on illicit activities like narcotics and human trafficking, and bring increased opportunity and prosperity to the region.” “The officials working to root out corruption in the Northern Triangle are putting their country first, often at great risk to their own lives,” said Rep. Sires, Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee. “I applaud their efforts to bring real and lasting change to the region that will help give every child in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador a chance at a safe and happy future. I thank my colleague Congresswoman Torres for introducing this important and timely resolution.” In recent years, the people of Central America have grown increasingly frustrated with government corruption, a scourge throughout the region and one of the top obstacles to development. As a result of popular discontent, initiatives to combat corruption have advanced in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. The United States has supported these initiatives, and this resolution underscores the United States’ continued support for anti-corruption efforts in Central America. The resolution has also been cosponsored by Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), David Valadao (R-CA), and Don Young (R-AK). A link to the resolution can be found HERE.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement after a scheduled meeting with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and ICE Acting Director Thomas D. Homan regarding this weekend’s immigration raids was abruptly cancelled: “I am deeply disappointed Acting Director Homan has cancelled today’s meeting with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The communities we represent were the most impacted by ICE’s activities this weekend, and ICE thus far has failed to provide the necessary clarification regarding the scope and effects of these raids. “Members of my community, both those with status and those without, are in fear for their safety and the safety of their loved ones. Families have been upended and many don’t know whom to trust. I have now written two letters to ICE asking for more information, including: who has been swept up in these raids? were non-criminals detained? did they receive access to counsel and due process? and were any children left without parents? I am still awaiting ICE’s response.” A copy of the letter Rep. Torres sent to ICE on February 10th can be found HERE. An additional letter sent today from members representing the Inland Empire region can be found HERE. ###
02.09.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement on the ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals against reinstating President Trump’s travel ban: “I am proud that our judiciary has stood up to the President and his dangerous overreach of power by ruling against reinstating the travel ban. In the short time this ban was in place, President Trump has already done a great deal of harm to our nation and our national security. “He has tarnished America’s image, giving ISIS and Al Queda a powerful new recruiting tool. He has humiliated and traumatized families and children who were on their way to this country legally. He has detained individuals who gave critical help to our Armed Forces, and he has turned our back on our moral obligation to refugees fleeing from humanitarian crises. Worse, in defending this misguided policy, he has attacked the very integrity and independence of the judicial branch and the separation of powers upon which our constitutional democracy depends. I know that this is not the end of this legal battle, but it is an important victory.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) introduced H.R. 981, the Indian Health Service (IHS) Hiring Freeze Exemption Act, a bill that would exempt the Indian Health Service (IHS) from President Trump’s federal employee hiring freeze. “Donald Trump’s hiring freeze comes at a particularly difficult time for the Indian Health Service, the primary care provider for over 2.2 million American Indians and Alaska Natives,” said Torres. “With a nearly 33% vacancy rate for physicians in IHS hospitals, the IHS and the communities that depend on its services simply cannot afford to have IHS put off hiring doctors and critical personnel. This bill is consistent with the President’s statements that he would grant exemptions for positions that are necessary to meet public health needs, so I urge him to support this bipartisan legislation.” The IHS Hiring Freeze Exemption Act simply directs the administration to exempt the IHS from the federal employee hiring freeze in a similar manner to military personnel. With over 1,550 vacancies for medical professionals across the IHS system, failure to provide this exemption would limit IHS’s ability to meet the needs of individuals in some of the most remote and rural communities around the nation. The National Indian Health Board, the National Congress of American Indians, the Direct Service Tribes Advisory Committee, and the Self-Governance Communication & Education Tribal Consortium have all supported a similar exemption. “Native American issues have always been bipartisan in Congress,” said Cole. “As the Republican co-chair of the Native American Caucus, I look forward to working with the new administration and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we continue to make progress on critical health care issues in Indian country. I want to thank Congresswoman Torres for her efforts to see that the U.S. government continues to fulfill its trust obligation to Native American nations.” Congresswoman Norma Torres currently serves as Ranking Member on the Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs Subcommittee on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the subcommittee which oversees all matters regarding Native Americans. The IHS Hiring Freeze Exemption Act is cosponsored by Reps. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ) and Walter B. Jones, Jr. (R-NC). The text of the bill can be found HERE. ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) announced the creation of the New Americans Caucus to celebrate the growing number of new Americans serving in the United States Congress. The group, comprised of first-generation immigrants, will provide a forum to inform all Members of Congress about the issues affecting new Americans and an opportunity to discuss how immigrants help strengthen the fabric of America. “Through this new Caucus, we hope to show the important roles that first generation immigrants play not only in the U.S. Congress but throughout this entire country and to encourage other new Americans to get involved and become leaders in their communities,” said Torres. “It wasn’t until California’s divisive, anti-immigrant Proposition 187 that I realized how important it is to become naturalized and take full advantage of my rights in this country that had become my only home. Taking that step gave me the life-changing opportunity to be a voice for my community and to have a seat at the table where decisions impacting Californians and all Americans are made.” Rep. Torres, who is currently in her second term in Congress, was born in Guatemala and came to the United States at the age of five. Rep. Ros-Lehtinen also immigrated to the United States at a young age, fleeing Cuba’s Castro regime at the age of eight, and has been serving in Congress since 1989. “As the first Hispanic woman to be elected to serve in Congress, I am honored to launch the New Americans Caucus along with Norma to highlight the important contributions that naturalized citizens have brought to the halls of Congress and also to our great nation,” said Ros-Lehtinen. “Becoming a U.S. citizen is a high privilege that has allowed me to serve my constituents in South Florida. Our country was founded by immigrants and will continue to be strengthened by new Americans.” "The New Americans Caucus brings a much needed national spotlight to the contributions of new Americans across our country,” said Sayu Bhojwani, Founder and President of the New American Leaders Project (NALP), a national, nonpartisan organization focused on bringing new Americans into the political process. In July 2016, NALP launched a state level New American Leaders Caucus chaired by California State Senator Ricardo Lara and Maryland State Delegate Aruna Miller. “Our democracy is stronger when everyone participates. Our experience has shown us that when new Americans feel like they have a voice and are represented, they become more involved in our democracy.” Despite a rise in anti-immigrant campaign rhetoric, the last election saw the number of immigrants serving in Congress approximately double. In addition to Co-Chairs Torres and Ros-Lehtinen, the group’s members include Reps. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and Albio Sires (D-NJ). ###
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following reports that Republican House Judiciary staffers secretly participated in drafting Donald Trump’s anti-refugee executive order, House Democrats wrote to Speaker Paul Ryan strongly urging him to clarify whether it is permissible for House staff to provide assistance to the White House in developing its policies. The letter also demands that Ryan provide explicit guidance regarding whether it is acceptable for House staff to sign non-disclosure agreements with the Administration. The full text of the letter is below. “It is deeply troubling to learn of reports that Judiciary Committee staff not only played a significant role in drafting this harmful, ill-conceived Executive Order but also signed agreements barring them from discussing this work with their employing Member,” said Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (CA-35). “Such actions represent a direct attack on the independence of this institution. If the President wants congressional staff to compensate for his administration’s incompetence, he should hire them himself. “As the Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan has a responsibility to protect the integrity of this institution and preserve the balance of powers our country has always relied on. Handing over the reins to a President who has shown so little respect for our democratic process and for the views of anyone who disagrees with him would set a dangerous precedent.” “It’s not surprising that the Trump Administration turned to the professional staff of the House Judiciary Committee for assistance – the White House lacks basic competence and expertise on a whole range of critical issues,” said Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07). “Instead, what’s frankly astonishing is that these staffers collaborated with Donald Trump without informing Chairman Goodlatte and agreed to sign non-disclosure agreements as a precondition to working with the White House. They betrayed not only their boss but also the institution we all serve. “Responsibility for this incident goes straight to the top of the Republican Conference. Speaker Paul Ryan has set a clear example – when it comes to Donald Trump, House Republicans should offer assistance now and ask questions later. Facing a President intent on shredding our most basic democratic norms, now more than ever, we need a Congress that’s strong enough and independent enough to stand up to Donald Trump.” Dear Speaker Ryan: On Monday, January 30, 2017, Politico reported that staff members from the House Committee on the Judiciary had participated in the drafting of the January 27, 2017 executive order entitled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States.” As you are well aware, this highly controversial, impetuous, and poorly-implemented Executive Order has resulted in the detention of at least one Iraqi citizen who assisted the American military in Iraq, a five-year old boy from Iran, and dozens of other innocent individuals who pose no security threat to the United States; has generated confusion and panic for families across the globe; has met bipartisan opposition in Congress; has sparked massive protests across the country; has been partially stayed by an American judge; and has met strong resistance from the Departments of State and Justice. Top counter-terrorism experts agree that this order will be harmful to national security, largely because it will serve as a top talking point for ISIS and other terrorist organizations, and will significantly harm America’s reputation in the Muslim world. In this context, we respectfully ask you to, in consultation with the House Committee on Ethics and the Committee on House Administration, provide written clarification and guidance for all House of Representatives Members and staff as to whether it is permissible for House Members or staff to assist in the drafting of executive orders, to provide assistance to the administration in any other fashion, or to enter into non-disclosure agreements with the administration. While we recognize that the current administration lacks policy experience, it is nonetheless imperative to maintain a clear division between the executive branch and the legislative branch. Thank you for considering this important request. Sincerely, Norma J. Torres Ruben Gallego Carol Shea-Porter Timothy J. Walz Eddie Bernice Johnson Darren Soto Ted Lieu Elliot L. Engel Betty McCollum
01.27.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to Donald Trump’s latest executive actions drastically limiting the admittance of refugees: “Donald Trump’s Executive Order on refugees is more reckless fear-mongering that has no basis in reality. Refugees already undergo a long, rigorous screening process that often takes years. While we should work to continuously monitor and improve that process, there is no reason to bring it to a crashing halt or to enact a blanket ban on those coming from certain Muslim-majority countries. “Having spoken to many refugee families in my district, I know that they are no different from me and my family. We all are looking to provide a future for our loved ones and contribute to this great country. Closing America’s doors to those fleeing unimaginable hardships is an affront to our values as a nation, and targeting people based on their faith is downright un-American. Throughout our history, our nation has been a beacon of hope and freedom. Today’s actions go against those very ideals and will ultimately erode the moral leadership of the United States across the globe.” Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to a series of executive actions regarding immigration enforcement announced by the Trump administration: “The Trump administration’s executive actions on immigration are an attempt to appease the far right at the expense of our values, security, and economic well-being. Contrary to Trump’s claims, these cynical orders will only undermine local law enforcement, waste taxpayer dollars, and strain our relationship with a crucial ally. “As a former 911 dispatcher, I know how critical it is for local law enforcement to have good working relationships with their communities. Local law enforcement officials have enough on their plate and know what’s best to keep their communities safe. Today’s orders will create greater fear and distrust between local police and immigrant communities and will lead to more crimes going unreported and endanger the lives of all Americans. “Donald Trump’s decision to expand on our already existing border fence and to recklessly ramp up enforcement actions are equally dangerous and ill-conceived. He should spend more time visiting the border, meeting with border agents, and speaking to the people who live and work in border areas. They will tell you that a wall is not the answer and that it will actually weaken our security and hurt local economies. “If the President was truly concerned with addressing illegal immigration and securing the border, he would focus on investments to address root causes, and he would work with Congress to advance bipartisan immigration reform that upholds our values and strengthens our economy.” ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, a group of Democratic lawmakers sent a letter to Mexico’s undersecretary for North America, Carlos Sada, regarding the importance of U.S.-Mexico cooperation in light of the recent extradition of Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman. The letter was signed by Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and James P. McGovern (D-MA). The letter comes as the Trump administration announces new executive actions aimed at building a wall between the United States and Mexico, a key ally. “I am proud to join my Democratic colleagues in highlighting the importance of our strong partnership with Mexico,” said Rep. Torres. “Donald Trump wants to wall us off from our neighbors, but we will get a better deal by working with Mexico to tackle the serious issues that are facing both our countries. We saw this just law week, when engagement with Mexico put El Chapo behind bars in an American prison, facing charges in an American court.” “Working with Mexico is crucial now more than ever,” said Rep. Cardenas. “The success of this partnership was underlined in the extradition of ‘El Chapo’ under the Obama Administration. While our new President may not recognize this success, we will continue to support this relationship and to stand up for our many mutual interests.” In the letter, the Democratic lawmakers noted that the strong law enforcement and justice sector cooperation that began under President George W. Bush and strengthened under President Barack Obama has led to the recent extradition of Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman and is in the national interest of both countries. They also underscored the need to strengthen cooperation, especially in the areas of anti-corruption and accountability for government officials. The full text of the letter is below. A pdf can be found HERE. Carlos Manuel Sada Solana Subsecretario para América del Norte Subsecretaría para América del Norte Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores Plaza Juárez 20, Piso 18 Delegación Cuauhtémoc Colonia Centro 06010 Ciudad de México Dear Undersecretary Sada, We write to express our strong support for law enforcement cooperation between the U.S. and Mexican governments, which has led to the extradition of Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzman to the United States. Such cooperation is in the national interest of both our countries. Transnational criminal organizations, such as the one that Mr. Guzman led, remain a significant threat to public health and public security on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border. As you know, the law enforcement partnership known as the Merida Initiative began under Presidents George W. Bush and Felipe Calderón and has been strengthened under Presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Peña Nieto. As we move forward, we must continue to work together to strengthen and reform law enforcement and justice sector institutions. We must also redouble our efforts to fight against corruption, ensuring that government officials are held to the highest ethical standards. Please count on our continued friendship and support for ongoing cooperation between the United States and Mexico. Sincerely, Norma J. Torres Member of Congress Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress Albio Sires Member of Congress Tony Cárdenas Member of Congress Joaquin Castro Member of Congress James P. McGovern Member of Congress
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) was named to the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade and the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere of the Foreign Affairs Committee. She was also elected Ranking Member of the Indian, Insular and Native Alaskan Affairs Subcommittee and named to the Subcommittee on Federal Lands of the Natural Resources Committee. “I am honored to serve on the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade on the House Foreign Affairs Committee,” said Torres. “National security and public safety are among my top priorities in Congress, and my placement on this subcommittee will allow me to continue the important work I began two years ago on the Homeland Security Committee to counter terrorism and secure our country. Considering the strong ties the 35th District has to Mexico and Latin America, I am also proud to have the opportunity to serve on the Western Hemisphere subcommittee where I intend to promote strong U.S. engagement with our neighbors and partners across the Americas.” The subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade oversees matters related to nonproliferation, to U.S. efforts to coordinate international programs that combat terrorism, and to international and economic trade policy. The subcommittee on Western Hemisphere has jurisdiction over U.S. foreign policy toward Canada, Latin America, and the Caribbean. “As a Californian, it is also a privilege to serve on the subcommittee responsible for protecting our nation’s natural treasures and to lead Democrats on the subcommittee that handles issues so vital to the well-being of tribal and insular populations,” continued Torres. “Tribes and people living in insular areas are among the most vulnerable, and I look forward to continuing to advance tribal economic self-sufficiency and sovereignty and bringing greater attention to the issues impacting offshore territories.” As Ranking Member of the Indian, Insular, and Native Alaskan Affairs Subcommittee, Torres will be the lead Democrat on the subcommittee that oversees all matters regarding Native Americans, Alaska Natives, and the insular areas of the United States. The Subcommittee on Federal Lands on which she will also serve is responsible for all matters related to the National Park System, U.S. Forests, public lands, and national monuments. This is Torres’s second term on the Natural Resources Committee. She was appointed to the Foreign Affairs Committee on January 10, 2017. ###
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in response to reports of widespread flooding throughout Southern California and in particular, the Inland region: “With rains continuing and flooding only set to get worse across Southern California, I urge Inland Empire residents to exercise extreme caution and limit travel as best they can. Floodwaters are often deceptive and unpredictable. Please do not put your life and the lives of first responders at risk. “As this situation develops, I will remain in contact with local and state officials and am prepared to work with the governor to request federal assistance if needed. Once this period of urgency has passed, I will also be engaging in more extensive discussions with each of the cities in the 35th District and their respective emergency services agencies to determine what additional support and resources are needed in order to recover from these damaging storms and prepare for similar events in the future. “I give a heartfelt thanks to all the rescuers and first responders who are working round the clock in these difficult conditions and remind residents to always put safety first. Remember, avoid fallen trees and powerlines, and if you find yourself approaching a flooded street, turn around; don’t drown.” ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump: “Today begins a new chapter in our history - one that is marked with concern and anxiety over what this new administration will bring. After witnessing his first address to the nation he is now sworn to protect, it is clear those fears are not unfounded. Trump has laid out a vision of our country that stands in sharp contrast to the hope and optimism that are the hallmark of the American spirit. “As he did during his campaign, Donald Trump appealed to our basest fears and stoked a misguided desire for isolationism that will only hurt our economy and our role as a global leader. Once again, we heard a message from him that was big on rhetoric and thin on substance. There is a lot we don’t yet know about what the new administration holds for our nation, but moving forward, I will continue to put the people of California’s 35th congressional district first. I remain committed to doing everything in my power to ensure that in the next four years, we create jobs and grow the middle class, promote gender equity and social justice, protect the rights and liberties of all Americans regardless of race, religion, or background, and we do not roll back the progress we have worked so hard to achieve.” ###
01.17.2017	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement announcing that she plans to attend the 58th Inaugural Ceremony for Donald J. Trump: “After serious consideration, I have decided to attend the inauguration of Donald Trump. As an immigrant and a woman who represents a largely Mexican-American constituency, I am the embodiment of everything Trump has demonized and demeaned. And on January 20th, I will stand over his shoulder, just as I will during the next four years, to remind him that I and people like me deserve a seat at the table, and we will watch his every move. We will hold him accountable. We will not silently step aside and be ignored. We will show up, and we will make our voices heard. “That day will be uncomfortable, even painful, but I believe that as a Member of Congress, it is my duty to witness the peaceful transition of power that is the hallmark of our democracy. Let us not forget that Republicans attended President Obama’s inaugurations and still managed to oppose him at every turn. This is why the very next day, I will march with thousands of men, women, and children to show Donald Trump that women are what make America great. We will send a clear message to him, and the world, that we won’t back down from the fight for justice, inclusiveness, and dignity for all. “I will never stop voicing my opposition to policies that divide and destroy this country, but I have always believed that to make a difference, you have to show up. And that is exactly what I intend to do.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to a House of Representatives vote that clears the path for repeal of the Affordable Care Act: “The vote taken in Congress today is nothing short of irresponsible. It puts in jeopardy the lives of millions of Americans just for the sake of a political victory. For years, we have heard Republicans talk about repealing and replacing, but to this day we have not seen a single workable plan to replace the ACA. Today, it is clear. Congressional Republicans have no interest in improving healthcare for the American people. If they did, they would work with Democrats to improve the ACA and build on its progress rather than scrapping the whole thing and leaving millions of Americans high and dry. “The fact of the matter is Obamacare is working. In California, we have cut the number of uninsured in half and have used ACA resources to improve the way we deliver healthcare to all Californians. I was proud to work in the state legislature to improve the implementation of the ACA, from making sure materials were available in a variety of languages to diversifying the areas of expertise of Covered California Board members so they could better address the needs of our state. But now, because our state has seen the greatest benefits from Obamacare, we also have the most to lose. It’s time my congressional colleagues put their partisan interests aside and genuinely work to expand access to affordable health care for all Americans.” S. Con. Res. 3, the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Resolution, which includes language to expedite legislation repealing the Affordable Care Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 227 to 198. It previously passed the Senate by a vote of 51-48 in a late night session that went into the early hours Thursday. ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi announced that Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) would be appointed to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. “As a representative from California, a state that is home to people from all over the world, I am honored to have the opportunity to serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee and to work alongside Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, and my Democratic and Republican colleagues as we promote efforts to encourage global cooperation and advance U.S. leadership abroad,” said Torres. “Never before has the United States’ role on the global stage been more important, and the decisions made in this committee in the coming Congress will have a direct and significant impact on our nation’s security and economic well-being.” Torres, who was born in Guatemala, is currently serving her second term in Congress. She is the founder and co-chairperson of the Central America Caucus, a bipartisan group of over 30 members that seeks to enhance understanding of Central America within Congress and provide a forum for Members of Congress and their staff to discuss U.S. policy toward the region. “I look forward to using this new position to continue my efforts to strengthen U.S. engagement throughout the Western Hemisphere,” continued Torres. “This is a region that has long been neglected. However, as we have seen with the child migrant crisis and with the detention in Central America of a small but not insignificant number of U.S.-bound migrants from countries that may pose a security threat, this neglect can have very real consequences for our own country. Over the next term, I hope to build on the work started by Congress on a bipartisan basis and to continue to be a strong advocate for U.S. investment and leadership in promoting economic development, security, and rule of law in the region.” In the previous Congress, Torres served on the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Natural Resources. ###
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Rules Committee rejected an amendment offered by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) to H.R. 5, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017, that would have exempted from burdensome new approval requirements regulations aimed at protecting sexually exploited minors and victims of trafficking. “My amendment sought to protect some of the most vulnerable people in our society, and I am disappointed the Rules Committee chose to not make it in order,” said Torres. “Rules that are designed to safeguard the well-being of innocent victims, many of whom are minors, should not be held up by the impossible hurdles H.R. 5 would impose, and these rules should therefore be exempted from this bill.” The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 is a combination of five bills that passed the House in the 114th Congress that creates burdensome requirements for new regulations issued by the executive branch. It adds additional regulatory layers to the rulemaking process including requiring additional advanced notices, creating reporting requirements on top of those already mandated, prohibiting courts from taking into consideration agency interpretations of laws or regulations, and barring federal agencies from implementing high impact rules until all related requests for judicial reviews are resolved – essentially creating the opportunity for endless delay tactics. “The Regulatory Accountability Act adds unnecessary hurdles to the rulemaking process – a process that is already thorough and allows for significant vetting of new rules,” continued Torres. “It would effectively bring to a halt the approval of all new regulations, even those that are urgently needed. Victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation don’t have the luxury of time. Further slowing down rules meant to protect these victims will put lives in danger and cause irreparable harm to these already vulnerable individuals.” The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 is expected to be debated on the House floor later this week. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement on being officially sworn into the 115th Congress: “I am ready and excited to be back in Washington to begin my second term in Congress and am looking forward to continuing the work I started over the last two years to address the economic challenges facing the Inland Empire, create new ways to attract funding for infrastructure projects, and keep our communities safe. There is no question that we face a lot of uncertainty in the coming months, but my priority will be, as it has always been, the well-being of the people of California’s 35th congressional district. “Just as I did during my first term, I will continue to look for areas of agreement and cooperation with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and I am optimistic that we will be able to work together to make our country better for all Americans. But I can assure my constituents that I will never back down from a fight, and I will make sure my voice is heard if policies are proposed that go against the interest of the people I represent. The next two years won’t be easy, but I’m ready to get to work.” Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district which includes portions of Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties. She currently sits on the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Natural Resources. ###
12.16.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Yesterday afternoon, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a roundtable meeting at the University of La Verne Law School with local Dreamers, immigration advocates, and faith groups to discuss the concerns of Dreamers and their families regarding possible changes to the DACA program, as well as ways in which members of the community can collaborate moving forward. “In recent weeks many of my constituents have expressed fear in how the incoming administration’s policies will impact DACA recipients and their families,” said Torres. “Today’s meeting allowed me to hear straight from those who would be most affected by possible changes as well as from the organizations working on the ground to protect the rights of vulnerable members of our community. Beyond just hearing their concerns, today also gave us an opportunity to bring together a diverse group of local organizations to find ways to take action.” The recent election and the anti-immigrant rhetoric of the presidential campaign have led to growing fear and anxiety within the immigrant community. Many are especially concerned with how the new administration’s policies will impact the DACA program and potentially put DACA recipients, who have registered with the federal government in order to participate in the program, and their families at increased risk. “It is my responsibility to protect the rights and well-being of all individuals in our district – regardless of their immigration status,” continued Torres. “While we are fortunate to live in a state that recognizes the important role immigrants play in our communities and in our nation, there are still a lot of questions regarding the impact of federal actions. Dreamers in particular gave much of their information to the government and underwent background checks, all believing that they would be protected from deportation. Now they are more vulnerable than ever, and it falls on all of us to help keep them safe.” Torres has recently signed several letters to the Obama administration asking for relief for DACA recipients. In two separate letters sent to the President on December 5th, Torres and other Members of Congress asked President Obama to protect Dreamers’ personal information so that it cannot be used for immigration enforcement purposes and asked the President to accelerate the processing of pending DACA applications and renewals. In a letter dated December 7th, several Members of Congress, including Torres, asked the President to pardon Dreamers. While a pardon would not give Dreamers status, it would make it easier for Dreamers to obtain status through family ties or an employer sponsor. ###
12.15.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) praised the Senate’s passage of H.R 3842, a bill introduced by Torres and Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA) which makes improvements to and permanently establishes the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC). FLETC provides quality, cost-effective training to more than 70,000 law enforcement officers across a variety of agencies each year at seven locations around the country. “As we have seen time and again, our local law enforcement is the first line of defense in the fight against terror and coordination between all levels of law enforcement is vital when responding to a crisis,” said Torres. “If our nation is to address the threat of future attacks, we must ensure that law enforcement personnel throughout the nation not only have the tools they need but also the training to effectively address the diverse terrorism landscape.” FLETC was first established in 1975, and training is carried out by a group of experienced instructors who use modern facilities and standardized course content at locations in Georgia, Maryland, New Mexico, and South Carolina. FLETC also has a unique partnership with the Maritime Law Enforcement Training Center at the Port of Los Angeles where they help ensure local law enforcement get the training they need to protect America’s critical ports and waterways. This is particularly significant at a port that accounts for more than 40 percent of the goods that enter the United States. “With many of the goods that arrive at the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles coming through my district before being distributed throughout the rest of the country, maritime security is one of my top priorities and must be a critical piece of our national homeland security mission,” continued Torres. “I commend my Senate colleagues for passing this important piece of legislation and look forward to the President signing it into law.” H.R. 3842 passed the House of Representatives on December 8, 2015 by a vote of 420 to 2. The Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent on December 10, 2016, making minor technical changes which required the bill be sent back to the House for approval. The House passed the Senate amended version on December 13, 2016. The bill now heads to the President for his signature. ###
12.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – The evening of December 7th, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a Telephone Town Hall on Student Loans and Financial Aid for residents of the 35th Congressional District. She was joined by representatives from the U.S. Department of Education and the California Student Aid Commission who gave an overview of programs available to assist students and graduates and answered questions from callers. “Americans currently owe a total of $1.3 trillion in student loan debt, and that debt is having a devastating impact on their future earning potential and quality of life,” said Torres. “I know from personal experience how daunting the financial aid process can be, so I want to make sure my constituents know about the many resources that are out there to help so that they and their families are on the right financial path.” A total of 2,163local residents took part in the call and asked questions ranging from the kinds of scholarships available for graduate studies to advice about attending a military academy to where to turn for assistance repaying student loans. Joining Rep. Torres was Ashley Harris, Awareness and Outreach Specialist at the U.S. Department of Education, who gave an overview of federal financial aid, the College Scorecard, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), and federal student loan relief programs. Participants also heard from David O’Brien, Director of Government Affairs, and Catalina Mistler, Division Chief of Program Administration and Services, both with the California Student Aid Commission. They discussed the application process for state-based financial aid programs, the California DREAM Act application, and the one billion dollar Cal Grant program, which provides financial assistance for low-income California students. Constituents who were unable to participate in the Telephone Town Hall are encouraged to explore the following resources for assistance when navigating the financial aid process or when seeking help with repaying federal student loans: Student Loan and Financial Aid Resources California Student Aid Commission: https://www.csac.ca.gov (888) CA GRANT (888-224-7268) To check status of Cal Grant or Chafee Grant applications: https://mygrantinfo.csac.ca.gov/ StudentAid.gov Primary federal resource, available in English and Spanish, for parents and students to get information on: preparing for college, types of aid, who gets aid, FAFSA, applying for aid, and how to repay student loans. https://studentaid.ed.gov 1-800-4FED-AID (1-800-433-3243) Additional resources, fact sheets and online tools: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/resources Federal Student Aid Information Center (FSAIC) Customer service page with FAQs, live chat, and email and phone options https://studentaidhelp.ed.gov/ Residents of the 35th District may also contact Torres’s Ontario office for assistance at (909) 481-6474. ###
12.09.2016	DECLARACIÓN DE LA CONGRESISTA NORMA TORRES SOBRE EL DÍA INTERNACIONAL CONTRA LA CORRUPCIÓN ***English translation below*** WASHINGTON, DC – En reconocimiento del Día Internacional contra la Corrupción, la Congresista Norma J. Torres (D-CA) emitió el siguiente pronunciamiento para elogiar los esfuerzos de reforma en el Triángulo Norte de Centroamérica y reafirmar su compromiso de asegurar que el nuevo gobierno estadounidense continúe apoyando los esfuerzos contra la corrupción en Centroamérica: “Los pueblos de Honduras, Guatemala y El Salvador han enviado un claro mensaje a sus líderes y a la comunidad internacional: ya no tolerarán la corrupción. Las valientes personas trabajando dentro de los sistemas de justicia – los jueces, procuradores e fiscales, personas como Thelma Aldana en Guatemala, Oscar Chinchilla en Honduras y Douglas Meléndez en El Salvador – han escuchado al pueblo y han tomado posiciones valientes. Han investigado y procesado con éxito la corrupción y la malversación de fondos, han seguido los casos a dondequiera que lleguen. Han sido motivados no por partido o ideología, sino por la firme convicción de que la corrupción es incompatible con la democracia moderna y es una amenaza al largo plazo contra la estabilidad y la prosperidad. El gobierno de los Estados Unidos y nuestros embajadores en la región han estado orgullosamente a su lado. Hemos apoyado los esfuerzos de la comunidad internacional, especialmente la Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala y la Misión de Apoyo contra la Corrupción y la Impunidad en Honduras, para combatir la corrupción. En este Día Internacional contra la Corrupción, aplaudo los esfuerzos para combatir la corrupción en el Triángulo del Norte y prometo continuar trabajando con mis colegas del Congreso de los Estados Unidos, tanto republicanos como demócratas, para asegurar que el nuevo gobierno estadounidense siga apoyando la lucha contra la corrupción en Centroamérica.” --------------------------------------- REP. TORRES STATEMENT ON INTERNATIONAL ANTI-CORRUPTION DAY WASHINGTON, DC – In recognition of International Anti-Corruption Day, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement to laud reform efforts in the Northern Triangle and reaffirm her commitment to ensuring that the new administration continues support for anti-corruption efforts in Central America: “The people of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador have sent a clear message to their leaders and to the international community: they will no longer tolerate corruption. Brave individuals in the justice systems—prosecutors, judges, and attorneys general, individuals such as Thelma Aldana in Guatemala, Oscar Chinchilla in Honduras, and Douglas Melendez in El Salvador—have listened to the people and have taken courageous stands. They have successfully investigated and prosecuted corruption and embezzlement, following cases wherever they may lead. They have been motivated not by party or ideology, but in the firm conviction that corruption is incompatible with modern democracy and is a long-term threat to stability and prosperity. The United States government and our ambassadors in the region have proudly stood with them. We have supported efforts by the international community—especially CICIG in Guatemala and MACCIH in Honduras—to fight corruption. On this International Ani-Corruption Day, I applaud efforts to fight corruption in the Northern Triangle. I promise to continue to work with my colleagues in the United States Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, to ensure that the new U.S. administration continues to support the fight against corruption in Central America.” ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement commemorating the one year anniversary of the attack on the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California: “One year ago today, our community was rocked by an act of senseless violence and hatred when 14 were brutally murdered and 22 were injured in the attack on the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino. While this was an act of pure evil that can never be diminished or forgotten, I hope we all choose to also remember and focus on the way our community came together in the aftermath. The Inland Empire showed the world that we will never give into fear. Instead, we stand together in solidarity, we support one another, and we lift each other up during our most trying time. “During events like this, it is easy to resort to scapegoating and reactionary measures that do little more than instill anxiety and distrust in our communities. As a Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I remain committed to working with our local law enforcement, community leaders, and federal agencies to ensure Congress provides the resources necessary to effectively prevent and respond to similar attacks and enacts policies that bring us together and truly help keep our communities safe. “My heart goes out to the victims, the families, and the IRC employees impacted by this horrific attack. Time may pass, and wounds may heal, but the tragedy you have suffered will not soon be forgotten. Just as many of us stood together at vigils and ceremonies, we continue to stand with you today.” Torres previously represented the City of San Bernardino in the California State Senate. ###
11.23.2016	ONTARIO, CA - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) concluded the innaugural class of her congressional Youth Advisory Commitee and announced the opening of the application process of next year's committee. "I was consistently impressed and inspired by our first group of participants in the YAC program and can't wait to welcome our next group," said Torres. "These young future leaders were intellectually curious, insightful, and shared a strong commitment to making our community a better place. I hope they learned as much from the program as I learned from them." The Youth Advisory Committee provides local high school students with a unique opportunity to acquire leadership skills in a professional environment with a focus on helping students learn about the industries that are crucial to the 35th District's economy. Over the course of several months, students took part in a series of session with local officials from a wide range of fields, participated in site visits, and attended local congressional events. At the final meeting, each student presented a research project on legislation pending before Congress that is important to them and engaged in a frank discussion with Torres about those issues. "This was a great overall experience," said America Chavez, a student at Chaffey High School. "The most important thing I will take away from participating in YAC is the impact I can make on my community and how important my voice is." Applications are now open for the next Youth Advisory Committee with is set to begin in late January 2017. The application and additional details can be found here: https://torres.house.gov/youth-advisory-committee. The deadline to apply is January 13, 2017 by 5pm. ###
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) was recognized at the New American Leaders Project Power and Policy Awards Reception for her contributions to the national political landscape as an immigrant in elected office. “I am so grateful for this honor and for the amazing work the New American Leaders Project does,” said Torres. “This past campaign season, immigrant communities were demonized and scapegoated, but through events like tonight’s and their training, fellowships, and advocacy efforts, NALP is working tirelessly to show why immigrants make this country a better place for all Americans.” NALP is the only organization in the country preparing first- and second-generation immigrants for civic leadership at all levels of government. A non-partisan organization, NALP is dedicated to expanding the number of immigrants in leadership positions, increase voter participation in immigrant communities, and give immigrant voters more opportunities to engage in the broader political dialogue. The other honorees this evening were Boston City Council President Michelle Wu and Colorado State Representative Joe Salazar. “Those of us who come from countries where the basic rights of citizenship are threatened, know how important it is to get involved and speak out for those who can’t,” continued Torres. “I wasn’t always politically active, but from my years organizing neighborhood watch to walking the halls of Congress, I’ve learned that if we want to make our communities a better place, we have to make our voices heard in the political process. I am honored to receive this award, and hope that through my work, I can serve as an example to other immigrants.” Torres came to the United States at the age of five from Guatemala. She previously served in the California State Senate and Assembly and as Mayor and City Council Member of the City of Pomona. ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined 168 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, led by Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI), in sending a letter asking President-elect Donald Trump to rescind ‘alt-right’ leader Steve Bannon’s appointment as White House Chief Strategist. “President-elect Trump has promised to work to unify this nation and heal the divisions from the election, but the person he has appointed as one of his closest advisors raises serious concerns,” said Torres. “Bigotry, anti-Semitism, and xenophobia have no place in our society, let alone the White House, and I hope the President-elect will consider the disturbing message the appointment of Steve Bannon sends to the American people and the world.” The full text and a list of signers is embedded below. A PDF of the letter sent to Trump Tower today can be downloaded by clicking here. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, David N. Cicilline (RI-1)Alma Adams (NC-12)Pete Aguilar (CA-31)Karen Bass (CA-37)Joyce Beatty (OH-3)Xavier Becerra (CA-34)Ami Bera (CA-7)Donald Beyer (VA-8)Sanford Bishop (GA-2)Earl Blumenauer (OR-3)Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1)Madeleine Bordallo (Guam)Brendan Boyle (PA-13)Robert Brady (PA-1)Julia Brownley (CA-26)Cheri Bustos (IL-17)G.K. Butterfield (NC-1)Michael Capuano (MA-7)Tony Cardenas (CA-29)John Carney (DE-At large)Andre Carson (IN-7)Matt Cartwright (PA-17)Kathy Castor (FL-14)Joaquin Castro (TX-20)Judy Chu (CA-27)Katherine Clark (MA-5)Yvette Clarke (NY-9)William Lacy Clay (MO-1)Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5)James Clyburn (SC-6)Steve Cohen (TN-9)Gerald Connolly (VA-11)John Conyers (MI-13)Jim Cooper (TN-5)Joe Courtney (CT-2)Joseph Crowley (NY-14)Elijah Cummings (MD-7)Danny Davis (IL-7)Susan Davis (CA-53)Peter DeFazio (OR-4)Diana DeGette (CO-1)John Delaney (MD-6)Rosa DeLauro (CT-3)Suzan DelBene (WA-1)Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11)Ted Deutch (FL-21)Debbie Dingell (MI-12)Lloyd Doggett (TX-35)Michael Doyle (PA-14)Tammy Duckworth (IL-8)Donna Edwards (MD-4)Keith Ellison (MN-5)Eliot Engel (NY-16)Anna Eshoo (CA-18)Elizabeth Esty (CT-5)Dwight Evans (PA-2)Sam Farr (CA-20)Bill Foster (IL-11)Lois Frankel (FL-22)Marcia Fudge (OH-11)Ruben Gallego (AZ-7)John Garamendi (CA-3)Gwen Graham (FL-2)Al Green (TX-9)Gene Green (TX-29)Raul Grijalva (AZ-3)Luis Gutierrez (IL-4)Janice Hahn (CA-44)Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1)Alcee Hastings (FL-20)Denny Heck (WA-10)Brian Higgins (NY-26)James Himes (CT-4)Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15)Michael Honda (CA-17)Jared Huffman (CA-2)Steve Israel (NY-3)Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8)Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30)Hank Johnson (GA-4)Marcy Kaptur (OH-9)William Keating (MA-9)Robin Kelly (IL-2)Joseph Kennedy (MA-4)Dan Kildee (MI-5)Derek Kilmer (WA-6)Ron Kind (WI-3)Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2)James Langevin (RI-2)Rick Larsen (WA-2)John Larson (CT-1)Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)Barbara Lee (CA-13)Sander Levin (MI-9)John Lewis (GA-5)Ted Lieu (CA-33)Dave Loebsack (IA-2)Zoe Lofgren (CA-19)Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)Nita Lowey (NY-17)Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3)Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1)Stephen Lynch (MA-8)Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18)Doris Matsui (CA-6)Betty McCollum (MN-4)Jim McDermott (WA-7)James McGovern (MA-2)Jerry McNerney (CA-9)Gregory Meeks (NY-5)Grace Meng (NY-6)Gwen Moore (WI-4)Seth Moulton (MA-6)Patrick Murphy (FL-18)Jerrold Nadler (NY-10)Grace Napolitano (CA-32)Richard Neal (MA-1)Richard Nolan (MN-8)Donald Norcross (NJ-1)Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC)Beto O’Rourke (TX-16)Frank Pallone (NJ-6)Bill Pascrell (NJ-9)Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10)Ed Perlmutter (CO-7)Scott Peters (CA-52)Chellie Pingree (ME-1)Mark Pocan (WI-2)Jared Polis (CO-2)David Price (NC-4)Mike Quigley (IL-5)Kathleen Rice (NY-4)Cedric Richmond (LA-2)Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40)Raul Ruiz (CA-36)Tim Ryan (OH-13)Linda Sanchez (CA-38)John Sarbanes (MD-3)Jan Schakowsky (IL-9)Adam Schiff (CA-28)Kurt Schrader (OR-5)Bobby Scott (VA-3)Jose Serrano (NY-15)Terri Sewell (AL-7)Albio Sires (NJ-8)Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25)Adam Smith (WA-9)Jackie Speier (CA-14)Eric Swalwell (CA-15)Mark Takano (CA-41)Bennie Thompson (MS-2)Mike Thompson (CA-5)Dina Titus (NV-1)Paul Tonko (NY-20)Norma Torres (CA-35)Niki Tsongas (MA-3)Chris Van Hollen (MD-8)Juan Vargas (CA-51)Marc Veasey (TX-33)Nydia Velazquez (NY-7)Timothy Walz (MN-1)Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)Maxine Waters (CA-43)Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)Peter Welch (VT-At large)Frederica Wilson (FL-24)John Yarmuth (KY-3) ###
11.09.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the 2016 general election: "I am honored and grateful that the people of California's 35th district have elected me to a second term, and I will return to Washington ready to work with my Republican and Democratic colleagues and the new administration to continue fighting for the needs of my community. While the national election results were not what I hoped, the American people have spoken, and we must move forward. I am committed to doing everything in my power to ensure that in the next four years, we create jobs and grow the middle class, promote gender equality and social justice, and protect the rights and liberties of all Americans regardless of race, religion, or background. My constituents and this country deserve nothing less."
11.02.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) took part in the Airport Transfer Ceremony of Ontario International Airport. The ceremony marked the official completion of the transfer of control of the airport from Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) to the newly-formed Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA). “Today’s signing has been a long time coming and has truly been a team effort that shows what can be accomplished when this community comes together,” said Torres. “From passionate residents to public officials here in California and in Washington, DC, the transition to local control would not have been possible without the hard work of countless individuals who believe in the benefits this airport can bring to our region.” On August 6, 2015, after having assumed control of the airport 30 years before, LAWA announced its decision to restore local control of what was then called LA/Ontario International Airport. The transition depended on FAA approval, the creation of a new airport authority, and the passage of legislation allowing the transfer of funds from one airport authority to another. Torres had long advocated for local control of the airport and worked in Congress with Rep. Calvert and other members of the Inland Empire delegation to ensure passage of legislation that was necessary for the transfer to be completed. “Our region has so much untapped economic potential, and the airport stands to be a key catalyst for the Inland Empire’s future growth,” continued Torres. “Now that we have local control of our airport and a leadership team in place that truly understands and is invested in the region, we can get to work to increase air traffic, attract new businesses, and improve transportation connectivity. Today marks a new chapter for Ontario Airport and the Inland Empire, and I am thrilled to see what lies ahead.” OIAA Board President Alan Wapner served as Master of Ceremonies. Also in attendance were Senator Dianne Feinstein, Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona), Representative Grace Napolitano (D-El Monte), Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, State Treasurer John Chiang, Ontario Mayor Paul Leon, LA Board of Airport Commissioners President Sean Burton, LAWA CEO Deborah Flint, OIAA CEO Kelly Fredericks, FAA Administrator Michael Huerta, and Baseball Hall of Fame Inductee Tommy Lasorda. ###
10.28.2016	ONTARIO, CA – On October 25th, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a workshop at Cal Poly Pomona to help local officials and non-profit organizations find, apply, and obtain federal grant funding. “The federal government is expected to provide more than $66 billion in federal grants in 2016, and I want to make sure the 35th District gets its fair share,” said Torres. “There are so many organizations in our area with great ideas and worthy projects, but it can be difficult to not only find what funding is available but to also go on to write a compelling application that will stand out from the others coming in from around the country.” Staff from Torres’s office talked to participants about searching for grants and obtaining letters of support. A representative from Cal Poly Pomona discussed how to submit a competitive application, and representatives from the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, the National Park Service, and the La Verne Small Business Development Center talked about available funding opportunities. “I want to do everything I can to help our local governments and non-profits compete for federal funding and bring that money home, so it benefits the residents of the 35th District,” continued Torres. “Whether it’s writing letters of support, following up with agencies, or simply answering questions or pointing people in the right direction, my office is here to help.” Agencies and organizations seeking funding for projects in the 35th District should visit torres.house.gov/grant-applicants for additional resources and information about applying for federal grants. ###
10.27.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded two studies that revealed the significant economic impact of the Gold Line. The reports, prepared by The Maxima Group and Beacon Economics, quantified the economic growth that resulted from the Gold Line’s first segment and measured the potential development that could take place during Phase 2 of the project. “These studies prove what many of us already know: investing in transit boosts our local economies,” said Torres. “As people move further east and businesses look for opportunities to take advantage of everything this region has to offer, our transportation infrastructure must keep up, or we risk squandering all of our untapped economic potential.” According to the report, $6.7 billion of private capital has been invested along the corridor since it opened in 2003. Such investments include: 1,400 hotel rooms along the corridor, the creation of over 12,500 new housing units, and the establishment of 3.6 million square feet of commercial space. Nearly 50,000 indirect and direct construction jobs have been created along with 20,000 on-going jobs. It was also found that Phase 2 would add 17,000 more housing units and 10 million additional square feet of commercial space and would create tens of thousands of jobs both during the construction period and with the operation of new businesses. “The information released this week only reinforces the importance of extending the Gold Line into San Bernardino County and to Ontario Airport,” continued Torres. “While plans for the Gold Line currently end at the county line, our residents aren’t bound by these boundaries, and countless San Bernardino County residents commute long hours into LA. Rapid economic growth is expected as businesses move or expand into the Inland Empire, and that growth will only increase as Ontario airport transitions to local control and housing development continues. Comprehensive, regional transportation planning that includes a Gold Line expansion will give us the opportunity to create a truly interconnected region with more mobility options, a diverse economy, and vibrant livable communities.” The Gold Line Construction Authority released both reports on October 25th. The reports can be found in full HERE and HERE. ###
10.25.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the follow statement in response to recent reports of thousands of California National Guardsmen being required to repay enlistment bonuses that were given a decade ago: “As the mother of a veteran, I was deeply concerned to learn that members of the California National Guard who served admirably are being required to repay thousands of dollars in enlistment bonuses. These men and women put their lives on the line to defend our country. They shouldn’t be on the hook for mistakes made by the National Guard over a decade ago. I urge the Department of Defense to halt collections of these payments and to work to find a permanent solution that honors the promises made to these soldiers when they agreed to serve this nation. I also look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to address this issue as soon as possible.” ###
10.21.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) was awarded the National Association of Home Builders’ (NAHB) Defender of Housing Award at a reception hosted by the Building Industry Association of California Baldy View Chapter this Thursday at the Doubletree Hotel in Ontario. “It is an honor to receive this award from our local home builders,” said Torres. “Home builders were among the hardest hit by the recession, and measures that stabilize the housing market, keep families in their homes, and promote sustainable growth have been essential not only to our recovery but for the long-term prosperity of our communities.” According to NAHB, this biannual award is given to federal legislators who have demonstrated strong support for housing, home building, remodeling, and development and have supported NAHB’s positions on key issues facing the industry. “I’m committed to making sure the policy decisions made in Washington promote our local economy and make it easier for hardworking families to responsibly purchase a home and achieve the American Dream,” continued Torres. “I look forward to continuing to work with our homebuilders to promote sustainable growth and thriving communities and to help the Inland Empire reach its fullest economic potential. Torres has long been an advocate for affordable housing. During her time in the State Legislature, she led efforts to provide financial assistance to millions of California families negatively impacted by the great recession, helped secure $2 billion in federal funds for the “Keep Your Home California” program, passed the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights, and authored legislation to accelerate the construction of affordable housing, help delinquent homeowners refinance their second mortgages, and make it easier for returning veterans to purchase homes. ###
10.20.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a gathering of area organizations working to address the Zika crisis in Southern California at Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona. The participants provided an update on the ongoing impact of Zika on the region and discussed opportunities to coordinate efforts to prevent the spread of the disease. “The Zika virus continues to wreak havoc throughout Central and South America and the Caribbean and Zika-carrying mosquitos have even made their way to U.S. soil,” said Torres. “Now is the time to make sure our local agencies, health providers, and community organizations are doing everything they can to educate residents and combat the spread of the virus in Southern California.” There have been 335 confirmed cases of Zika in California, all travel-related. However, much remains unknown about the virus, including its long-term effects, the amount of time it can remain in the body, and methods of transmission. Participants in today’s meeting included representatives from the San Gabriel Valley Mosquito and Vector Control, the City of Pomona, Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, Pomona Valley Hospital, and Western University of Health Sciences. Ben Beard, MS, PhD, Deputy Incident Manager with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, participated via phone to provide participants with an update on the spread of the virus and on the most recent research being undertaken to understand and treat Zika. “Zika has no cure, and the effects can be absolutely devastating,” continued Torres. “The participants recognized how difficult it is to convince individuals to take the kinds of precautions necessary to prevent the spread of Zika - including heeding travel warnings, using mosquito repellant in Zika areas, and clearing standing water. However, I was encouraged to learn about steps that organizations like the San Gabriel Valley Mosquito and Vector Control and Planned Parenthood have taken to begin to educate residents as well as the eagerness of all of the participants to work together to learn from each other and maximize efforts to stop the spread of the virus. I hope to continue this dialogue and work to develop the kinds of partnerships needed to fight what is becoming a global epidemic.” Additional information on the Zika virus can be found at https://cdc.gov/zika and https://publichealth.lacounty.gov/media/zika/. ###
10.07.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) took part in a business roundtable meeting with UPS and several of their local partners to discuss issues important to Inland Empire business owners. The roundtable, hosted by UPS, took place on Wednesday at the Inland Empire United Way in Rancho Cucamonga. “The logistics industry is one of the primary economic drivers in the Inland Empire region with a wide range of inter-connected businesses dependent on this expansive industry,” said Torres. “The issues concerning the local businesses that rely on logistics are as diverse as the businesses themselves. The one thing that was clear was that their priorities went far beyond just seeing their own businesses grow and were focused on ensuring the Inland Empire is a thriving, livable community where we can all be proud to raise our families.” The 35th District is home to UPS’s Regional Air Hub in Ontario where many shipments are processed before being sent to destinations across the United States. In addition to discussing the business environment in the area, business owners also shared their views on topics ranging from homelessness to climate change to healthcare. Among the area employers participating in the roundtable were BJT Logistics Services, Inc., Aims Sports, US/Duty Gear, SC SK8, and others. “Listening to the concerns of local businesses is imperative to making sure what we do in Congress helps our local economies prosper,” continued Torres. “I appreciate UPS for bringing together this group of businesses so that we can continue to build on our dialogue with the business community. They are the ones on the ground, so it is my priority to get their input and understand their perspective as I craft my own legislative agenda.” Torres recently introduced H.R. 6112, the Communicating Lender Activity Reports from the Small Business Administration (CLEAR SBA) Act which will make it easier for small businesses to find available lenders and get the capital they need. She started her first term in Congress with a district-wide Job Creation Listening Tour where she heard from over 200 area business owners, community leaders, educational experts, and employees to get their views and ideas on the local economy. She released a white paper outlining a legislative plan based on the listening tour and a one-year update on the progress made on the plan. Both can be found here. ###
10.06.2016	ONTARIO, CA - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) and Admiral David Simpson, 9-1-1 Bureau Chief for the Federal Communications Commission, led a 9-1-1 Town Hall for Southern California emergency managers on Wednesday at the Ontario Convention Center. Earlier in the week, Torres and Simpson joined Ontario and San Bernardino County officials for a leadership breakfast and listening session before area leaders embarked on tours of local Public-Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) including Ontario Police Department, San Manuel Tribal Public Safety Facilities, and Cal-Fire. “With rapidly changing technology, shrinking budgets, and the growing threat of domestic terrorism, PSAPs are facing unprecedented challenges,” said Torres. “This week’s events gave area fire, police, and EMS leaders the opportunity to share their experiences and learn from each other as well as from industry experts on ways to improve emergency responsiveness.” Hosted by the City of Ontario and attended by emergency department managers from throughout Southern California, participants discussed Next Generation 911, funding and grant opportunities, and increasing the accuracy of alerts and emergency responses. They also took part in a demonstration of the ECaTS National 911 Dashboard Project by the Department of Homeland Security which allows for improved threat analysis, monitoring, and coordination. “As a former 9-1-1 dispatcher and current member of the House Homeland Security Committee, one of my most important responsibilities is staying abreast of issues facing the first responder community and making sure federal policies are supporting their efforts to protect our communities,” continued Torres. “I look forward to continuing to work with our area PSAPs to recognize the important role that dispatchers and 9-1-1 systems play and to make sure they have the resources they need to keep us safe.” Torres worked for 17 years as a dispatcher for LAPD. She is the author of H.R. 6063, the 911 Emergency Service Protection Act, which will hold accountable private equity firms that invest in emergency services companies. She is also leading efforts to change the classification of 9-1-1 dispatchers by the Office of Management and Budget from “Office and Support Personnel” to a “Protective Service Occupation.” Her recent op-ed on those efforts can be found here. ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced the Communicating Lender Activity Reports from the Small Business Administration (CLEAR SBA) Act which will make it easier for small businesses to find available lenders and get the capital they need to grow and succeed. “During my Job Creation Listening Tour, I heard time and again about the challenges small businesses face when trying to access small business loans, in particular a lack of information about resources and funding options,” said Torres. “My bill will help level the playing field by making the process of accessing capital easier for small business owners so they can grow their businesses and help the Inland Empire economy thrive.” The CLEAR SBA Act directs the Small Business Administration (SBA) to create a user-friendly database of lenders who issue small business loans that would be a one-stop shop for small businesses to conveniently search for lenders who provide loans that can meet each business’s needs. The database will include the number of loans issued by each lender, the total dollar amount of loans made by the lender, zip codes in which loans were issued, list of industries of loan recipients, and the number of loans issued to women-owned businesses, socially and economically disadvantaged businesses, and veteran-owned businesses. “At the Ontario Chamber of Commerce we strive every day to develop an environment that supports small businesses in the Greater Ontario Region,” said Peggi Hazlett, President/CEO of the Ontario Chamber of Commerce. “The CLEAR SBA Act provides another tool in the arsenal for our small business owners to link with needed capital to support their growth and success. Providing access to a one-stop database in their search for the appropriate lender that best fits their needs is such a valuable asset for our small businesses. The Ontario Chamber of Commerce applauds Congresswoman Norma Torres for introducing the CLEAR SBA Act to help drive growth and prosperity within the business community.” “The Pomona Chamber of Commerce is supportive of legislation that benefits the small business community,” said Erica Frausto, Executive Director of the Pomona Chamber of Commerce. “The Clear SBA Act would benefit small businesses by providing business owners with a tool that would make it easier for them to obtain capital to grow their businesses. Especially with small businesses, any advantage we can provide them is essential to their ability to survive and contribute to the economy. The bill will also give small business owners the confidence to take the next step toward realizing their entrepreneurial goals.” Upon beginning her first term in Congress, Rep. Torres embarked on a listening tour of the 35th District where she spoke to over 200 business owners, community leaders, educators, and employees about the challenges facing the Inland Empire economy and their ideas for bringing jobs to the area. The findings, recommendations, and ideas that came out of the tour were published in a report titled “A Roadmap to Economic Resilience in the Inland Empire.” An update on the progress made on those recommendations was published one year later. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - On September 20, 2016, The Hill published an op-ed by Rep. Norma Torres (D-Pomona) on the misguided classification by the Office of Management and Budget of 911 dispatchers as office staff rather than "Emergency Protective Service" personnel like other members of the first responder community. The op-ed can be found here and below: On any given day, a 911 dispatcher might direct police as a crime is in progress, provide lifesaving first aid, or speak to a caller on the brink of suicide. Dispatchers are critical members of the first responder community who use their specialized skills and training to save lives and keep communities safe. However, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has recently proposed that the position of “Public Safety Telecommunicator” be classified as an “Office and Administrative Support Occupation.” Such a classification is more than just grossly inaccurate. It diminishes the vital role dispatchers play and perpetuates a stereotype that impacts the resources available to dispatchers and 911 systems, particularly at a time when rapid technological changes are increasing demands on dispatchers. As a former 911 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department, I know that public safety telecommunicators are not just support staff. They are critical partners to our first responders who do far more than simply answer a phone and send for help. My fellow dispatchers work during life-or-death situations, often talking to callers in their greatest hour of need. They may be required to act as hostage negotiators, and as conversations between dispatchers and suspects are often Miranda exempt, testimony from dispatchers can serve as critical evidence during court proceedings. And during critical incidents such as large fires, civil unrest, or major weather events, telecommunicators are mobilized just like police and fire personnel. The decisions that dispatchers make not only impact the lives of callers, but the lives of many others. For example, in the immediate aftermath of the San Bernardino shooting, it was a 911 dispatcher who took the initial emergency call and helped law enforcement track down the shooters. Just like other first responders, public safety telecommunicators must remain calm and use their training to think quickly about how best to respond to an emergency, oftentimes when lives are on the line. Without the unique skills and abilities of our dispatchers, first responders would simply be unable to do their jobs. You would be hard-pressed to find personnel with this same support staff classification who are required to receive the kind of specialized training as public safety telecommunicators. Dispatchers must either obtain national or state certification, or a combination of the two, and national dispatcher certification associations often require advanced coursework to complete certification. For example, the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials (APCO) offers an emergency medical dispatcher certification which requires courses in anatomy and physiology, legal and liability issues, and stress management. Additionally, dispatchers often have to take additional exams offered by their potential employers, including a written exam to ensure knowledge of local law enforcement rules and procedures and are often tested regularly by their departments for knowledge of local, state, and federal laws. Initial and ongoing training is a vital part of a 911 dispatcher’s career, and these requirements clearly demonstrate that dispatchers must possess a level of knowledge and education that far exceeds what is generally required of administrative personnel. This is a specialized position that requires skilled professionals to use extensive training to make quick decisions in life or death situations. I recently wrote to OMB urging them to take this into account and appropriately categorize public safety telecommunicator as a “Protective Service Occupation.” If OMB intends to develop an accurate occupational classification structure, they should make this change and give our dispatchers the recognition and respect they deserve. ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the 911 Emergency Services Protection Act to hold Wall Street firms accountable when they invest in local emergency services companies. “If a private equity firm decides to invest in an emergency service company, they also take on the responsibility to provide those services to the level our communities expect,” said Torres. “Unfortunately, that doesn’t always happen, and the consequences can be tragic. This is why I introduced legislation to make sure there is transparency and accountability when Wall Street firms decide to invest in these vital community services.” The 911 Emergency Services Protection Act requires investment advisers who advise private funds that own a controlling interest in an emergency services company to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) the average response times of emergency vehicles deployed in response to 911 calls. Specifically, they would be required to report the change in average response times since the fund acquired a controlling interest and the percentage of response times that do not meet requirements set out in the contracts between local governments and emergency services companies. If response times are failing to meet contractual requirements, equity fund advisers will have to provide an explanation as to why times are failing to meet requirements and how this has impacted emergency services in the community. “When it comes to responding to an emergency, there is no margin for error, and under absolutely no circumstances should profit come before saving lives,” continued Torres, who served as a 911 dispatcher for 17 years. “My bill doesn’t prohibit private equity funds from investing in emergency services or place restrictions on how they choose to invest, but it does provide reassurance to residents that when they call 911, their lives won’t be put at risk because their local fire or ambulance service needs to turn a profit.” According to a June 26th New York Times article, since the 2008 financial crisis, private equity firms have invested in growing numbers in emergency services companies, in some cases with disastrous results. The article reported slow response times and mismanagement to the point that emergency service companies claimed their parent companies were not able to pay salaries or restock critical supplies. Last week, Torres introduced similar language as an amendment to H.R. 5424, the Investment Advisers Modernization Act of 2016. It was supported by 176 Members of Congress. The text of the bill can be found here. ###
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) offered an amendment to H.R. 5424, the Investment Advisers Modernization Act of 2016, to address growing concern that investment in local emergency services companies by private equity firms is negatively impacting fire and ambulance response times and potentially placing lives at risk. “My amendment will make sure there is accountability and transparency when private equity firms invest in emergency services companies,” said Torres. “Our constituents deserve to know that when they call 911, their lives won’t be put at risk because the people who own the local fire or ambulance service wants to turn a profit.” According to a June 26th New York Times article, since the 2008 financial crisis, private equity firms have invested in growing numbers in emergency services companies, in some cases with disastrous results. The article reported slow response times and mismanagement to the point that emergency service companies claimed their parent companies were not able to pay salaries or restock critical supplies. Torres’s amendment, offered as the Motion to Recommit, would require private equity firms to report the change in response time of emergency vehicles since the private fund acquired a controlling interest in the emergency services company. The report would also require data on the percent of emergency response times that violate contracts entered into by local governments and emergency services companies and the reason those times did not meet requirements. “Private equity firms can certainly play an important role in our communities by investing in businesses and creating jobs, but if a private equity firm decides to invest in an emergency service company, they also take on the responsibility to provide those services to the level residents expect,” continued Torres. “When it comes to responding to an emergency, there is no margin for error, and under absolutely no circumstances should profit come before saving lives.” Rep. Torres worked for over 17 years as a 911 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. The amendment failed by a vote of 176 to 232. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) sent a letter to the Office of Management and Budget to object to their classification of 911 dispatcher, or “public safety telecommunicator”, as an “Office and Administrative Support Occupation” in the draft Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) and to urge them to classify this position as a “Protective Service Occupation” in the final SOC structure. “As a former 911 dispatcher, I know that public safety telecommunicators are critical partners to our first responders who do far more than simply answer a phone and send for help,” said Torres. “Dispatchers work during life-or-death situations and on any given day might direct police to a crime that’s in progress, provide lifesaving first aid, or speak to a caller on the brink of suicide, and they, just like police, are mobilized during critical incidents like massive fires, civil unrest, or major weather events.” The SOC system is used by federal agencies to classify workers for purpose of collecting, calculating, disseminating data. OMB is currently in the process of revising the SOC for 2018 and has opened the draft for public comment until September 20th. “You would be hard-pressed to find ‘office and administrative support’ personnel required to receive the kind of extensive training required of dispatchers or working under such strenuous conditions,” continued Torres. “This is a specialized occupation that requires professionals to think critically and use their skills and training to help our first responders save lives and keep our communities safe. The current classification is not only inaccurate. It diminishes the important vital role dispatchers play and perpetuates a stereotype that impacts the resources available to dispatchers and 911 systems, particularly at a time of rapid technological changes and increasing demands.” Rep. Torres worked for 17 years as a dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. She has long advocated for greater resources for training and professionalization of the public safety telecommunicator workforce and for modernizing 911 systems across the country. A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
08.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), and Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the announcement by Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson that the Department will review its use of private contractors to operate immigration detention centers. This announcement follows the Department of Justice’s August 18th announcement that it will end its use of for-profit prisons. “We applaud the news that DHS will look into its use of privately-run immigrant detention facilities. The recent decision by DOJ was a recognition that privately-run prisons are not in the interest of taxpayers and fail to reliably provide humane and secure conditions for the incarcerated. We have those same concerns for privately-run immigrant detention facilities, particularly considering ICE currently houses almost 73 percent of detained immigrants in such facilities.1 “While we are pleased that DHS is taking steps to reconsider the role of private detention contractors, we continue to have grave concerns with the use of family detention and the detention of asylum seekers. Further, in those cases where detention is required, we encourage DHS to take steps to implement and enforce applicable detention standards and reassert its commitment to a system that ensures appropriate protections for individuals in its custody.” ### 1 Steven Nelson, “Private Prison Companies, Punched in the Gut, Will Keep Most Federal Business.” U.S. News & World Report, August 18, 2016.
08.17.2016	ONTARIO, CA –Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement regarding the announcement that the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension project from Azusa to Montclair was not selected to receive cap-and-trade funding as a part of the 2016 Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program. “I’m extremely disappointed that the California State Transportation Agency (CalSTA) did not award cap-and-trade funding to the Gold Line Foothill extension project,” said Torres. “The second phase of the extension project from Azusa to Montclair will reduce traffic on the 210 and 10 Freeways and improve public transportation options for thousands of residents in the Inland Empire. CalSTA has missed an important opportunity to invest in public transportation and fund this promising project, which ultimately will reduce greenhouse gases and ease congestion in Southern California.”
08.11.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded the City of Pomona with a $69,550 grant to combat human trafficking and prostitution. “Human trafficking and prostitution prey on the young and the vulnerable, often trapping them in a world of drugs, violence, and emotional abuse,” said Torres. “Beyond the unspeakable pain of those involved, they also lead to rising crime levels across the community. I am proud to see the City of Pomona is taking action to combat this dangerous epidemic and that they will be getting much needed support from the Department of Justice in these efforts.” Last month, Pomona Police released six months of human trafficking data where they announced they had arrested 306 people for prostitution and related crimes over that time. The city was awarded an FY16 DOJ Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) which can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice in a variety of program areas. Pomona will specifically use these funds to provide additional funding to conduct enhanced human trafficking and prostitution enforcements. “Federal funding like that from the JAG program is critical to making sure law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to protect and serve our communities,” continued Torres. “At a time when police budgets across the country are under increased pressure, these grants help our local law enforcement build the vital partnerships across agencies and within the community that are critical to keeping us safe.” During the Fiscal Year 2016 congressional appropriations process Rep. Torres signed onto a letter specifically requesting strong funding for the JAG program in the FY16 Commerce, Justice, and Science appropriations bill which funds programs in the Department of Justice. ###
08.09.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a “Back-to-School Day” to meet with Inland Empire students, teachers and school administrators and encourage them to work hard and have a great year. “A quality education system is the foundation of a growing, resilient local economy,” said Torres. “Making sure our kids get a solid education doesn’t just make them better, it benefits our entire community. With students across the 35th District heading back to the classrooms, I wanted to take today to bring increased attention to the impressive strides our area schools have made and to closely examine the challenges they continue to face.” Torres began the day by talking to teachers at Lexington Elementary School and Garey High School in Pomona to get their on-the-ground perspective and give them encouragement as they begin the new school year. She then went to Ontario to learn about the Ontario Montclair School District’s school nutrition program, the most comprehensive student nutrition services feeding program in the state of California. This was followed by a meeting with the Fontana Unified School District to discuss their plans for the year. Torres ended the day at the InTech Center at Chaffey College where she was joined by members of her Youth Advisory Committee to examine how Chaffey has used funding from the U.S. Department of Labor to create an industrial and technical training center that works with area employers to provide apprenticeship opportunities and hands-on experience to train students for in-demand jobs. “In order for our students to succeed and remain competitive in the global economy, we must provide a solid educational foundation that begins in their early years and continues through to college and career training,” continued Torres. “It was inspiring to meet so many enthusiastic and dedicated teachers, volunteers, employees, and administrators who are working tirelessly to help our young people succeed. Through their hard work and the innovative services our local schools and colleges are developing, they have laid the groundwork for student success and are building the diverse, dynamic local workforce the Inland Empire economy depends on.” In addition to today’s events, Rep. Torres will also be hosting a U.S. Service Academy Information Night for area middle and high school students and their parents to learn about the opportunities available and the application process. Additional information can be found HERE. ###
08.02.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) will join National Night Out festivities throughout the 35th district, taking part in the celebrations in Fontana, Montclair, Ontario, and Pomona. “At a time when community-police relations throughout the country have become increasingly strained, events like National Night Out help build trust between the police and the communities they serve,” said Torres. “As a former member of my own neighborhood watch, I know we can all play a part in keeping our neighborhoods safe. While this event only comes around once a year, I hope local residents and law enforcement will leave tonight with a renewed commitment to strengthen the ties that make for a create for safe, vibrant communities.” National Night Out is an annual, nation-wide event that promotes neighborhood camaraderie and community-police partnerships. Neighborhoods across the country join their local law enforcement agencies to host block parties, festivals, cookouts, and other community events along with demonstrations by emergency personnel, seminars, and exhibits. In addition to getting to know their local law enforcement officers and taking part in their own neighborhood watch groups, constituents are encouraged to consider the following helpful tips to help prevent crime and promote safer neighborhoods: Lighting is one of the most important crime deterrents. Consider installing lights on a timer to give would-be thieves the impression that people are home. Follow your instincts. If you think someone is following you, switch directions or cross the street. If the person continues to follow you, move quickly toward an open store, restaurant, lit house, or more populated area. Make sure your family, especially children, know when and how to dial 9-1-1. Help your child memorize their own address and phone number. Look up your local police and emergency services departments and keep important phone numbers in an easily accessible location. Only use 9-1-1 is cases of emergency. Direct non-emergency calls to 3-1-1 or the appropriate non-emergency number in your community to help keep 9-1-1 lines open for true emergencies and life-threatening situations. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded the Senate’s passage of legislation that will allow for the transfer of Passenger Facility Charges collected at Ontario Airport (ONT) to Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA). This legislation is necessary to complete the transfer of LA/Ontario International Airport to local control and has now passed both the House and the Senate as part of a broader bill extending Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) programs. “Without this legislation, the long-overdue agreement to transfer control of Ontario Airport could not move forward,” said Torres. “Now that both the Senate and the House have approved this measure, and it is poised to be signed by the President, we have cleared a major hurdle in the transfer process and are one step closer to finally getting local control of our airport.” As part of the settlement agreement, $120 million of passenger facility revenue collected at ONT is to be used for FAA qualified capital projects at LAX. $50 million of that will come from existing passenger facility fees that are controlled by LAWA but were collected at Ontario. The remaining $70 million will come from future passenger facility charges collected at ONT within the next 10 years. However, Congress needed to pass legislation to allow the transfer of funds from one airport authority to another; otherwise the FAA will not approve the agreement and grant the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA) its certificate to operate. “Ontario Airport is poised to become a major economic driver for the Inland Empire,” Torres continued. “Having a management team in place that understands the region and has only the interests of this airport in mind will help the airport expand and take full advantage of its strategic location and our region’s potential for economic growth. I look forward to the process of transferring control being completed shortly.” Standalone legislation allowing for the transfer of fees had passed the House of Representatives on June 21, 2016, but was awaiting the Senate’s approval. This measure was then included in H.R. 636, a broad bill extending Federal Aviation Administration programs through September 30, 2017, which passed the House unanimously this past Monday and passed the Senate this afternoon. It is expected to be signed by the President by July 15th. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Members of the Congressional Central America Caucus met with Juan Orlando Hernandez, the President of Honduras. Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus, was joined by Caucus Members John R. Moolenaar (R-MI), Reid J. Ribble (R-WI), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). Today’s meeting comes one day after Torres led a letter signed by 77 other Members of Congress calling on President Obama to grant Temporary Protected Status to individuals from Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala in the United States who have fled violence in their home country. “This has been an eventful year for Honduras with several encouraging signs of progress in the establishment of the MACCIH and the work of the Police Reform Commission, but there have also been some very troubling developments, particularly on the human rights front,” said Torres. “I greatly appreciated President Hernandez joining us today to discuss both the challenges and opportunities facing his country and how we can work together to create opportunity, promote security, and protect human rights and the rule of law so that all Hondurans see a life for themselves in their country.” In the meeting, Caucus Members expressed their continued interest in working with the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador to advance governance, security, and prosperity. They also learned about efforts made by the Government of Honduras to meet the conditions established by Congress in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Some Members expressed interest in expanding collaboration with the government of Honduras in the area of counter-narcotics, and others voiced their concern about the human rights situation in Honduras, especially the recent killing of human rights activists Berta Cáceres, Nelson Garcia, René Martinez, and Lesbia Janeth Urquía. Additionally, Rep. Torres emphasized the need to strengthen the Office of the Attorney General (Ministerio Público) in Honduras, including ensuring that the Office receives sufficient budgetary resources to carry out its basic responsibilities. “The Central America Caucus is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue with government officials, non-governmental organizations, and civil society in the region to make sure our assistance to the Northern Triangle countries goes where it is intended and is yielding results,” continued Torres. “Today’s meeting gave us the opportunity to hear straight from President Hernandez his view of the progress that has been made and his plans for Honduras’s future.” The Congressional Central America Caucus was founded by Rep. Torres on February 24, 2016. It currently consists of 34 bipartisan Members of Congress and is co-Chaired by Rep. David Valadao (R-CA). ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded the recent release of House Democrats’ new “Make It in America” plan, a comprehensive legislative strategy to grow and strengthen the American economy. The plan includes two of Rep. Torres’s bills, H.R. 2485, the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act (RIAA), a bill to help fill the infrastructure funding gap, and H.R. 2601, the Job Opportunities between Our Shores (JOBS) Act, which would connect educational institutions with manufacturers to give workers the training and skills they need to find jobs in growing industries. “I was proud to join Whip Hoyer last year during the ‘Make It in America: What’s Next?’ hearing series to explore how our jobs plan can respond to new challenges as well as new opportunities in today’s economy,” said Rep. Torres. “What we found reflected what I learned during my own Job Creation Listening Tour of the 35th District – our infrastructure system is failing to keep up with our growing economy and too many good-paying jobs are going unfilled, because employers can’t find employees with the skills they need. RIAA and the JOBS Act will help address these challenges, and I was happy to see them both included in the House Democrats’ new jobs plan.” Last year, Torres joined other Members of Congress, representatives from labor and business, entrepreneurs, innovators, and educators during the “Make It in America: What’s Next?” hearing series to explore how the economy has changed since the “Make It in America” plan was first introduced in 2010 and what families and businesses need to succeed in today’s economy. The new “Make It in America” plan focuses on four themes that build on the ideas explored during the hearing series: Expand Entrepreneurship & Innovation Close the Skills Gap Build a 21st Century Infrastructure Break Down Barriers to Manufacturing in the US. “I’m pleased to include two bills introduced by Rep. Torres in the new Make It In America plan,” said Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) who visited the 35th District in 2014 and learned first-hand the economic challenges facing the Inland Empire. “The JOBS Act would help ensure current and prospective employees are equipped with the skills needed in today’s economy, and the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act would help ensure we have the 21st century infrastructure we need to attract and retain businesses here in the U.S. I thank Rep. Torres for introducing these bills to help close the skills gap, build the infrastructure we need to remain competitive, and ensure more of our workers can make it in America.” For more information on the “Make It in America” plan, click here for a fact sheet and here for background information on the plan over the past several years. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the recent attack on 11 Dallas police officers, and the police involved shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “As the mother of a police officer, I was shocked and saddened by the ambush in Dallas last night that took the lives of five police officers during an otherwise peaceful demonstration. There is no excuse for this kind of violence - ever. The police shootings of this past week were a horrific reminder that there are systemic issues within law enforcement, and those are issues that we must work as a nation to solve. Last night’s attack should not be a reflection on the thousands who have peacefully taken to the streets to demand change. During my time as a 911 dispatcher for LAPD and as a Mayor and local official, I had the honor of working with many dedicated police officers who were committed to building ties with the community and making their neighborhoods better for everyone. The actions of a few should not diminish the hard work and sacrifices of all of the men and women who put their lives on the line to keep us safe. We cannot function as a society if the community fears law enforcement nor if law enforcement fears the people they are sworn to protect. Passions are running high on every side of this issue, but now is a time for calm, for healing, and for peace. Let us listen to one another, respect one another, and work together to make sure that every American, regardless of race, creed, or line of work, can live a life free of hate and violence.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district. She is currently a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and previously worked for 17 years as a 911 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. ###
06.30.2016	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) convened a roundtable meeting in Pomona with activists, community and religious leaders, and families impacted by gun violence to share ideas for how to address the growing gun violence epidemic. This meeting was part of the National Day of Action on Gun Violence Prevention where House Democrats across the country held events to build on the momentum from last week’s historic 26 hour sit-in on the House floor. “Last week, House Democrats took to the House floor, because we were tired of Congress holding moments of silence to express our sympathy and grief after mass shootings, then doing absolutely nothing to prevent another tragedy from happening again,” said Torres. “We haven’t been allowed to hold a single hearing on this issue, let alone take a vote on common sense, widely-supported legislation. We decided enough is enough.” Today’s meeting was held at the Macedonia Baptist Church – Community Service Center. In attendance were representatives from the Brady Campaign Pomona Valley Chapter, the San Bernardino Diocese, Tri City Mental Health, NAACP Pomona Valley Chapter, Cal Poly Pomona, Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, City of Pomona, Fontana Unified School District, Claremont Unified School District, and others. “Across the country, Brady's supporters are leading demonstrations at congressional district offices, keeping up the fight to reduce gun violence,” said David Draper, President of the Brady Campaign Pomona Valley Chapter, who attended today’s event. “We are demanding that lawmakers, upon returning to work in Washington, allow a vote on legislation to expand Brady background checks to all gun sales and keep guns out of dangerous hands.” “There is no question we have a problem, but the only way to solve it is to come together and have a real dialogue about the issues,” continued Torres. “Today’s meeting was an important opportunity to build on the incredible groundswell of support we saw last week by bringing together people who have long been working to address gun violence and hear straight from them what they think we should do to address the problem and keep the community engaged.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district, serves on the House Homeland Security Committee, and is a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. She previously worked for 18 years as a 911 dispatcher and during the sit-in, shared her story of hearing an eleven year old girl shot to death. ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded the passage of H.R. 4369, legislation that will allow for the transfer of Passenger Facility Charges collected at Ontario Airport to Los Angeles World Airports. This legislation is necessary to complete the transfer of LA/Ontario International Airport to local control. “Without this bill, the long-overdue agreement to transfer control of Ontario Airport cannot move forward. I applaud the House for taking up this legislation and urge my colleagues in the Senate to help bring it across the finish line,” said Torres, whose district includes Ontario Airport. “Times have changed since LAWA first took over Ontario Airport. It is now time to put a leadership team in place that understands the region and only has the best interest of this airport and the Inland Empire in mind as they shape the airport’s future. This bill will help us do that so that Ontario Airport can finally have the capability to meet rising demands and better serve the needs of Inland Empire residents.” As part of the settlement agreement, $120 million of passenger facility revenue collected at ONT will be used for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) qualified capital projects at LAX. $50 million of that will come from existing passenger facility fees that are controlled by LAWA but were collected at Ontario. The remaining $70 million will come from future passenger facility charges collected at ONT within the next 10 years. However, Congress must pass legislation to allow the transfer of funds from one airport authority to another. Without H.R. 4369, the FAA will not approve the agreement and grant the Ontario International Airport Authority its certificate to operate. "Today's passage by the House represents a major milestone towards finalizing transfer of ONT to the Ontario International Airport Authority and local control,” said Kelly Fredericks, CEO of the Ontario International Airport Authority. “The continued support and efforts by our Congressional Delegation have been simply amazing, and much needed." H.R. 4369 was cosponsored by all of the members of the Inland Empire congressional delegation. Identical companion legislation has been introduced by Senator Dianne Feinstein in the Senate. H.R. 4369 passed the House of Representatives unanimously. ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) requested an update from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the implementation of next generation 911 (NG911) systems across the country and the impact diverting local and state 911 fees has had on emergency services. NG911 systems use IP-based technology to receive data from a wider range of devices and mediums and provide more accurate locating capabilities than the older 911 infrastructure. The National 911 Program, housed within the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s Office of Emergency Medical Services, is providing federal leadership in supporting the nationwide adoption of NG911. However, the implementation of NG911 has been inconsistent and many jurisdictions lack adequate funding to make the technological investments and provide the training necessary. “As we saw with this week’s release of the Orlando shooter’s 911 transcripts, in times of crisis, dispatchers are a key resource and often act as important witnesses. Unfortunately, their ability to perform their duties effectively is being hampered by underfunded 911 emergency telecommunications systems that have failed to keep up with changing technology,” said Rep. Torres, a former 911 dispatcher. “In order to efficiently respond to emergencies, dispatchers must be able to obtain as much accurate information as quickly possible. However, under our current patchwork system, calls are being delayed or misdirected and vital information may never reach emergency personnel.” "Upgrading our nation's 911 system is a critical investment for the safety of every American," said Rep. Eshoo, co-founder of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus. “With over 70 percent of the 240 million 911 calls each year coming from wireless devices, it is clear we need to take immediate action to modernize how our PSAPs answer these calls. For years, Congress and members of the NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus have pushed for a nationwide transition to a NextGen 9-1-1 system to bridge this divide, but more progress is needed. I’m hopeful the GAO can shine a light on the challenges we face and provide policymakers at all levels of government with a path forward.” In their letter, Reps. Torres and Eshoo ask GAO to provide an update on the nationwide implementation of NG911 and ask how the federal government can further assist in those efforts. They also request additional information on how the diversion by some states of 911 emergency fees to other programs has affected the ability of communities to provide emergency services. Rep. Torres is a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security. Rep. Eshoo is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. The full text of the letter can be found below and here. June 16, 2016 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro, We request the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a thorough review of the implementation of a nationwide next generation 9-1-1 (NG911) system and provide an update on the status of this transition. The growing use of wireless and Internet Protocol (IP)-based communications has demonstrated the need to upgrade and modernize our nation’s 9-1-1 system to process all types of 9-1-1 traffic from any device including voice, data, and video, and provide the accurate location of the caller seeking emergency services. The federal government has taken an active interest in fostering an NG911 system. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s Office of Emergency Medical Services is tasked with overseeing the National 9-1-1 Program and providing federal leadership to assist state and local governments in their transition to a NG911 system. However, progress has been slow and sporadic, and we’re concerned that NG911 implementation is not consistent across the country, leaving us with a patchwork system that is unable to respond to emergencies as effectively as possible. In light of these concerns, we ask the GAO to address the following questions in its review: What is the status of NG911 implementation? How, if at all, do current federal efforts such as federal appropriations or technical expertise support nationwide implementation of NG911? What challenges, if any, do Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) face in implementing NG911? What is the impact of state diversion of 911 emergency fees on PSAPs and their ability to serve the community? What authority does Congress have or what authority would Congress need to prevent state diversion of 911 emergency fees? How are 911 fees and federal funds used to help train 911 dispatchers in new and emerging technologies, to assist them improve the delivery of emergency services? 6. Considering that many 911 call centers have not adopted NG911 technologies or implemented training in these technologies to its dispatchers, what funding could the federal government provide to help ensure centers are able to invest in new technology and training? In addition to these questions, we request that you update us on any other issues of concern that you may uncover during your review of our nation’s NG911 implementation. Should you have any questions please contact Grant Kerr with Representative Torres or Matthew McMurray with Representative Eshoo. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Ranking Member Subcommittee on Communications and Technology House Committee on Energy and Commerce Norma J. Torres Member House Committee on Homeland Security ###
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – This Tuesday, the House of Representatives is set to debate and vote on H.R. 4369, key legislation necessary to complete the transfer of LA/Ontario International Airport to local control. “Despite our strategic location in a growing region at the center of an important freight movement system, Ontario Airport has been neglected for far too long, impacting passenger numbers and our region’s potential for economic growth,” said Torres, whose congressional district includes the airport. “The bill that will be considered on the floor this week is a crucial and necessary step to finally completing the process to transfer Ontario Airport to local control.” Under the settlement agreement the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA) is required to pay Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) $50 million in passenger facility charges in the first five years and another $70 million in the following five years. However, Congress must pass legislation allowing for this transfer of funds from one airport authority to another to take place and ultimately for the Federal Aviation Administration to approve the agreement and grant OIAA its certificate to operate. “Regaining local control of Ontario Airport will provide the airport with the necessary resources and attention needed for it to grow to meet rising demands and better serve the needs of the Inland Empire region,” continued Torres. “I appreciate Rep. Calvert working with me to bring this important legislation to the floor as well as the support of Inland Empire congressional delegation so that we can finalize the transition process and help Ontario Airport reach its full potential.” H.R. 4369 is expected to be debated on the House floor on Tuesday afternoon. Once approved, it will go to the Senate for consideration. Senator Dianne Feinstein has also introduced identical legislation in the Senate, S. 2442, that is yet to be considered. ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives will debate an amendment offered by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) that removes a provision from H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability At (PROMESA) that allows the minimum wage to be lowered for workers under 25. “The minimum wage provision in this bill is bad for young workers, and it’s bad for Puerto Rico,” said Torres. “It does not fix the island’s problems and in the long run, may make them worse. The island is already experiencing a mass exodus of young people. Lowering wages will only compel more young people to leave and will have a detrimental impact on Puerto Rico’s current and future workforce, its tax base, and ultimately its ability to repay its debt.” Under the current bill, the Governor of Puerto Rico can request to the Puerto Rico Oversight and Control Board the authority to lower the minimum wage for workers age 25 and under to $4.25 for four years. Additionally, the bill is not clear on whether the Governor can only request the wage reduction once for a period of four years or can renew the request every four years, thereby maintaining the lower wage indefinitely for as long as the Control Board is in place. “Lowering the minimum wage sets a troubling precedent, particularly given the uncertainty regarding the bill’s language,” continued Torres. “If we want to help Puerto Rico overcome this current crisis, we need to make sure the island is a place where young people can see a future, start a family, and grow a business, not a place that devalues their work and their contributions. There is no question that Puerto Rico will need to make sacrifices, but it can’t do so on the backs of these hard-working, young American citizens.” The amendment was made in order by the House Committee on Rules yesterday evening and was cosponsored by Reps. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Lois Capps (D-CA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), and Jared Polis (D-CO). Torres had previously offered this amendment when the bill was reviewed by the House Natural Resources Committee. However, the amendment was ruled non-germane, because that portion of the legislation was not under the purview of the Committee, and the amendment did not receive a vote. ###
05.01.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) marked the start of Small Business Week (May 1-7) by releasing a one-year update to her jobs plan. A Roadmap to Economic Resilience – One Year Later details the progress made on key recommendations to foster small business growth and entrepreneurship and create jobs in the Inland Empire. “Small businesses are the engine that drives our local economy, and in order for them to thrive, we need to build a robust, dynamic local economy and develop an educated, qualified workforce,” said Torres. “The report I released last year laid out a comprehensive agenda that would help us achieve that, and I’m excited to share with Inland Empire residents the progress we’ve made so far.” The original report, titled A Roadmap to Economic Resilience in the Inland Empire, was released May 1, 2015 and came about as a result of the input, ideas, and suggestions Torres received from members of the community during the Job Creation Listening Tour she launched shortly after beginning her first term in Congress. Torres met with over 200 local economic leaders, education professionals, business owners, and employees to help develop a plan that focused on investing in the region’s infrastructure, developing the Inland Empire’s workforce, helping small businesses succeed, and diversifying the local economy. “From getting parts of my infrastructure funding bill signed into law to working with federal officials to make sure the local transfer of Ontario Airport goes smoothly, we have accomplished a lot over this past year,” continued Torres. “I look forward to building on this progress and continuing to work with local residents to build a strong, resilient Inland Empire economy.” A pdf of the update can be found by clicking HERE. ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced the Tribal Early Childhood, Education, and Related Services Integration Act, a bill that seeks to expand early education opportunities and close the achievement gap between Native and Non-Native children by making it easier for tribes to apply for support for early childhood education services. “Native youth continue to lag behind their Non-Native peers in high school graduation, national math and reading assessments, and even the number of kindergarteners held back,” said Torres. “The research has shown that school readiness and educational attainment is linked to the quality of early childhood development opportunities, yet we currently have a system for tribes to fund these programs that is mired in red tape, redundancy, and confusion.” The legislation introduced today amends the Native American Programs Act of 1972 to create a demonstration project that lets tribes coordinate the six different Department of Health and Human Services tribal early childhood education programs. It allows for technical assistance and training and statutory and regulatory waivers to promote flexibility and innovation and optimizes application and reporting requirements for improved accountability. The bill also provides for additional funding to improve tribal early childhood facilities and educator recruitment and retention and extends federal education loans forgiveness for tribal early childhood educators. “Education is the foundation of economic success for both individuals and their communities,” continued Torres. “If we want tribes to thrive and have the ability to provide greater opportunities for their members, they need to have the educational resources necessary to build robust, lasting economic growth. My bill will help streamline the process to receive needed funding so that tribes can provide the resources their children need and put their youth on a path to future success.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and serves on the House Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Subcommittee on Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native Affairs. Companion legislation to the Tribal Early Childhood, Education, and Related Service Integration Act has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) where it is currently before the Committee on Indian Affairs. ###
04.23.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a Veterans Resource Fair to provide local veterans with information on resources available to them and their families. Veterans also had the opportunity to sit down and meet one-on-one with service officers from the Department of Veterans of Affairs to get help on pending claims. “Far too many of our local veterans are struggling, whether it’s to find a job, get health care, or secure an affordable place to live, but many are unware of the resources that are there to help,” said Rep. Torres. “Today’s event brings those resources to them, so they can learn about the many local, state, and federal programs available as well as the organizations that are working on their behalf.” Rep. Torres was joined by representatives from the VA Los Angeles Regional Office, the San Bernardino County VA, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Cal Poly Pomona Vet Center, Chaffey Community College, VA Loma Linda, the Office of Assemblymember Freddie Rodriguez, the IRS, 211 Vet Link, California Department of Veteran Affairs (CalVet), the San Bernardino Vet Center, VA Women’s Health Program, New Horizons Career Development Solutions, and the Veterans Economic Community Initiative (VECI). “While I continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address long-term issues like veterans homelessness, health care accessibility, and the unacceptably long claims backlog, I hope the veterans who participated left here with useful information and the comfort of knowing they have a community who is looking out for them,” continued Torres. “If they were unable to get the information they needed today, my door is always open, and I urge them to contact my Ontario office for help.” Today’s event took place at the Montclair Community Center at 5111 Benito Street from 9:00am to 1:30pm. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) will host a Veterans Resource Fair to provide local veterans with information on resources available to them and their families and to give veterans the opportunity to meet one-on-one with service officers from the VA for help with their claims. This event is free and open to the public, however appointments are required for claims assistance. What: Resource Fair for local veterans with the opportunity to receive one-on-one claims assistance Who: Rep. Norma J. Torres, resource officers from the Department of Veterans Affairs, and representatives from the VA Los Angeles Regional Office , San Bernardino County VA, Loma Linda VA, IRS, Cal Poly Pomona Vet Center, Chaffey College, the office Assemblymember Freddie Rodriguez, San Bernardino County Vet Center, 211 United Way, Cal Vet, and others. When: Saturday, April 23, 2016 9:00am – 1:30pm Program start time 9:00am. Registration begins at 8:30am Where: Montclair Community Center 5111 Benito Street Montclair, CA 91763 RSVP: For more information or to set an appointment, call Michael Cervantes at (909) 481-6474 or email michael.cervantes@mail.house.gov. ###
04.01.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) unveiled the winner of the 35th District’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition at an awards ceremony and exhibition yesterday evening at the Museum of History & Art, Ontario. The winning piece, Maybe Tomorrow You’ll Become What You Say by Dalia Marin of A.B. Miller High School, was selected out of 41 pieces submitted from 40 participants representing eight high schools throughout the district. “The quantity and quality of this year’s submissions were very impressive and serve as an important reminder of just how much the arts enrich lives and enliven our community,” said Torres. “Whether these students become the next Picasso or never pick up a paintbrush again, the arts have helped them expand their creativity and develop skills that apply to all aspects of their academic and professional lives.” Unlike last year’s competition, this year’s participants were given a theme, Imagine Tomorrow, on which to base their artwork. The pieces displayed reflected a broad interpretation of that theme, focusing on issues ranging from bullying to the environment to technological advances. In describing her winning painting Marin said, “I’ve imagined many times people becoming what they say and making them eat their words to become what they eat.” Her piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for one year, and she is invited to a reception in Washington, DC, honoring winners from throughout the United States. She will also receive two roundtrip tickets courtesy of Southwest Airlines and a scholarship to Savannah College of Art and Design. “Whether their art work was positive or pessimistic, it has been enlightening to see the future through the eyes of the young people in our community,” continued Torres. “I was inspired by all of the young talent living right here in the 35th District, and I cannot wait to see what the future holds for Dalia and the other young artists exhibiting today.” Winners were selected by a panel of expert judges which included Michele Cairella Filmore, Curator of the Kellogg and Huntley University Art Galleries at Cal Poly Pomona and the Art Consultant/Curator of the LAUSD Art & Artifact Collection & Archives, Edward Gonzalez, local photographer with more than 15 years of professional experience and owner of Kpups Photography. ###
03.10.2016	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) held a round table meeting at the Ontario Police Department for local, state, and federal public safety officials to discuss ongoing threats to the region and how they can work together to keep communities safe. Today’s meeting was a follow-up to a similar meeting held in August 2015. “Since our last Public Safety Round Table, our community suffered a horrific terrorist attack right in our own backyard,” said Torres. “It was a stark reminder that no community is immune to the threat of terrorism and proved how important it is for law enforcement officials at all levels of government to have a productive working relationship. When seconds matter, I want to be sure our local law enforcement officials are able to put faces to the names of our federal partners and know exactly whom to call when issues arise.” Participating in today’s meeting were representatives from law enforcement agencies across the 35th congressional district as well as: David Bowdich, FBI Assistant Director in Charge of Los Angeles Field Office; Tony Frangipane, DHS Director of Field Operations for Southwest Region; Cedric Cherry, FEMA Program Specialist; Darren Tsang, CalOES Unit Supervisor of Homeland Security Grant Program; and Mark Pazin, CalOES Chief of Emergency Services Law Enforcement Branch. “Federal law enforcement and homeland security officials are looking at the larger picture of keeping our nation safe and have significant resources at their disposal, but it is the local law enforcement agencies that are the eyes and ears of the community,” continued Torres. “Building these relationships and finding more opportunities for collaboration will not only save time and resources but ultimately, save lives. The terrorist threats we face are evolving rapidly, and I look forward to continuing to foster an ongoing dialogue and partnership between our local leaders, the FBI, and DHS to keep our communities safe.” Rep. Torres serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security. During her first term in Congress, she introduced H.R. 3842, legislation that makes improvements and permanently authorized the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers, and H.R. 3878, a bill that would strengthen cooperation and information sharing at our nation’s ports. Both bills passed the House of Representatives in December of last year. ###
03.08.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) presided over the “Celebration of Heroes” Battle Color Ceremony performed by the United States Marine Corps Battle Color Detachment at Chaffey High School in Ontario. Today’s ceremony was part of the Battle Color Detachment’s 2016 National Tour and was free and open to the public. “The Battle Color Detachment is the public face of the Marine Corps with their skill, discipline, and rich history perfectly embodying the spirit of the Marines,” stated Torres. “As the mother of a veteran, it was an honor and truly humbling to preside over today’s ceremony and to meet the incredibly talented young Marines carrying on this important tradition.” The Battle Color Detachment is a ceremonial unit from Marine Barracks Washington, consisting of over 100 Marines hand selected for their tour at “The Oldest Post of the Corps.” The Battle Color Ceremony features The United States Marine Corps Silent Drill Platoon, The Official Color Guard of the Marine Corps, and The United States Marine Drum & Bugle Corps, commonly referred to as “The Commandant’s Own.” “It was such a treat to have the Battle Color Detachment perform right here in Ontario,” continued Torres. “They were an impressive reminder to our community of the incredible men and women who sacrifice so much to keep us safe, and I hope that those who were able to witness this performance walked away feeling not only grateful, but proud of those who wear our country’s uniform.” The Battle Color Ceremony is a unique display of pageantry and precision that is intended to increase morale for Marines and other service members, both former and active, and is used as a recruiting tool for surrounding communities. Earlier this year, Rep. Torres announced her nominations to the United States service academies, including the Naval Academy where future Marines serve. The academies provide a free education and train commissioned officers for the Armed Forces. Students interested in pursuing a nomination to the service academies in upcoming years are encouraged to visit https://torres.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations for additional information. ###
02.25.2016	RESUMEN DE REUNIÓN ENTRE REP. NORMA TORRES Y CAUCUS DE ASUNTOS CENTROAMERICANOS Y EL PRESIDENTE DE GUATEMALA JIMMY MORALES WASHINGTON, DC – Congresista Norma Torres (D-CA) y miembros del recién-formado Caucus de Asuntos Centroamericanos se reunieron con el Presidente Jimmy Morales de Guatemala. Antes de la reunión con el Caucus, Morales y Torres, presidenta del Caucus y la primera congresista de origen guatemalteco, se reunieron por separado. Durante su reunión, Presidente Morales y Congresista Torres hablaron sobre los retos que enfrentan guatemaltecos repatriados e iniciativas para mejorar las condiciones en cuanto regresen a Guatemala y Morales renovó su solicitud para el TPS para guatemaltecos en Estados Unidos. Torres elogió el trabajo de la CICIG y la Fiscal General Thelma Aldana que ha resultado en una serie de investigaciones sobre la corrupción y violación de derechos humanos y la destitución del cargo de varios funcionarios públicos, incluyendo el Presidente anterior. En la reunión con el Caucus, Morales le dio un resumen de sus primeros 40 días en su nuevo cargo. Miembros le preguntaron cómo los Estados Unidos puede ayudar mejor al pueblo guatemalteco. Morales comentó que lo más importante es abordar las raíces de los problemas en el país–la desnutrición infantil crónica, la educación y la falta de infraestructura que ha paralizado la economía. Él menciono específicamente un proyecto infraestructural recientemente comenzado que había sido financiado pero había quedado por realizar debido a incompetencia política. Otros miembros del Caucus hablaron sobre asuntos de violencia de género, migración, asistencia alimentaria de E.E.U.U. y la necesidad de crear un ambiente de esperanza para la juventud dentro de Guatemala. La reunión se llevó a cabo apenas después que Morales y los presidentes de El Salvador y Honduras se reunieron con Vicepresidente de los Estados Unidos Joe Biden sobre la implementación del Plan de la Alianza para la Prosperidad en el Triángulo Norte. -------------------------------------------------------- READOUT OF REP. TORRES AND CENTRAL AMERICA CAUCUS MEETING WITH PRESIDENT MORALES OF GUATEMALA WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and members of the newly-formed Central America Caucus recently met with Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales. Prior to the Caucus meeting, Morales and Torres, Chairwoman of the Caucus and a native of Guatemala, met separately. During their meeting President Morales and Rep. Torres discussed the challenges facing repatriated Guatemalans and initiatives to improve the conditions they face when they return, and Morales renewed his call for Temporary Protected Status for Guatemalans in the United States. Rep. Torres also commended the work of the CICIG and Attorney General Thelma Aldana which has led to a series of high-level corruption and human rights investigations and the removal of several public officials, including the previous President. Torres urged Morales to support these efforts and fulfill his commitment to greater government transparency and accountability. Once joined by Caucus members, Morales provided an update of his first 40 days in office. Members asked Morales how U.S. assistance can best help Guatemalan communities to which Morales stressed the need to address the root causes of the problems the country faces, such as chronic childhood malnutrition, lack of education and job training, and infrastructure challenges that have crippled the economy. He specifically commented on a recently restarted infrastructure project that had been fully funded but lay dormant because of government inefficiency. Other members addressed issues of gender-based violence, migration and the need to create an environment that provides hope for youth within Guatemala, and U.S. food assistance. Today’s meeting took place shortly after Morales and the Presidents of El Salvador and Honduras met with Vice President Biden to discuss the implementation of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle.
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Members of Congress launched the Central America Caucus, a newly-formed, bipartisan group of 32 Members of Congress chaired by Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) that is aimed at enhancing understanding about Central America and providing a forum for members and staff to discuss U.S. policy toward the region. The Caucus’s first order of business was a meeting with Guatemala’s newly-elected President, Jimmy Morales. “Despite the millions of Central Americans living in the US and the impact that changes in Central America have on our own economy and national security, for too long Congress and the administration have directed our attention to other parts of the world at the expense of the countries just beyond our borders,” said Torres. “The Central America Caucus will provide an avenue to educate Members on the issues facing Central America and to maintain a continuous, productive engagement between Congress and governments and civil society in the region.” "I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Central America Caucus to focus on the issues the region faces and to develop strategies and policies that can improve the human rights conditions for the millions in Central America,” said Rep. David Valadao (R-CA). “It is my hope that the Caucus will serve as a valuable resource in educating Congress on current conditions and how the United States can assist." “I am pleased to join Congresswoman Torres as a founding member of the Central America Caucus,” said Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. “The Obama Administration has provided bold, new leadership by investing in Central America and addressing the root causes of child migration from Central America to the United States. I commend Rep. Torres for her initiative in establishing this Caucus which demonstrates Congress’s commitment to supporting the people of Central America as they work to enhance prosperity and reduce violence and corruption.” The caucus announcement coincides with a meeting between the presidents of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden to discuss the progress of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle. The Obama administration’s FY2017 budget proposal, announced on February 9th, includes $1 billion to support the U.S. Strategy for Engagement in Central America. Congress approved $750 million for the Strategy for FY 2016; the administration’s request for that year was also $1 billion. “The Northern Triangle countries continue to face significant challenges including corruption, violence, and lack of opportunity,” continued Rep. Torres, who recently traveled with the Vice President to the inauguration of Guatemala’s new president, Jimmy Morales. “I and my fellow Caucus members are committed to working in Congress to ensure the U.S. continues to focus on the region and that Congress provides the necessary oversight to ensure our assistance goes where it is intended and produces real results.” The meeting with Caucus members and President Morales will take place at 5:15pm on Wednesday, February 24th. ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Hoy, Miembros de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos lanzaron el Caucus de Asuntos Centroamericanos. El nuevo grupo se forma con 32 miembros bipartidistas del Congreso y será dirigido por la Representante Norma J. Torres (D-CA). El objetivo del Caucus es despertar consciencia sobre Centroamérica y ofrecer un foro para que Miembros del Congreso puedan enfocarse en la póliza de los Estados Unidos hacia la región. La primera acción del Caucus fue una reunión con el presidente recién-electo de Guatemala, Jimmy Morales. "A pesar de los millones de centroamericanos que viven en los EE.UU. y el impacto que los cambios en Centroamérica tienen en nuestra propia economía y seguridad nacional, por demasiado tiempo el Congreso y el gobierno han dirigido su atención a otras partes del mundo a expensas de los países apenas más allá de nuestras fronteras ", dijo Torres. "El Caucus de Asuntos Centroamericanos proporcionará una vía para educar a los miembros sobre los problemas que enfrenta la región y mantendrá un diálogo continuo y productivo entre el Congreso y los gobiernos y la sociedad civil en la región". "Estoy entusiasmado por trabajar con mis colegas en el Caucus para ponerle atención a los problemas que enfrenta la región y para desarrollar estrategias y pólizas que pueden mejorar las condiciones de los derechos humanos para millones de personas en Centroamérica", dijo el representante David Valadao (R -CA). "Tengo la esperanza de que el Caucus servirá como un recurso valioso al educar Miembros del Congreso sobre las condiciones actuales y cómo Estados Unidos puede ayudar". "Me complace unirme a la congresista Torres como miembro fundador del Caucus de Asuntos Centroamericanos", dijo el representante Eliot Engel (D-NY), miembro de alto rango del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores. "El gobierno de Obama ha proporcionado un nuevo y valiente liderazgo mediante la inversión en Centroamérica para abordar las causas fundamentales de la migración infantil desde Centroamérica a los Estados Unidos. Felicito a la congresista Torres por su iniciativa en el establecimiento de este caucus, lo que demuestra el compromiso del Congreso a apoyar al pueblo de Centroamérica a medida que trabajan para mejorar la prosperidad y reducir la violencia y la corrupción". El anuncio del Caucus coincide con una reunión entre los presidentes de Guatemala, Honduras y El Salvador con el vicepresidente estadounidense Joe Biden, para discutir el progreso del Plan de la Alianza para la Prosperidad en el Triángulo del Norte. La propuesta de presupuesto del gobierno de Obama para el año fiscal 2017, lo que se anunció el 9 de febrero, incluye un mil millón de dólares para apoyar la Estrategia de EE.UU. para el Compromiso con Centroamérica. El Congreso aprobó $750 millones para la Estrategia para el año fiscal 2016. La solicitud del gobierno para ese año fue también un mil millón de dólares. "Los países del Triángulo Norte siguen enfrentando retos como corrupción, violencia y falta de oportunidades", continuó Rep. Torres, quien viajó recientemente con el vicepresidente Biden para asistir a la toma de posesión del nuevo presidente de Guatemala, Jimmy Morales. "Yo y mis compañeros del Caucus estamos comprometidos a trabajar dentro del Congreso para garantizar que EE.UU. continúa poniendo énfasis en esta región y que el Congreso proporcione la supervisión necesaria para asegurar que asistencia para la región vayan a donde se destina y que nuestra ayuda esté produciendo resultados reales". La reunión con los miembros del Caucus y el presidente Morales se llevará a cabo a las 5:15 de la tarde el miércoles 24 de febrero.
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request: “The budget proposed today represents a continued investment in our communities and in the hard-working families of the Inland Empire. While our region continues to wrestle with unemployment, homelessness, and a transportation system that is struggling to keep up, this year we also witnessed an act of terror hit dangerously close to home. I was pleased to see the President provide $2 billion to local and state governments to help them prepare for, respond to, and recover from acts of terror as well as funding to expand the capacity of local law enforcement agencies to work within their communities to counter homegrown extremism. Representing an area hit especially hard by the recession, it is also encouraging to see increased funding and new programs to expand educational and economic opportunities for young people and displaced workers through the expansion of technical training programs and the creation of the Community College Partnership Tax Credit. The President’s budget also calls for significant increases in assistance to help homeless families, to continue to address the opioid epidemic, and to build on the success of initiatives that have led to a 50 percent drop in the homeless veteran population nationwide. Additionally, by increasing investment in clean transportation infrastructure by 50 percent and doubling our investment in clean energy research and development, this budget will set us on a course to not only create good-paying jobs today but to thrive in an increasingly competitive global economy. The funding request presented to Congress today is a fiscally responsible proposal that puts American families first and gives our communities the tools and opportunities they need to prosper. I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues as the budget process moves forward to make sure we continue to invest in the economic growth and security that benefits all Americans.” Details of the President’s budget request can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/budget/fy2017/assets/budget.pdf ###
01.28.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced the names of the four students nominated to the U.S. Service Academies. The students were selected through a rigorous application and interview process, and their nominations will now go to the respective service academies for final approval. “The opportunity to choose nominees for the service academies is a responsibility I did not take lightly,” said Torres. “All of our candidates not only had strong academic records and extracurricular activities but also demonstrated an admirable commitment to their communities and to serving our country. It was difficult to narrow it down to the final four nominees, but ultimately, I was impressed by each of their stories, their drive, and their sense of duty. I am confident they will not only thrive at the academies but will go on to become the future leaders our nation deserves.” The following are this year’s nominees, their city of residence, high school, and the academy to which they have been nominated: Air Force Academy Jennifer Xochil Iniguez, Ontario Chaffey High School Naval Academy Hazel Janelle Martinez, Chino Don Lugo High School USMA (West Point) Kimberlyann Ester Ridley, Pomona Ganesha High School Merchant Marines Nicholas Weis, Fontana Los Osos High School Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies. In addition to a free college education, the honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. High school students and parents interested in learning more about the nomination process can visit https://torres.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations for additional information. ###
01.25.2016	ONTARIO, CA - Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined Secretary of Veterans Affairs Bob McDonald in meetings with public and private sector leaders working to address veterans homelessness in San Bernardino County. Secretary McDonald’s visit to San Bernardino County kicked off his four day trip to the Los Angeles metro area. “As communities across the nation work to meet the administration’s ambitious goal to end veterans homelessness, right here at home San Bernardino County is leading the way by implementing a comprehensive set of policies that have resulted in a significant decrease in the homeless veteran population,” said Torres. “It is an honor to welcome Secretary McDonald to our community to highlight the strides they have made and also to ensure he is personally aware of the challenges we continue to face." Torres took part in meetings with an inter-agency homeless veterans' advisory board and with housing provider groups and landlords. Topics discussed during these meetings included the veterans homeless count, the importance of bridge and immediate housing for veterans before permanent placements can be secured, and the need for increased resources for navigators who can provide one-on-one assistance to veterans. Concerns were also shared regarding the need to work more closely with landlords to increase acceptance of HUD VASH vouchers and pet-friendly housing options as well as the need for increased cross-county coordination in providing veterans' assistance. “The homeless veterans crisis is not unique to any one community, and it is going to take a long-term, comprehensive, cooperative approach to fully address it,” continued Torres. “In our area specifically, we have to recognize that veterans in our region rarely stay within one city or county as they look for work or housing. Therefore, it is vital for counties and local governments to work together to make access to assistance as seamless as possible.” After the meetings at the San Bernardino County Administrative Building, Secretary McDonald went on to Loma Linda University where he met with university leadership, with families of San Bernardino victims, and with VA Medical Center leadership and homeless program staff. ###
01.20.2016	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) took part in a field hearing at Riverside City College on reducing homelessness among veterans. The hearing, titled “Finding Solutions for Veteran Homelessness in Southern California,” was hosted by Rep. Mark Takano (D-Riverside) and brought together representatives from the private and public sectors to discuss how local programs are helping to decrease the number of homeless veterans. “No individual willing to give their life for this country should ever have to live on the streets,” said Torres, the mother of an Air Force veteran. “We owe it to our veterans to find ways to address this crisis and end the cycle of poverty and homelessness that far too many veterans face. I hope that in doing so, we also learn valuable lessons that will help us reach other homeless populations in our communities and end homelessness once and for all.” Testifying at the hearing were Emilio Ramirez, Development Director for the City of Riverside; Carrie Harmon, Principal Development Specialist for Riverside County; Stephen Peck, M.S.W., President and CEO of U.S.VETS; Son Nguyen, Co-founder and President of the Veterans Association of Real Estate Professionals; and Jose Rivera, a student at the University of California, Riverside. “Both Riverside and San Bernardino Counties have seen notable reductions in their numbers of homeless vets, with numbers in San Bernardino falling 56% in one year,” continued Torres. “Today’s hearing allowed us to learn first-hand what policies have worked and in what areas we can continue to improve. One thing that was clear is that even the best policies will be ineffective if we don’t know how to target our services to those who need them most. Riverside County in particular has made impressive strides in identifying and keeping track of at-risk veterans, and their efforts can serve as a model to other communities in the region and throughout the country as they work to meet the goal set by the White House and the Department of Veterans Affairs in 2009 to end veterans’ homelessness.” ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address: “President Obama spoke tonight to a nation facing difficult times in an increasingly turbulent world, but as he said, we have come a long way in the past seven years and have every reason to look ahead to an even brighter tomorrow. I share the President’s optimism in the capacity of the American people and in the American spirit, and I join in his call for a better politics. In my own community, the San Bernardino attacks have led to a rise in fear-mongering and reactionary policies, but as the President reminded us tonight, we have the world’s mightiest military. While we must continue to hone our military strategy to defeat ISIS and prevent future attacks, terrorists will not defeat us with weapons and fighters. The only way they win is if we give into fear and let our enemies destroy the values that have made this country great. Our nation has never shied away from the challenges it’s faced, and with every hurdle we’ve crossed we’ve emerged stronger on the other side. We find ourselves at a decisive point in our history, and the American people deserve better than the pointless divisiveness that has dominated the political sphere. This past year, we saw our 70th consecutive month of job growth, the US signed a historic climate agreement that finally brought some of the world's largest polluters to the table, and the Supreme Court upheld for a second time that all Americans should have access to healthcare. We cannot afford to now take a step back. Whether it’s keeping our country safe or our economy strong, it is only through cooperation and a shared commitment to move this country forward that we can truly achieve a safer, more prosperous future. I hope my colleagues will heed the President’s call to keep the momentum going and work to tackle the many challenges facing our nation.” ###
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced that she will be joined at this year’s State of the Union address by Annemarie Teall, the dispatcher who directed 911 traffic during the San Bernardino shooting. “Annemarie was the calm voice we all heard on the 911 recordings from that fateful day,” said Torres. “As panic spread throughout the region, she and her team coordinated a swift, effective emergency response to what is likely the greatest tragedy our community has ever suffered.” Teall has worked as a dispatcher for the past 27 years and is currently Police Dispatch Supervisor for the City of San Bernardino. Congresswoman Torres is presently on leave from her position as dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department where she worked for 18 years. “As a former dispatcher, I know the unbelievable pressure 911 dispatchers are under and how important their work is in responding to emergencies,” continued Torres. “Without them, our first responders would not be able to do their jobs, yet dispatchers very rarely get the recognition they deserve. By inviting Annemarie I hope to not only recognize her and the crucial role she played that day, but also the thousands of dispatchers throughout the country who form a vital part of our first responder teams, yet often go unnoticed.” Congresswoman Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 3878, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2015. “More than $1.3 trillion in cargo moves annually through our nation’s 360 commercial ports, and many of the goods that enter through the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach come to my district before being shipped to the rest of the country,” said Torres. “With this much economic activity and the increased use of cyber technology to manage port operations ranging from communication and navigation to engineering, safety, and cargo, it is critical to protect our maritime cyber infrastructure.” The Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cybersecurity risks at our nation’s ports. Specifically, it requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish voluntary guidelines for reporting of cybersecurity risks, to develop and implement a maritime cyber security risk model, and to make recommendations on enhancing the sharing of cyber information. It also requires the Commandant of the Coast Guard to direct Area Maritime Security Committees to ensure area maritime security and facility security plans address cybersecurity risks. “During a recent homeland security hearing, we learned of significant cybersecurity vulnerabilities at our nation’s ports,” continued Torres. “There appears to currently be little coordination between port landlords and tenants in addressing cyber threats, and federal agencies have only recently started to consider the impact that a cyber-attack could pose to our maritime infrastructure. This legislation will ensure the necessary planning and coordination is in place to protect the ports that form the backbone of our nation’s economy.” H.R. 3878, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2015, was introduced by Rep. Torres on November 2, 2015 and voted favorably out of the Homeland Security Committee on November 4, 2015.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 420 to 2 H.R. 3842, a bill introduced by Reps. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Buddy Carter (R-GA) making improvements to and permanently establishing the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC). FLETC provides quality, cost-effective training to more than 70,000 law enforcement officers across a variety of agencies each year at seven locations around the country. “The urgency to pass this bill has only grown in the last week,” said Torres. “Last Wednesday’s shooting just outside of my district in San Bernardino affirmed that local law enforcement is the first line of defense in the fight against terror, and it showed us just how important coordination between all levels of law enforcement is when responding to a crisis. If our nation is to address the threat of future attacks, we must ensure that law enforcement personnel throughout the nation not only have the tools they need but also the training to effectively address the diverse terrorism landscape.” FLETC was first established in 1975, and training is carried out by a group of experienced instructors who use modern facilities and standardized course content at locations in Georgia, Maryland, New Mexico, and South Carolina. FLETC also has a unique partnership with the Maritime Law Enforcement Training Center at the Port of Los Angeles where they help ensure local law enforcement get the training they need to protect America’s critical ports and waterways. This is particularly significant at a port that accounts for more than 40 percent of the goods that enter the United States. “With many of the goods that arrive at the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles coming through my district before being distributed throughout the rest of the country, securing our area ports is one of my top priorities,” continued Torres. “Earlier this year I had the opportunity to tour the Port of Long Beach’s Joint Command and Control Center and learn about some of the unique security challenges facing our nation’s ports. It became clear to me then that maritime security is a critical piece of our national homeland security mission. I commend my colleagues in Congress for bringing this important legislation to the floor and hope the Senate will take it up swiftly.” H.R. 3842 was passed unanimously out of the Committee on Homeland Security on November 19th. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement in response to the shooting at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California: “As this situation continues to unfold, my heart goes out to the victims and their families. These kinds of tragedies are always heartbreaking, but today, it has hit frighteningly close to home. Not only is this facility located within my previous state Senate district, but constituents of the 35th congressional district receive services here as do countless others throughout the region. I commend our law enforcement and emergency personnel for their swift, coordinated response to this incident and their efforts to secure the area. I’m sure we will soon learn more about the perpetrator or perpetrators and their motives, but at this point in time I only pray for those affected and assure them that the Inland Empire community has them in our thoughts.” ###
11.25.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Today Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, met with families of Syrian refugees at the Islamic Center of Claremont in Pomona to hear first-hand their experiences with the refugee screening process and their resettlement in California. “As an immigrant myself, I know that we can’t turn our backs on those in greatest need,” said Torres. “I came to the U.S. as a small girl during a very dangerous time in Guatemala, because my parents hoped I would have a better life. During this time of Thanksgiving, we must recognize that this is what American has always been and what I am fighting for it to always be.” Joining Rep. Torres were representatives from the Islamic Center of Claremont, the Claremont Interfaith Working Group for Middle East Peace, the Claremont Interfaith Council, and the Claremont Interfaith Sustainability Committee. The organizations have been working to promote tolerance and inter-faith cooperation within the community and have been providing assistance to the refugee families. “The Islamic Center of Claremont appreciates Congresswoman Torres’s support for the long held American tradition of being a refuge for the destitute fleeing oppression and seeking a new birth of freedom on our golden shores,” stated Joseph Salas with the Islamic Center of Claremont. “Refugees fleeing war-torn Syria affirm the plight of the first pilgrims who sought religious freedom when they fled their home country of England. Congresswoman Torres's vote on the House floor upholds the spirit of Thanksgiving and the upcoming Christmas season which furthers the eternal principles of peace and goodwill.” “I was proud to meet with these two families today who have faced unimaginable challenges to be where they are and to hear straight from them what it took to make it to this country as refugees. What I heard only reinforced what we know of the vetting process: it is long, robust, and continually strengthened as circumstances change,” continued Torres. “In light of the Paris attacks and the risks we continue to face, I am committed to working on the Homeland Security Committee to strengthen the current process and continuously reevaluate it to ensure Americans are protected and our values are preserved.” ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday evening, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a Telephone Town Hall for constituents with representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) on preparing for El Niño. It was the latest in a series of outreach efforts to help Inland Empire residents get ready, including an El Niño Preparedness Seminar in Chino and a comprehensive online resources page. “Ultimately, we can never be a hundred percent sure what the weather is going to bring, but we can do everything we can to make sure we’re prepared,” said Torres. “The news lately has been full of stories about a Godzilla El Niño and worst case scenarios. I hope that events like last night’s call will help residents stay well-informed and aware of what steps they need to take to protect their home and family.” Joining Torres on the call was Roger Pierce, Meteorologist-in-Charge of NOAA’s National Weather Service Office in San Diego, the primary forecast office for the region, who discussed the science behind this weather phenomenon as well as when and how Southern California will be impacted. He was joined by Benigno “Bern” Ruiz, FEMA’s Federal Coordinating Officer and chair of FEMA’s El Niño Task Force, who talked about emergency preparedness and the flood insurance program. Listeners had the opportunity to ask questions of the guest experts and Congresswoman Torres throughout the call. They also took part in two brief polls on flood insurance and preparedness which revealed that 40 percent of participants still weren’t sure if they had flood insurance or if they would be purchasing it, and 50 percent had not yet started to prepare their homes for El Niño. “When I lost my home in a fire, I never thought it would happen to me, so emergency preparedness is an issue that’s especially important to me,” continued Torres. “I know how busy families can get, so the Telephone Town Hall is one more way residents can get the information they need.” A total of 4,209 residents of the 35th congressional district joined the call, which was the latest in Torres’s efforts to make sure area residents are prepared for the potential impacts of El Niño. She also previously hosted an El Niño Preparedness Seminar at the Chino Police Department with representatives from local and federal agencies, and constituents can visit torres.house.gov/elnino for a constantly updated list of resources. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) has issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris, France: "The attacks of this past week were more than a tragedy for the victims and their loved ones, they were an attack on our values, our freedoms, and our shared humanity. The attacks in Paris have unquestionably hit close to home, but they also came on the heels of deadly ISIL attacks in Egypt, Beirut, and Baghdad. They are all a stark reminder of the threat we continue to face. "At this time one thing is clear; this is an unconventional war with an unconventional enemy that requires a multi-faceted, coordinated strategy on the part of not only the United States but hand in hand with our international partners. As Congress returns to Washington this week, I look forward joining my colleagues on the Homeland Security Committee to make sure our federal agencies have the tools necessary to prevent an attack on U.S. soil, and I encourage all Americans to do our part to remain vigilant and report suspicious activity. "Ultimately however, while the military and intelligence community continues their challenging task of rooting out terrorist activity, we all have a responsibility to not let these attacks shake the very American values ISIL seeks to destroy. It is more important than ever to show the world that the U.S. will continue to stand as a beacon for liberty, tolerance, and hope." ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in letters to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Attorney General for the State of California, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) asked the IRS to re-examine the current tax exempt status of the Los Angeles County Fair Association and work with the California Attorney General to restructure the Association to better serve the public. “For far too long, the Association has ignored the concerns of local residents and operated without sufficient oversight or accountability,” stated Torres. “It is particularly troubling that despite having largely abandoned their mission to promote agriculture, the Association continues to benefit from tax-exempt status intended for agricultural organizations. I am calling on the IRS and the AG to investigate so that we can make sure taxpayers are protected and the Association is accountable to the community that is most impacted by its activities.” Under current law, the Association is classified under IRC 501(c)(5) which exempts agricultural organizations from federal income tax. However, the Fair has strayed from its original mission to promote the region’s agricultural industry, and recent reports have called into question its management structure and financial operations in the wake of consecutive years of financial losses and the deaths of two young women at a music festival earlier this year. Unlike other similar organizations, the Association has no direct oversight from the County or other government agency. The full text of the letters can be found here and here. ###
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced two pieces of legislation aimed at improving coordination in homeland security efforts, particularly as they relate to area ports. “With many of the goods that arrive at the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles coming through my district before being distributed throughout the rest of the country, securing our area ports is one of my top priorities,” stated Torres. “Earlier this year I had the opportunity to tour the Port of Long Beach’s Joint Command and Control Center (JCCC) and learn about some of the unique security challenges facing our nation’s ports. It became clear to me then that maritime security is a critical piece of our national homeland security mission.” The first piece of legislation, a bill to reauthorize the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), would permanently establish FLETC and make it required by law. FLETC trains more than 70,000 law enforcement officers across a variety of agencies each year at seven locations around the country but has not been reauthorized since 1970. One of those locations is at the Port of LA where FLETC has a unique partnership with the Maritime Law Enforcement Training Center (MLETC) to develop specialized training standards and strategies for the protection of America’s ports and waterways. The second bill, the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Coordination in Our Ports Act of 2015, would improve information sharing and cooperation in addressing cyber security risks at our nation’s ports. “During a recent hearing, the Port of Long Beach brought up significant cyber security vulnerabilities at U.S. ports,” continued Torres. “This is due in part to port landlords not always coordinating with port tenants and also to federal agencies only beginning to consider the impact of a cyber-attack on our maritime infrastructure in its security assessments and strategies. The two bills I have introduced will help keep LA area ports safe and ensure that we continue to be a leader in developing innovative maritime security strategies and techniques that can be used by law enforcement across the country.” Both bills are scheduled to be voted on in the Homeland Security Committee next week. The full text of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act can be found here, and the full text of the Strengthening Cybersecurity Information Sharing and Confirmation in Our Ports Act can be found here. ###
10.26.2015	TORRES: DECLARACIÓN SOBRE LA ELECCION PRESIDENCIAL EN GUATEMALA (English version follows) WASHINGTON, DC – Hoy, la Representante Norma J. Torres, la primera congresista estadounidense de origen guatemalteco, emitió la siguiente declaración con respeto a las elecciones presidenciales en Guatemala: “Felicito a Jimmy Morales por su victoria. El pueblo guatemalteco ha hecho oír su voz, pero estas elecciones siempre han sido más que una decisión entre candidatos. Forman parte de un despertar cívico dentro del pueblo en el cual el ciudadano común tomó las calles, demandó más de su gobierno y le mandó el mensaje a cada funcionario electo que los guatemaltecos no se van a conformar con repetir el pasado. “Ahora tenemos la oportunidad de comenzar un capitulo nuevo en la historia política de Guatemala. Le urjo al presidente-electo que apoye el trabajo en curso de la CICIG y de la fiscal general, que avance las reformas necesarias y que promueva la transparencia y responsabilidad dentro de su propio gobierno. Y les pido a todos los guatemaltecos, si ganó su candidato o no, que sigan participando en el proceso político y demanden el mayor grado de responsabilidad de sus políticos. “El futuro económico y social de Guatemala depende de la confianza en el sistema político y judicial y también de la participación continua de los ciudadanos a todos niveles. Ya es hora de poner manos a la obra y ayudar a Guatemala alcanzar su gran potencial.” --------------------- TORRES STATEMENT ON GUATEMALAN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres, the first Guatemalan-born Member of Congress, issued the following statement regarding the Guatemalan presidential election: “I congratulate Jimmy Morales on his victory. The Guatemalan people have made their voices heard, but these elections have always been about more than a decision between candidates. They form part of a civic awakening within the Guatemalan people in which average citizens took to the streets, demanded more of their government, and sent the message to every elected official that the Guatemalan people will not put up with repeating the past. “Now we have an opportunity to begin a new chapter in Guatemala’s political history. I urge the President-elect to support the ongoing work of the CICIG and the Attorney General, advance necessary reforms, and promote transparency and accountability within his own government. And I ask that all Guatemalans, whether or not their candidate won, to continue participating in the political process and demand the highest level of accountability from their government. “The social and economic future of Guatemala depends on trust in the political and judicial system and also on the continued participation of the citizenry at all levels. Now it’s time to get to work and help Guatemala reach its true potential. ###
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to a final agreement being reached on the Trans-Pacific Partnership: “While I recognize the historic nature of this deal, my first responsibility is to the hard working men and women who call the Inland Empire home. In the coming months, I look forward to reading through the agreement and meeting with constituents and local and national stakeholders to determine the impact TPP will have on our economic landscape. I will specifically be focusing on how this deal addresses human and labor rights, currency manipulation, and the creation of good paying American jobs. At the end of the day, my decision will come down to whether or not this agreement creates more opportunities for Inland Empire families.” ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to Pope Francis’s address to a Joint Meeting of Congress: “Pope Francis’s address before Congress as well as the events of the last few days have rejuvenated my faith and brought me closer to a Church from which I, like many others, had become estranged. I am proud, as are so many Catholics in the United States and throughout the Hemisphere, to see myself in this Pope. “The Pope’s message today was not progressive or conservative, Democratic or Republican. It was simply an appeal to our common humanity. Regardless of faith or political affiliation, we can all heed the Pope’s advice to be better stewards of our planet, to care for the less fortunate among us, and to preserve the dignity of our fellow man. His message to remember our past, acknowledge our failures, and recommit ourselves to the values that have made this country great can be applied to both the work of this legislative body and to our own personal lives. “Pope Francis’s tenure has been marked by a spirit of reconciliation, cooperation, and respect for others, even in the face of fundamental disagreement. It is with this spirit that I hope we can move forward and as the Pope said, enable this country, by our work in Congress, to grow its common good.” ###
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the Pope’s visit to Congress and what she hopes to hear during his address: “Pope Francis has breathed new life into the Church, but his impact has gone far beyond Catholicism. By engaging in issues like climate change, immigrants’ rights, and economic justice, he has solidified his role as not only a religious figure but also a humanitarian and moral leader for individuals of all faiths. I look forward to the Pope addressing these very important issues, but more than that I'm looking forward to being inspired by his enthusiasm and vision for a more just and peaceful world. “The Catholic Church has faced its challenges over the last few years and with it my own faith has been tested. The Pope's commitment to justice, to forgiveness, and to respect for all have brought me back to my Church. I hope the Pope's message to Congress reflects those values and inspires us all to be better global citizens.” ###
09.07.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released the following statement recognizing the importance of Labor Day: "Over the last several years, American workers have taken quite the hit. While our economy is recovering, wages haven't bounced back in the same way and many find themselves working longer hours with fewer benefits. As we join with our friends and families around barbecues and take in the last days of summer, let's remember the victories of the labor movement, from the five day work week and workplace safety to the end of child labor, and recognize the battles we're still fighting, including equal pay, sick and parental leave, and a fair minimum wage. American workers have built this country into what it is today. Let's honor their hard work with the dignity and fairness they deserve." ###
09.03.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the resignation of Guatemalan President Otto Pérez Molina: “Today’s announcement represents an important step forward for Guatemala’s future. I commend the Commission Against Impunity for the vital role it has played in bringing accountability to the Guatemalan government and proving that no one is above the law However, it is the people who took to the streets and demanded more from their government who have been the true catalyst for change. “They proved they will no longer accept corruption as a fact of life. They sent a message to current and future elected officials that the people are watching, and the country’s leaders can no longer expect to get away with taking advantage of the public’s trust. “With yesterday’s ruling and today’s resignation, the country turns the page. Whatever the outcome of the upcoming elections, the Guatemalan people have risen up and through their continued engagement will keep holding their leaders to a higher standard. “Guatemala continues to face significant challenges, from a struggling economy to ongoing violence, but through a trustworthy, responsive, and accountable government, the country will truly be capable of tackling these issues to bring about lasting change.” Torres, the first Guatemalan-born Member of Congress, represents California’s 35th congressional district. ###
09.03.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Hoy, la Representante Norma J. Torres, la primera congresista estadounidense nacida en Guatemala, emitió la siguiente declaración con respeto al anuncio de la renuncia del Presidente de Guatemala, Otto Pérez Molina: “El anuncio de hoy representa un importante paso adelante para el futuro de Guatemala. Aplaudo el trabajo de la Comisión Internacional contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (CICIG) por el importante papel que ha jugado en traer responsabilidad y transparencia al gobierno guatemalteco y en demostrar que nadie está por encima de la ley. Pero ha sido el pueblo guatemalteco, que salió a las calles y demandó más de su gobierno, que realmente ha sido el catalizador del cambio. “Los ciudadanos guatemaltecos probaron que ya no van a aceptar la corrupción como un hecho de la vida. Le enviaron un mensaje a cada funcionario electo, actual y futuro, que el pueblo los está observando y los líderes políticos ya no pueden contar con aprovecharse de la confianza del público. “Con la decisión de ayer y la renuncia de hoy, el país ha pasado la página. Independientemente del resultado de las inminentes elecciones, el pueblo guatemalteco se ha levantado y con su continua participación cívica, elevará los estándares con que mide a sus líderes. “Entre la violencia y la falta de oportunidad económica, Guatemala continua lidiando con importantes retos, pero con un gobierno confiable, responsable y transparente, el país es verdaderamente capaz de abordar sus problemas y lograr un cambio duradero.” Torres representa el distrito 35 del estado de California.
08.25.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, brought together representatives from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with community leaders and local law enforcement officials for a Public Safety Round Table on “Emerging Threats to the Homeland” and their impact on the Inland Empire. “As technology brings the world closer, it also means that the threat of terrorism is no longer limited by geography and radicalization is happening in the most unexpected places,” said Torres. “I hosted this round table, because, as the eyes and ears of our communities, it has never been more important for local law enforcement and community and religious leaders to work in coordination with DHS to know what to look out for and how to prevent ever-changing terrorist threats.” Participating on the panel were: Anthony Frangipane, Director of the Southwest Region of the Department of Homeland Security; David Bowdich, Assistant Director in charge of the Los Angeles Joint Terrorism Task Force (FBI); and David Kennard, Branch Chief of FEMA Region IX Grants Program Directorate. Speakers discussed the structure and function of their organizations, homeland security threats of radicalization, mobilization from radicalization to terrorist action, and federal resources available to combat emerging homeland security threats. “It is disconcerting to know that DHS Southwest Region alone has already arrested and indicted 63 ISIS supporters,” Torres continued. “The discussion was productive and I hope informative for everyone involved. I was particularly encouraged by the conversation surrounding the vital balance between public safety and civil liberties and by Mr. Bowdich’s remarks that FBI outreach to communities is key, not simply to gather intelligence but primarily to build relationships. I look forward to this becoming part of an ongoing dialogue and partnership between our local leaders and DHS to keep our communities and our nation safe.” The Round Table took place on August 20th at Ontario Police Department Headquarters. In addition to the representatives from DHS, approximately 50 local law enforcement officials and community leaders took part in the event. ###
08.14.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) was joined at the Montclair City Council Chamber by representatives from the Small Business Administration (SBA) for a workshop for Inland Empire small business owners and entrepreneurs on the federal resources available to help their businesses grow and succeed. “Small businesses help fuel our local economy and are at the core of a vibrant community,” stated Torres. “Starting your own business has always been a challenge, but as banks’ lending practices have become increasingly restrictive in the wake of the recession, getting a business off the ground or even expanding one that has proven successful has become daunting at best. Thankfully, there are resources available to help business owners obtain the assistance they need.” Silvia Gutierrez, SBA Economic Development Specialist and Women's Outreach Representative, and Paul Smith, SBA Economic Development Specialist and District International Trade Officer, were on hand to answer questions and provide guidance in navigating SBA resources. “During my Job Creation Listening Tour this year, several business owners commented that they had no idea there were so many resources out there to help small businesses,” continued Torres. “Therefore, one of my recommendations from the tour was to increase awareness of the kinds of assistance available to small business owners. I look forward to hosting future workshops for area businesses both with the SBA and other resources.” Business owners who were unable to attend this week’s workshop can visit https://torres.house.gov/services/resources/businesses-and-consumers for small business assistance and additional information.
08.06.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres applauded the decision by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) to restore local control of LA/Ontario International Airport. An official announcement will be made at a press conference scheduled for 1:00pm at Ontario airport. “This decision is long overdue,” said Torres. “Despite our strategic location in a growing region at the center of an important freight corridor that attracts and supports economic activity throughout the region, Ontario Airport has not received the attention it deserves. This has not only impacted passenger numbers but also our region’s potential for economic growth.” LAWA assumed control of Ontario Airport 30 years ago. After severe declines in the number of annual passengers, the City of Ontario sued, alleging mismanagement. Rep. Torres has long advocated for local control, and most recently questioned TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger at a Homeland Security Committee hearing last month on the questionable state of perimeter security and security equipment at Ontario resulting from the existing division of oversight responsibilities. “LAX and Ontario each play unique and important roles in our region’s transportation infrastructure, and today’s announcement will ensure that each airport is better able to reach its full potential,” continued Torres. “Local control will ensure that decisions are made by those who understand the needs of our community and are most impacted. I look forward to working with the airport’s new leadership to improve the airport’s capacity and to continue making the Inland Empire more attractive to businesses and local residents alike.” Rep. Torres serves on the House Homeland Security Committee and represents California’s 35th congressional district which includes LA/Ontario International Airport. ###
08.05.2015	TORRES JOINS NATIONAL NIGHT OUT EVENTS THROUGHOUT 35TH DISTRICT ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined National Night Out festivities throughout the 35th district, taking part in the celebrations in Ontario on July 30th and in Fontana, Montclair, Pomona, and Rialto on August 4th. “At a time when community-police relations throughout the country are understandably strained, events like National Night Out help build trust between the police and the communities they serve,” said Torres. “As a former member of my own neighborhood watch, I hope residents left these events with a renewed sense of community and recognize that we all have a part to play in keeping our neighborhoods safe.” National Night Out is an annual, nation-wide event that promotes neighborhood camaraderie and community-police partnerships. Neighborhoods across the country join their local law enforcement agencies to host block parties, festivals, cookouts, and other community events along with demonstrations by emergency personnel, seminars, and exhibits. In addition to getting to know their local law enforcement officers and taking part in their own neighborhood watch groups, constituents are encouraged to consider the following helpful tips to help prevent crime and promote safer neighborhoods: Lighting is one of the most important crime deterrents. Consider installing lights on a timer to give would-be thieves the impression that people are home. Follow your instincts. If you think someone is following you, switch directions or cross the street. If the person continues to follow you, move quickly toward an open store, restaurant, lit house, or more populated area. Make sure your family, especially children, know when and how to dial 9-1-1. Help your child memorize their own address and phone number. Look up your local police and emergency services departments and keep important phone numbers in an easily accessible location. Only use 9-1-1 is cases of emergency. Direct non-emergency calls to 3-1-1 or the appropriate non-emergency number in your community to help keep 9-1-1 lines open for true emergencies and life-threatening situations. ###
08.04.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) presented a letter to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors calling on the Board to take action in the wake of the deaths of two teenage girls at the HARD Music Festival held at the Pomona Fairplex this weekend. “As a Pomona resident, the tragic events of this weekend hit terribly close to home,” stated Torres. “I saw first-hand the impact this festival had on my community, from excessive noise and bumper-to-bumper traffic to indecent exposure, fights, and abuse of private property, but I am especially disturbed by the untimely, seeming avoidable deaths of two young women practically in my own backyard.” Torres had previously called on the City of Pomona to grant a public hearing for an appeal filed by Pomona residents on the Conditional Use Permit by the L.A. County Fair Association based on the community’s experiences with the first HARD Music Festival held in 2014. The letter presented at today’s meeting asks the Board of Supervisors to support a public hearing and initiate an Environmental Impact Review and traffic study to assess the impacts of the Fairplex’s activities on local communities. It also expresses support for Supervisor Hilda Solis’s motion to ban electronic music festivals on county land until an investigation into the teens’ deaths concludes. “This weekend’s events were not isolated incidents,” continued Torres. “They are the latest in a pattern of neglect and lack of accountability on the part of event organizers. The Board should take action to ensure they never happen again.” The full text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) expressed disappointment in the decision by House Republican leadership to adjourn for the August recess a day early while failing to address both a long-term transportation funding bill and the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. “I am incredibly frustrated that House leadership has decided to head home for the August recess while leaving long-term transportation funding and the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank unfinished,” said Torres. “We were elected to Congress to pass needed legislation to further the interests of our constituents, not to operate in a constant state of gridlock, jumping from one avoidable, manufactured crisis to another.” Current authorization for the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for roads, bridges, and public transit systems throughout the country, is set to expire on July 31st. Rather than taking up a long-term bill to provide certainty to state and local transit agencies, Congress has passed 25 short-term extensions, including the latest three month extension passed by the House of Representatives today. The charter for the Export-Import Bank expired on June 30th, and the bank has been unable to make new loans to help U.S. businesses export since that date. The bank has supported 1.3 million private-sector jobs since 2009 at zero cost to taxpayers. A list of California companies that receive Export-Import Bank assistance can be found here: https://customermap.exim.gov/state_map.cfm?state=CA. “These are measures that enjoy broad, bipartisan support and provide much needed jobs in our communities. While I am looking forward to a busy, productive few weeks of work in the district, I would be willing to stay in DC to finish the people’s business if the Speaker would bring the House back into session,” continued Torres. “It’s a shame that instead of working together to tackle these issues, my colleagues would rather throw in the towel. This is not why I came to Congress.” ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) spoke at a hearing hosted by Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Maryland) titled “Make It in America: What’s Next?” where she outlined some of the policies Congress should pursue to create jobs and build a robust, resilient U.S. economy. “While my district is on the rebound from the Great Recession, many of the jobs that have come back are lower wage, lower skill, and part-time. They’re not the kinds of jobs you can raise a family on,” said Torres. “Congress needs to step up and take action to spur the creation of quality, good paying jobs right here at home.” During her testimony, Torres discussed two pieces of legislation, the Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act and the Job Opportunities between Our Shores Act. Both of these bills were the products of suggestions she received during a Job Creation Listening Tour of her district. “At every meeting we held, two issues always came up: better infrastructure and improved workforce development,” continued Torres. “Making sure American workers are trained in the skills employers demand and finding innovative ways to fund our nation’s growing infrastructure needs should form key components of any economic strategy. The global economy is only getting more competitive. We can’t afford to take a backseat and hope things work out for the best.” Today’s hearing is the first in a series that will help craft the economic agenda for House Democrats and shape the priorities for their Make It in America jobs plan. Make It in America was first launched in 2010, and so far 16 Make It in America bills have been signed into law. Video of the Torres's testimony can be found here:https://youtu.be/dt3KB6n4mR8
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded the inaugural Tribal Youth Gathering, held at the White House in collaboration with United National Indian Tribal Youth and the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services. “The young people who have come to DC for this historic event are the future of their tribes. They are the ones entrusted with protecting their important heritage and creating the opportunities for their nations to thrive for generations to come,” said Torres. “I applaud the White House for recognizing, through this conference and through the launch of the Generation Indigenous initiative, the need to support Native youth and help foster the next generation of tribal leaders.” The conference brings together over 875 Native youth representing 230 tribes from 42 states to engage with the First Lady, Cabinet officials, the White House Council on Native American Affairs, and non-federal partners on important issues affective Native youth including cultural protection and preservation, health and education, economic opportunity, natural resources, and tribal justice. “Earlier today, I introduced an amendment in the Natural Resources Committee protecting sacred tribal sites from development. That such an amendment is still necessary only highlights the important work these young people have undertaken to preserve and protect their diverse cultures for future generations,” Torres continued. “The struggle for tribal sovereignty is far from over, and it’s going to take the advocacy of these young leaders to ensure the federal government is held to the promises made to the 567 federally recognized tribes and Alaska Native Corporations.” Torres is a member of the House Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs. The amendment offered today to H.R. 1937, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2015, exempts sacred and cultural sites from development and ensures that the affected tribes are not prevented from accessing such sites. It was defeated 22 to 16. ###
07.07.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Residents of Fontana and Rialto in need of assistance with federal agencies will no longer have to travel to Rep. Torres’s Ontario office for help. Starting this month, caseworkers from the Congresswoman’s office will be hosting office hours the second Monday of every month at Fontana City Hall and the second Wednesday of every month at the Rialto Senior Center. See below for details: Who: Caseworkers from the office of Rep. Norma Torres What: Office hours where constituents can get help on matters before federal agencies such as assistance receiving social security and disability benefits, enrollment in the VA medical system, and immigration issues. Where: Fontana City Hall Heritage Room 8353 Sierra Avenue Fontana CA, 92335 Rialto Senior Center Citrus Room A 1411 S Riverside Ave Rialto, CA 92376 When: Fontana - Second Monday of every month, beginning July 13th, 10am - 1pm Rialto – Second Wednesday of every month, beginning July 8th , 10am - 1pm In addition to these expanded hours, constituents of the 35th District can continue to receive assistance in Torres’s Ontario district office, located at 3200 Inland Empire Blvd., Suite 200 B, Monday through Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm. They can also attend regularly occurring “Congress on Your Corner” events held monthly throughout the district. Details can be found at torres.house.gov/events. ###
07.02.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) capped off her first six months in office with a Congress on Your Corner event at the Rialto Senior Center. In total, she has hosted four Congress on Your Corners throughout the community where she has met with over 200 constituents to discuss issues before Congress and provide assistance on problems individuals may be having with federal government agencies. “Going into the community to hear straight from my constituents is one of the important parts of my job,” said Torres. “I recognize that not everyone can make it to my Ontario office during the day and that there are issues they want to talk about face-to-face, so I want to do everything I can to make sure the residents of the 35th District feel like their voices are being heard.” Each of the monthly gatherings consist of one-on-one meetings with the Congresswoman, where attendees can discuss any issue of concern to them, as well as meetings with caseworkers for individuals in need of assistance with federal agencies such as help receiving Social Security benefits, enrolling in the VA medical system, or navigating federal student loan programs. “I’m determined to make sure my work in Congress reflects the needs of my community,” continued Torres. “In the months ahead, we will not only continue to hold regular Congress on Your Corners but will also be expanding our mobile and Saturday office hours to better accommodate my constituents.” At her latest event, held at the Rialto Senior Center on July 1st, Torres met with a diverse group of constituents to discuss issues ranging from the need for affordable housing to expanding workforce development programs. To learn more about upcoming Congress on Your Corners and similar events, individuals should visit the “Events” page on the Congresswoman’s website torres.house.gov/about/events and follow her on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/RepNormaTorres for regular updates. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision in King v. Burwell upholding the federal government’s ability to provide health insurance subsidies to individuals enrolled in the federal exchange: The Affordable Care Act has given millions of American families access to affordable health insurance, freed them from the fear of going bankrupt because of a single accident, and finally barred insurance companies from denying coverage because of pre-existing conditions. Today’s decision isn’t a victory for the ACA; it’s a victory for the millions of people who live in states whose leaders chose to put politics over their residents’ wellbeing. It’s time we stop fighting over the ACA and focus our efforts on expanding access to affordable health care. Moving forward, I hope more states will follow my home state of California’s lead and set up their own exchanges to make sure their health insurance markets are meeting the unique needs of their states. This law may not be perfect, but I remain committed to improving it, just as I did during my time in the State Legislature. This isn’t about politics or proving a point. It’s about doing what’s right for the people we represent. ###
06.08.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) praised the U.S. Department of Education’s announcement of a new streamlined process for former students of Corinthian Colleges to obtain student loan debt relief. “Until now, students who were defrauded by Corinthian or whose studies were interrupted when their schools abruptly closed faced a complicated and oftentimes contradictory process when seeking loan relief,” said Torres. “I’m pleased the Department has heard the calls from Congress as well as the thousands of affected students and is finally taking action to protect the countless individuals who were impacted by Corinthian’s collapse.” On May 21st, Torres sent a letter signed by 15 other Members of Congress to the Department of Education asking for a clear, efficient process for former students of Corinthian Colleges, Inc. to apply to have federal loans forgiven. Under current law, students can have their federal loans discharged if their school abruptly closes or is found to be in violation of state law. However, there had been multiple reports of delays and misinformation for students seeking relief. “Corinthian’s deceptive practices jeopardized the financial and academic futures of thousands of students who are now saddled with debt with little to show for it,” continued Torres. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Department to ensure these new measures are implemented effectively and students are able to obtain the relief they deserve.” Corinthian Colleges, Inc. abruptly closed many of its campuses after filing for bankruptcy and has been fined $29.6 million by the Department of Education for defrauding students by falsifying job placement reports. The Department’s announcement today included enhanced assistance for students whose campuses closed, a streamlined process, including a simple application, for students who believe they were defrauded regardless of whether their campuses closed, the appointment of a Special Master dedicated to borrower defense issues, and the development of a better system for debt relief in the future. Students impacted by the closure can visit studentaid.gov/Corinthian or call a special toll-free borrower defense hotline at (855) 279-6207 to learn more about the Department’s actions and ask about their options. They may also contact Rep. Torres’s Ontario office at (909) 481-6474 for assistance. ###
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Speaker John A. Boehner (R-OH) has appointed Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) to the Mexico-U.S. Interparliamentary Group, the official dialogue mechanism between the United States Congress and the Mexican government. “As a Member of the Homeland Security Committee, I look forward to further ensuring trust and mutual cooperation on issues related to our shared border, migration, and transnational crime,” said Torres. “But this goes much further than national security. Not only is Mexico our nation’s third largest trading partner, they are California's main trading partner and the largest market for California-made goods. The economic growth and prosperity of not just the U.S., but especially of California, are inextricably linked to Mexico." The Mexico-U.S. Interparliamentary Group has been meeting since 1961. The group serves to bolster the bilateral relationship between the two countries and increase opportunities for both their citizens. “Representing a district with thousands of Mexican-Americans, from recent arrivals to families who have been in this country for generations, I see every day the unique ties between our two countries and the importance of maintaining open lines of communication on areas of shared interest and concern,” said Torres. “I look forward to working with the group to continue to build a strong, mutually beneficially partnership between our two nations.” In addition to Rep. Torres, the following Members of Congress were also appointed to the Mexico-U.S. Interparliamentary Group: Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colorado), and Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX). ###
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – El presidente de la Cámara de Representantes John A. Boehner (R-OH) ha nombrado a la congresista Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) al Grupo Interparlamentario de México y los Estados Unidos. El grupo es el mecanismo oficial de dialogo entre el Congreso estadunidense y el gobierno mexicano. “Como miembro del Comité de Seguridad Nacional, espero continuar de asegurar la confianza y cooperación mutual en temas relacionados a nuestra frontera, la migración y el crimen trasnacional,” dijo Torres. “Pero esto llega más allá de la seguridad nacional. México no es solo el tercer socio comercial de los Estados Unidos, pero el primer socio comercial del estado de California y el mercado más grande de productos hechos en mi estado. La prosperidad económica Americana y especialmente la de California están inextricablemente vinculadas con México.” El Grupo Interparlamentario empezó en 1961. El grupo sirve para mejorar la relación bilateral entre los dos gobiernos y aumentar oportunidades para los ciudadanos de ambos países. “Representando un distrito con miles de mexicanos-americanos, de recién llegados a familias que han estado en este país por generaciones, yo veo todo los días los lazos únicos entre nuestros dos países y la importancia de mantener las líneas de comunicación abiertas en áreas de mutuo interés y preocupación,” continuo Torres. “Espero trabajar con el grupo para continuar a crear una asociación fuerte y mutuamente beneficiosa entre nuestros dos países.” Además de la congresista Torres, los siguientes congresistas también fueron nombrados al grupo: Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Gene Green (D-TX), Jared Polis (D-CO) y Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX).
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced H.R. 2601, the Job Opportunities between Our Shores (JOBS) Act, a bill to promote advanced manufacturing in the Inland Empire and throughout the United States and give dislocated workers the training and skills they need to find new jobs in growing industries. “My bill will connect educational institutions and manufacturers, so that we can make sure job seekers are trained in the skills employers demand. Right here in the Inland Empire, we’ve seen the success of the partnership between California Steel Industries and Chaffey College,” said Torres. “This is a model we should grow and build upon as manufacturing jobs in the Inland Empire and across the country are bouncing back. Now is the time to keep the momentum moving forward by making sure American workers are able to stay ahead of the curve.” Last year, Chaffey College was awarded nearly $15 million by the Department of Labor and the Department of Education to create a STEM Education Business Incubator Center at CSI to improve manufacturing training in the region. The JOBS Act would authorize the Secretary of Labor to initiate similar pilot projects between educational institutions and workforce investment boards and advanced manufacturers in order to facilitate education and training programs in the field of advanced manufacturing. Eligible recipients must demonstrate their capacity to teach advanced manufacturing concepts and how they will help workers develop the skills that will lead to an industry-recognized credential. “There is no question that the global economy is only becoming more and more competitive,” continued Torres. “If the recession has taught us anything it is that in order to build a resilient economy that can withstand future economic challenges, we need a dynamic, educated workforce and a diverse local economy. Comprehensive, demand-driven training programs will help us do just that.” The JOBS Act is the second bill Rep. Torres has introduced based on recommendations from her district-wide Job Creation Listening Tour during which she met with local economic stakeholders, education professionals, employees, and business owners to discuss the challenges facing the Inland Empire economy and their ideas for jumpstarting economic growth. The full report that was published at the conclusion of the tour, which includes additional recommendations, can be found here. ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) sent a letter signed by 15 other Members of Congress to the Department of Education asking for a clear, efficient process for former students of Corinthian Colleges, Inc. to apply to have federal loans forgiven. “Corinthian’s deceptive practices have jeopardized the financial and academic futures of thousands of students,” said Torres. “Many were tricked by these institutions into taking out loans for what they thought would be an investment in their future, but they are now left saddled with debt and little to show for it.” Under current law, students can have their federal loans discharged if their school abruptly closes or is found to be in violation of state law. However, there have been reports of delays and misinformation for students seeking relief. “The 16,000 students whose studies were abruptly cut short as well as thousands more with essentially worthless degrees, have already suffered enough,” said Torres. “The Department of Education should do everything they can to make these students whole so that they can move on with their lives .” Corinthian Colleges, Inc. abruptly closed many of its campuses after filing for bankruptcy and has been fined by the Department of Education $29.6 million for defrauding students by falsifying job placement reports. Click here to view the letter and complete list of cosigners.
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced legislation designed to attract private sector financing to public infrastructure projects. The Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act (RIAA) will connect finance and infrastructure professionals with local and state governments to provide them with the technical expertise and pre-development capital needed to attract private investment. “Yesterday’s passage of another short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund made clear that our communities cannot rely on government alone to fund the nation’s roads, bridges, and water facilities,” said Torres. “As our nation’s infrastructure funding needs continue to grow, this bill will provide local communities the technical assistance they need to develop their projects so that private funding can come in and help fill the gap.” According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the United States needs to invest $3.6 trillion over the next five years alone to adequately fund the country’s infrastructure needs. Though infrastructure projects can serve as solid investment opportunities, thus far, private capital has shied away from public infrastructure projects, because many lack access to private investors as well as the pre-development planning needed to attract private financing. RIAA would help attract outside financing through the creation and funding of Regional Infrastructure Accelerators. Through these multi-state organizations, local and state governments would receive the technical assistance and funding needed to undertake feasibility analyses, preliminary design, and other necessary studies required to get a project off the ground. Accelerators would also provide a vehicle to match projects with interested investors and for developing best practices and regional strategic planning. “This bill is a smart public policy,” stated Jonathan Trutt, Interim Executive Director of the West Coast Infrastructure Exchange, a regional organization created by the Governors and Treasurers of the west coast states and the Premier of British Columbia to spur innovation through the use of public-private partnerships and to accelerate a pipeline of infrastructure projects in California, Oregon, and Washington. “It will foster the regional expertise necessary to tackle our infrastructure needs, create living-wage jobs, ensure our economic competitiveness, and preserve our quality of life. It is a wise investment in our future that will benefit California and the whole country.” “Public-private partnerships are an important tool for local and state governments to get the financing we need to pay for vital infrastructure projects,” said City of Rialto Councilman Ed Scott who was Mayor Pro Tem when the city entered into a ground-breaking arrangement with Ullico and Table Rock Capital to fund Rialto Water Services, LLC. “RIAA will give communities like Rialto greater access to new funding opportunities and will save taxpayer dollars by helping localities with the expensive pre-development planning that we need to attract investment but that is often too costly for smaller localities to undertake.” The text of the bill can be found here. ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement in response to the passage of a two month extension of the Highway Trust Fund: While I voted for this latest extension, it falls far short of meeting our country’s transportation and infrastructure needs. Our communities don’t need another rushed two month extension. States and localities need the certainty and ability to plan for the future that is only possible with a long-term transportation bill. Long-term investment in infrastructure was a key component of my jobs plan, because it is the foundation of economic growth. Every time we kick the can down the road, our freeways become more congested, our bridges become less safe, our rail systems become more outdated, and our economy becomes less competitive. As the backlog of infrastructure projects continues to grow, Congress must not only support long-term federal funding but also look for innovative ways to finance public infrastructure projects. I hope my colleagues will use these next two months to sit down and work to craft a truly bipartisan, forward-thinking, and comprehensive transportation bill that will meet our nation’s infrastructure needs for years to come. ###
05.12.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted a meeting with representatives of local water agencies to discuss the impact of the state’s new water regulations. “There is no question that we must all do our part to address the drought. However, it has been disconcerting to learn that while our local utilities have long taken a lead in water conservation, they may now be punished for these efforts,” said Torres. “As the new regulations begin to go into effect, it is my priority to better understand how the regulations will affect Inland Empire consumers and ensure my constituents are treated fairly.” Attending the meeting, held at the Inland Empire Utilities Agency, were representatives from every city in the 35th congressional district. They discussed the implementation of California’s new water regulations which were approved by the State Water Resources Control Board on May 5th. Under the new rules, localities are required to reduce water consumption by anywhere from 8-36% of their summer 2014 usage. Despite heavy criticism from local utilities, the revised regulations fail to take into account water conservation savings prior to 2013, do not adjust for climate or housing density, and provide no credit for innovative water conservation investments. Many of the utilities within the Inland Empire have undertaken costly infrastructure improvement projects over the course of several years such as desalination facilities and laying miles of purple pipe for recycled water. The new regulations do not take these prior investments into consideration when determining each community’s consumption baseline. “Inland Empire utilities, and by extension consumers, have long been willing to make the sacrifices needed to better preserve our precious water resources. It is now time for those who failed to act in the past to step up to the plate. Though we all have a responsibility to cut back, my constituents shouldn’t be unfairly burdened,” continued Torres. “These new regulations effectively reward communities that sat on their hands as the drought got continuously worse and penalize those, like many in the Inland Empire, that had the foresight to take a proactive role and invested millions in tax payer dollars over the past ten years to reduce water consumption. Yesterday’s meeting provided important first-hand feedback and an opportunity for collaboration as we all work to implement the new rules and advocate for Inland Empire consumers.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. ###
05.07.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) joined a bipartisan group of Congresswomen on a trip to Afghanistan where they celebrated Mother’s Day with female service members. She was joined by Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ), and Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN). “As the mother of an Air Force veteran, I have an enormous amount of admiration for these dedicated women and the sacrifices they’ve made to keep our nation safe,” said Torres. “While the rest of us celebrate with our families this Sunday, let’s remember the many women whose service to our country keeps them thousands of miles away from their children.” Torres delivered Mother’s Day cards made by students from St. Joseph Elementary School in Pomona at a Mother’s Day luncheon where the Congresswomen and female service members discussed the unique challenges facing women and mothers in the armed forces. “I was grateful for the opportunity to speak face-to-face with our troops on the ground,” continued Torres. “Hearing their experiences and getting a glimpse at their daily lives will be invaluable as Congress takes on difficult foreign policy and defense issues.” This marked Torres’s first trip to the Middle East and Afghanistan as a Member of Congress. During the trip, the Congresswomen also met with female Afghan parliamentarians and were briefed by military and civilian leadership in both Afghanistan and Kuwait on ongoing operations in the region. Downloadable photos of the trip can be found here: https://www.flickr.com/photos/130480470@N05/sets/72157652011907099/.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) released A Roadmap to Economic Resilience in the Inland Empire, a comprehensive plan to create jobs and grow the Inland Empire economy. The plan is the product of a district-wide listening tour where Torres met with local economic leaders, education professionals, employees, and business owners to discuss the challenges facing the Inland Empire economy and their ideas for jumpstarting economic growth. “After seven roundtable discussions, tours of some of our region’s largest employers, and discussions with over 200 local stakeholders, one point is clear: the Inland Empire has enormous economic potential,” said Torres. “I believe the recommendations we developed are essential to bringing quality, high-paying jobs to our community and ensuring a lasting economic recovery for us all.” The report focuses on four key areas in growing the local economy: investing in the region’s infrastructure, developing the Inland Empire’s workforce, helping small businesses succeed, and diversifying the local economy. “By focusing on a multi-faceted, long-term strategy that incorporates the input of the very people who are fueling our economic recovery, we will not only build a stronger economy but a resilient one that will withstand future economic downturns,” continued Torres. “I encourage local residents to visit my website to read the full report, and I welcome their feedback.” Torres is expected to introduce her first bill to come out of the listening tour, legislation designed to attract private investment for public infrastructure projects, in the coming weeks. The following are some of the specific policy recommendations included in the plan: Completion of the Gold Line Foothill extension to the Ontario Airport in order to increase passenger traffic and attract investment in the surrounding communities and attain local control of the Ontario Airport, including full-time leadership, to attract more air service routes and increase the travel options for residents and businesses of the Inland Empire. Support legislation that encourages local technical assistance for infrastructure projects across sectors to attract private capital in order to meet the growing infrastructure investment gap and develop a freight plan that recognizes the needs of the region and the region’s role in the movement of goods Expand programs such as the partnership between Chaffey College, California Steel Industries, and the Inland Empire Regional Training Consortium by providing incentives to industries and training providers in the region that partner with local community colleges and help pay student tuition costs. Increase small business access to capital, including microfinance lending programs that assist small business owners and women, low-income, veteran, and minority entrepreneurs and promote such programs in languages other than English. Eliminate barriers keeping small businesses from receiving a fair share of government contracts such as reducing the practice of “bundling” requirements into contracts unsuitable for performance by small business and requiring the Small Business Administration to make recommendations as to what particular acquisitions should be awarded to a small business. Increase awareness of the services that SBA provides to entrepreneurs by holding periodic seminars or roundtables where SBA representatives meet with local business owners. Click here to view the report. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) introduced a resolution commemorating National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week which is recognized the second week of April of every year. “After 18 years as a 911 dispatcher, I know first-hand the challenges our public safety dispatchers face, the stress they are put under, and the critical importance of their work,” said Torres. “911 dispatchers are the unsung heroes of the first responder community.” With over 6,000 public safety call centers, known as public safety answering points, and a workforce numbering between 200,000 and 600,000, public safety telecommunicators are an important part of the first responder community and provide critical support to the nation’s law enforcement, fire, and rescue personnel. National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week was created to raise public awareness of the important role public safety telecommunicators play in preserving public safety and general welfare. “While we recognize and honor the hundreds of thousands of public safety telecommunicators working around the clock to keep our communities safe, let’s also remember the appropriate uses of 911 and the importance of maintaining lines available for true emergencies,” Torres continued. “Day in and day out, dispatchers face incredible pressure to provide help and coordinate emergency personnel at a moment’s notice, making every second count. Non-emergency calls hamper their ability to do so.” Below is a list of non-emergency numbers for residents of California’s 35th District should they require assistance in non-life threatening situations: San Bernardino County non-emergency numbers: Chino: (909) 628- 1234 Fontana: (909) 822-1121 or (909) 350-7700 Montclair: (909) 621-4771 Rialto: (909) 820-2550 Ontario: (909) 395-2001 Land Use Services Department (Abandoned Vehicles, building permits and removal, illegal dumping): (909) 884-4056 Adult Protective Services: (877) 565-2020 Animal Control: (800) 472-5609 Child Abuse Hotline and Children’s Services: (800) 827-8724 For additional information visit: https://www.sbcounty.gov/main/services.asp L.A. County/ Pomona non-emergency numbers: General non- emergency number: 909-622-1241 Community Programs and Neighborhood Watch: (909) 620-2318 Records Bureau: (909) 620-2161 Internal Affairs: (909) 620-2142 Traffic Bureau (parking citations, street sweeping, collision reports, vehicle impounds and storage): (909) 620-2081 Anonymously Report Suspicious Activity, Threats or Crime: (800) 782-7463 For additional information visit: https://www.ci.pomona.ca.us/index.php/government/city-departments/police-department
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introduced the DHS Communication Enhancement Act, a bill that requires the Department of Homeland Security to assess its ability to effectively serve and communicate with individuals of limited English proficiency. “Every year, the Department of Homeland Security interacts with thousands of individuals who don’t speak English, often in their most vulnerable times,” said Torres. “The ability to effectively communicate with the people it serves is critical to the Department’s mission to protect our nation.” The DHS Communication Enhancement Act requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to assess the Department’s ability to serve individuals with limited English proficiency and requires the Secretary to submit to Congress a summary of its findings and a plan, including a timeline for implementation, to improve the Department’s ability to serve non-English speakers. “I have spent my political career working to make sure under-represented and non-English speaking communities have access to critical services. Nowhere is that more important than in DHS’s work,” continued Torres. “With employees spread across 22 different sub-agencies working to secure our cities from terrorist attacks, protect and ensure the efficient movement of people and goods at our airports and borders, and help communities recover from natural disasters, this bill will help the Department better protect our diverse population and keep the American people safe.” Earlier reports by the Government Accountability Office and DHS itself have shown deficiencies in the capacity of individual components of DHS to interact with and effectively serve non-English speaking communities. This legislation will keep the Department accountable by not only requiring an assessment but a Department-wide strategic plan and a timeline for implementation. A copy of the bill is attached. ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Hoy, la Congresista Norma J. Torres (D-CA) introdujo el proyecto de ley, “DHS Communication Enhancement Act,” que requiere al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional que evalúe como se comunica con individuos que hablan poco o nada de inglés. “Cada año, el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional interactúa con miles de individuos que no hablan inglés y muchas veces, en sus momentos más vulnerables,” dijo Torres. “La habilidad de comunicarse efectivamente con las personas que el departamento está encargado en ayudar es fundamental a la misión del departamento de proteger a nuestra nación.” El “DHS Communication Enhancement Act” requiere que el departamento evalúe su habilidad de servir individuos con inglés limitado y requiere que el departamento presente un plan al Congreso detallando las medidas que tomará para aliviar las deficiencias. “Durante mi carrera política he trabajado para asegurar que las comunidades menos representadas y de inglés limitado tengan acceso a servicios esenciales. No hay lugar mejor donde esto es más importante que en los esfuerzos del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional,” siguió Torres. “El departamento tiene empleados en 22 sub-agencias trabajando para proteger a nuestras ciudades contra ataques terroristas, para asegurar el movimiento eficiente de personas y mercancía por nuestros aeropuertos y nuestras fronteras, y para ayudar a comunidades recuperarse de desastres naturales. Este proyecto de ley ayudará al departamento mejor proteger nuestra población diversa y mantener la seguridad del pueblo americano.” Previos reportes llevados a cabo por la Oficina de Responsabilidad Gubernamental y el mismo Departamento de Seguridad Nacional han revelado faltas en la capacidad del departamento en como interactúa con comunidades donde no hablan inglés. Este proyecto no solo requiere una evaluación sino también, un plan estratégico y un calendario para su ejecución. ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) reflected on her first 100 days in Congress. Since taking office, Torres has worked with her colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a variety of legislative initiatives, completed an extensive district-wide job creation listening tour, and built a robust constituent services operation. Legislation introduced: Today, Torres introduced the DHS Communication Enhancement Act which requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to assess the Department’s ability to serve individuals with limited English proficiency and requires the Secretary to submit to Congress a summary of its findings and a plan, including a timeline for implementation, to improve the Department’s ability to serve non-English speakers. Legislation cosponsored: Torres has cosponsored 39 bills, 18 of which were sponsored or cosponsored by Republicans. Three of the bills she cosponsored have been passed by the House of Representatives. They were the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2015, the Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act of 2015, and a bill to Award a Gold Medal to those who participated in Bloody Sunday, Turnaround Tuesday, or the final Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March in March of 1965. Jobs Listening Tour: Torres undertook a district-wide listening tour to meet with a cross-section of constituents, businesses, and local leaders to hear their ideas on creating jobs and growing the Inland Empire economy. In total, she held seven roundtable meetings focusing on a variety of industries and toured several of the district’s largest employers, hearing concerns and suggestions from over 200 people. A report detailing her findings will be released on May 1st. Constituent Services: Torres opened a new district office in Ontario conveniently located for residents of the 35th District. In addition to hosting her inaugural Congressional Art Competition for local high school students and one Congress on Your Corner and two senior scam stopper seminars to provide help to area residents, the Congresswoman’s office has responded to 88 constituent assistance request, 42 of which have been closed, and provided tours of the U.S. Capitol to 72 visitors from the 35th District. She has also sent out 834 responses to constituent inquiries. “From day one, I have been committed to supporting our local economy, expanding access to education, and making our community a safe and attractive place to work, live, and raise a family,” said Torres. “The past 100 days have provided me with an incredible opportunity to meet with constituents from every corner of the 35th District and hear their concerns, ideas, and aspirations. I am committed to spending the next 100 days and beyond working hard for the residents of the 35th District.” ###
04.13.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) and Neighborhood Partnership Housing Services (NPHS) proudly announced the awarding of $293,000 to advance sustainable homeownership and financial education throughout the Inland Empire. The much-needed funding was provided by NeighborWorks® America to NPHS, a congressionally chartered non-profit community development organization dedicated to revitalizing local neighborhoods through homeownership and wealth building. Through the grant, NPHS will continue providing a comprehensive range of services to low- and moderate-income families, including home buyer and financial education, foreclosure prevention counseling, down payment assistance, property redevelopment and realty services. “We are grateful for the support of Congresswoman Torres and NeighborWorks America,” said Clemente Mojica, CEO of NPHS. “These funds will provide thousands of working families with access to critical housing and financial resources.” With stagnant wages and the continued increase in home prices, many Southern California families have been unable to achieve homeownership and access mainstream financial services. Such economic challenges underlie the need for continued grant funding to Inland Empire communities. “The work of organizations like NPHS play a vital role in the Inland Empire’s ongoing recovery from the recession and housing crisis,” said Congresswoman Torres. “These additional funds will enable them to continue to provide needed services in our community and help make the American dream a reality for even more Inland Empire residents.” ###
04.08.2015	ONTARIO, CA – Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) hosted her inaugural Congressional Art Competition for the 35th congressional district at an awards ceremony and exhibition at the dA Center for the Arts in Pomona. The winning piece by Syrena Nadine Payton, a senior at Chaffey High School, was selected out of 81 pieces submitted from 78 participants representing 11 high schools throughout the district. “Today’s exhibition is a reminder of the need to foster and promote the arts in our community and invest in arts education. Whether a student becomes the next Picasso or never picks up a paintbrush again, the arts help students expand their creativity and develop skills that apply to all aspects of their academic and professional lives,” Torres continued. “We’ve set the bar high for our inaugural competition, and I hope in the coming years this event will only continue to grow.” Payton’s landscape, Reflections and Serenity, will now be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for one year, and she is invited to a reception in Washington, DC, honoring winners from throughout the United States. She will also receive two roundtrip tickets courtesy of Southwest Airlines and a scholarship to Savannah College of Art and Design. “It is an honor to be able to recognize the impressive young artistic talent here in the 35th District,” said Torres. “Our judges certainly had their work cut out for them. The quantity and quality of submissions blew me away, and I cannot wait to see what the future holds for Syrene and the other young artists exhibiting today.” Winners were selected by a panel of expert judges which included Michael Franceschi, Supervising Animator at Walt Disney Animatoin Studios, Sara Angne of The Art Institute of California – Inland Empire, and Juanita Trujillo from the Museum of Latin American Art. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA) issued the following statement on the passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Resolution in the House of Representatives: I came to Congress to work on legislation that promotes our nation’s and the Inland Empire's long-term economic growth, and I am disappointed that the Republican budget considered today would reverse our economic progress. I believe a budget should reflect our national priorities and promote ideas like investing in education, modernizing our infrastructure, and reforming the tax code to help middle class families. Instead, this Republican budget plays a dangerous game with America’s future. While I am committed to making college more affordable for students in the Inland Empire, this Republican budget cuts Pell Grants for over one million California young people. As our workforce adapts to changing conditions, we can’t afford to cut job training and employment services or to eliminate the Manufacturing Enhancement Partnership, which helps small to medium-sized firms compete more effectively. We should, as the Democratic alternative did, extend tax deductions for small businesses and encourage the Small Business Administration to address the funding challenges facing many small businesses so that they can expand and create new jobs. I am also proud to stand with seniors to protect and preserve Medicare, and will oppose any attempts to turn this program into a voucher system. As my record in the state legislature shows, I am no stranger to making difficult budget choices. The budget before us today however, is misguided and irresponsible, and will halt the progress the Inland Empire has made in finally working our way out of the recession. Congress must work to foster economic growth and prosperity by making college more affordable, modernizing our nation’s infrastructure, and supporting hard-working American families. Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th Congressional District and serves on the House Natural Resources and Homeland Security Committees. ###
03.18.2015	TORRES HONORED AMONG FEMALE STATE SENATORS, PAST AND PRESENT WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) issued the following statement on the rededication of the California Senate’s Rose Ann Vuich Hearing Room, featuring the photographs of the 42 women who have served in the Senate: I am honored to stand alongside this group of dedicated, talented women. Whether Republican or Democrat, Southern Californians or Northern Californians, from urban or rural districts, we were all united by the desire to serve the people of this great state, even when the establishment thought otherwise. It is incredible to think that less than 40 years ago, not a single woman had served in the California Senate. Rose Ann Vuich broke that barrier and paved the way for the rest of us. She was an independent spirit who was never afraid to break with her own party when it came to the needs of those back home, and she continues to serve as a role model for those of us who followed in her footsteps. Over the last 40 years, women in California, and across this country, have broken through countless glass ceilings, but the work continues. Women still only account for a quarter of the California legislature, and a woman has yet to serve as Governor of our state. We must continue to push forward until the day when every little girl can imagine her future and sees no goal as insurmountable, and every woman is afforded the opportunity to reach her full potential. Torres was first elected to the California State Assembly in 2008 and went on to serve in the State Senate from May 2013 through November 2014 when she was elected to Congress. Since her departure, there is currently no Latina serving in the California Senate. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), released the following statement following House passage of a bill funding the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2015: I am pleased we have been able to pass a bill and guarantee funding for the Department of Homeland Security for the coming year, but disappointed we ever got to this point. Our national security agencies need certainty, consistency, and the ability to adequately plan and prepare for the long-term. Placing unnecessary burdens on the Department that is tasked with keeping this nation safe was reckless and irresponsible. Moving forward, I hope my colleagues will put politics aside and put the needs of the American people first. Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - During the recent District Work period, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) was joined by Committee on Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) on a tour of the Port of Long Beach’s Joint Command and Control Center (JCCC). The state-of-the-art JCCC is responsible for monitoring security above, on, and below the waters surrounding the Port of Long Beach. It houses the Port of Long Beach Security Division and Harbor Patrol and units from the Long Beach Police Department, Port of Los Angeles, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and Marine Exchange. “At a time when our national security faces unprecedented threats, it is reassuring to know that we have such an impressive facility here in our own backyard,” said Torres, a member of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Maritime and Border Security. “It was eye-opening to see first-hand the work of so many dedicated personnel committed to protecting our homeland and highlighted the importance of giving our national security agencies the tools and funding they need so they can effectively respond to emergencies and security threats.” Rep. Torres and Ranking Member Thompson were joined by representatives from the Port of Long Beach, Port of Los Angeles, and the Long Beach Police Department. In addition to a tour of the Port’s security operations, Torres and Thompson also received extensive briefings on port security at the San Pedro Bay Ports. “I was pleased to visit the Port of Long Beach Command and Control Center, which is part of the largest port complex in the country. Congresswoman Torres showed me the steps the facility has been taking to advance port security – a critical part of our homeland security infrastructure. Facilities such as the Command and Control Center receive homeland security grants which would be threatened in a possible DHS shutdown, so it is imperative we keep this funding stream open,” said Ranking Member Thompson. “Although she has just joined the Committee on Homeland Security, I am impressed with Congresswoman Torres’s start, and I look forward to working with her this Congress.” The Port of Long Beach handles over $100 billion in goods annually, supports about 1.4 million U.S. jobs, and generates roughly $15 billion in trade-related wages, and along with the neighboring Port of Los Angeles, they create the largest active port in the U.S. and the fifth largest in the world. “Ensuring that we keep one of the nation’s most critical assets safe is among our top priorities at the Port of Long Beach,” stated Harbor Commission Vice President, Rich Dines. “We are proud of the partnership that we have with Congress Members Thompson and Torres, along with other law enforcement and first responders to implement programs to secure the port complex.” ###
02.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna González February 25, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 REP. TORRES WARNS OF LOCAL IMPACT OF DHS SHUTDOWN WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona), a member of the Homeland Security Committee, warned that a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) could directly disrupt millions of dollars in federal public safety grants in the state of California, including $1.6 million in Ontario and surrounding areas alone. “While some are treating a possible shutdown of DHS as a political game, we are putting our national security and the safety of our local communities at risk,” said Torres. “It is time to bring this disappointing episode to a close and pass a clean DHS funding bill now – without any policy riders.” Unless Congress acts within the next three days, DHS, which administers federal fire service grants, would be forced to shut down and their ability to distribute these crucial funds to localities could be disrupted. The City of Ontario Fire Department currently has $1.6 million in award funds for personal protective equipment that have not yet been disbursed. The fire departments of Montclair, Upland, and Rancho Cucamonga, who are working closely with the Ontario Fire Department with this grant, would also benefit from these funds and could be impacted by a shutdown. “Having spent much of my career in public safety, I know how important it is to be able to plan, prepare, and maintain the morale of those on the front lines,” Torres continued. “These grants help our communities meet critical emergency management needs and make sure our first responders have the equipment they need to keep us and themselves safe. Putting these funds at risk is reckless. It’s time to stop playing political games and bring a clean funding bill for a vote.” A full list of municipalities in California that received Fiscal Year 2013 Assistance to Firefighters, Fire Prevention and Safety, and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants that could be affected if the department shuts down include: City of Adelanto/SBCoFD Technology Upgrade Adelanto Operations and Safety $16,200.00 Alameda Fire Department Alameda Fire Prevention $80,954.00 Anaheim Fire & Rescue Anaheim Operations and Safety $380,700.00 Cahuilla Indian Reservation Anza Hiring $85,280.00 Apple Valley Fire Protection District Apple Valley Operations and Safety $370,926.00 Atwater Fire Department Atwater Operations and Safety $24,315.00 Placer County Fire Department Auburn Operations and Safety $52,290.00 Auburn Volunteer Fire Department Auburn Operations and Safety $23,592.00 Higgins Area Fire Protection District Auburn Hiring $966,000.00 Kern County Fire Department Bakersfield Operations and Safety $212,171.00 Barstow Fire District Barstow Combination $77,524.00 Barstow Fire District Barstow Hiring $1,392,882.00 City of Benicia Benicia Operations and Safety $100,148.00 Big Bear City Fire Department Big Bear City Operations and Safety $94,977.00 Big Creek Volunteer Fire Dept Big Creek Operations and Safety $7,671.00 Big Sur Volunteer Fire Brigade Big Sur Operations and Safety $24,768.00 Bodega Bay Fire Protection District Bodega Bay Operations and Safety $50,178.00 Firefighter Cancer Support Network Burbank Fire Prevention $307,224.00 Central County Fire Department Burlingame Operations and Safety $89,195.00 North County Fire Protection District Castroville Operations and Safety $121,578.00 Ceres Department of Public Safety- Fire Division Ceres Operations and Safety $71,316.00 City of Chico Fire and Rescue Chico Hiring $5,289,450.00 Compton Fire Department Compton Operations and Safety $212,229.00 Cottonwood Fire Protection District Cottonwood Operations and Safety $80,210.00 Daly City Fire Department Daly City Operations and Safety $51,201.00 City of Davis Fire Department Davis Operations and Safety $352,151.00 Dorris Volunteer Fire Department Dorris Operations and Safety $99,214.00 City of El Centro Fire Department El Centro Operations and Safety $236,241.00 Deer Springs Fire Protection Escondido Operations and Safety $22,178.00 Farmersville Fire Department Farmersville Hiring $453,294.00 City of San Mateo Fire Department Foster City Operations and Safety $68,365.00 City of Fresno - Fire Department Fresno Operations and Safety $337,095.00 City of Fresno - Fire Department Fresno Hiring $2,587,200.00 Greenfield Fire Protection District Greenfield Hiring $297,478.00 City of Hayward Fire Department Hayward Operations and Safety $614,453.00 Rodeo-Hercules Fire Protection District Hercules Hiring $2,475,991.00 Hollister Fire Department Hollister Hiring $2,199,420.00 Huntington Beach Fire Department Huntington Beach Operations and Safety $69,952.00 Imperial Beach Fire Department Imperial Beach Hiring $567,072.00 Independence Volunteer Fire Protection District Independence Operations and Safety $61,584.00 City of Ione Fire Department Ione Operations and Safety $304,798.00 Jackson Rancheria Fire Department Jackson Combination $26,795.00 City of La Mesa Fire Department La Mesa Operations and Safety $16,715.00 La Verne Fire Department La Verne Operations and Safety $70,200.00 City of Larkspur Larkspur Operations and Safety $138,368.00 Lathrop Manteca Fire District Lathrop Operations and Safety $1,899,293.00 MySafeLA Los Angeles Fire Prevention $568,376.00 Marysville Fire Department Marysville Combination $285,000.00 Marysville Fire Department Marysville Hiring $758,952.00 City of Merced Fire Department Merced Operations and Safety $66,773.00 City of Merced Fire Department Merced Operations and Safety $72,678.00 Millbrae Fire Department Millbrae Operations and Safety $25,871.00 Milpitas Fire Department Milpitas Operations and Safety $48,713.00 Modesto Regional Fire Authority Modesto Operations and Safety $91,613.00 Montebello Fire Department Montebello Operations and Safety $129,600.00 Moraga Orinda Fire District Moraga Operations and Safety $125,910.00 South Santa Clara County Fire District Morgan Hill Hiring $533,052.00 Mount Shasta Fire Protection District Mount Shasta Operations and Safety $54,146.00 mt shasta city fire department Mount Shasta Operations and Safety $54,801.00 Newport Beach Fire Department Newport Beach All Paid/Career $69,579.00 Oakland Fire Department Oakland Operations and Safety $246,514.00 City of Ontario Fire Department Ontario Operations and Safety $1,618,469.00 El Medio Fire Protection District Oroville Combination $48,231.00 City of Oroville Fire Department Oroville Hiring $814,232.00 Butte County Fire Department Oroville Recruitment $336,500.00 City of Oxnard Oxnard Operations and Safety $329,850.00 City of Oxnard Oxnard Operations and Safety $204,750.00 City of Oxnard Oxnard Fire Prevention $213,750.00 Pasadena, City of Pasadena Operations and Safety $508,747.00 Contra Costa County Fire Protection District Pleasant Hill Operations and Safety $21,780.00 Contra Costa County Fire Protection District Pleasant Hill Hiring $9,571,500.00 Porterville Fire Department Porterville Combination $18,526.00 Tehama County Fire Department Red Bluff Hiring $1,112,599.00 Shasta County Fire Department Redding Hiring $1,131,594.00 City of Redlands Fire Department Redlands Combination $73,571.00 City of Rio Vista Fire Department Rio Vista Hiring $799,218.00 City of Riverside Fire Department Riverside All Paid/Career $522,089.00 City of Salinas Fire Department Salinas Operations and Safety $810,350.00 City of Salinas Fire Department Salinas Hiring $2,905,419.00 Salyer Volunteer Fire Department Salyer Operations and Safety $40,248.00 Samoa Peninsula Fire District Samoa All volunteer $33,127.00 Ross Valley Fire Department San Anselmo Operations and Safety $250,389.00 San Bruno Fire Department San Bruno Operations and Safety $58,208.00 San Francisco Fire Department San Francisco Operations and Safety $1,485,014.00 San Jose Fire Department San Jose Operations and Safety $2,012,035.00 San Jose Fire Department San Jose Operations and Safety $72,930.00 Alameda County Fire Department San Leandro Vehicle Acquisition $765,000.00 Alameda County Fire Department San Leandro Hiring $4,165,488.00 University Auxiliary and Research Services Corpora San Marcos Fire Prevention $911,703.00 Santa Barbara City Fire Department Santa Barbara Operations and Safety $591,311.00 Santa Maria City Fire Department Santa Maria Operations and Safety $59,527.00 Santa Monica Fire Department Santa Monica Operations and Safety $32,400.00 Santa Rosa Fire Department Santa Rosa Operations and Safety $347,061.00 Santa Rosa Fire Department Santa Rosa Hiring $853,356.00 Santa Rosa Fire Department Santa Rosa Fire Prevention $27,039.00 Seaside Fire Department Seaside Operations and Safety $90,000.00 Fire Chiefs Association of Shasta County Shasta Lake Recruitment $1,574,600.00 Sierra County Fire Protection District #1 Sierraville Operations and Safety $211,996.00 Tuolumne County Fire Department Sonora Recruitment $543,984.00 Lake Valley Fire Protection District South Lake Tahoe Combination $256,500.00 Fallen Leaf Fire Department South Lake Tahoe Vehicle Acquisition $353,400.00 Strawberry Fire Protection District Strawberry Operations and Safety $52,378.00 Strawberry Fire Protection District Strawberry Vehicle Acquisition $369,205.00 North Tahoe Fire Protection District Tahoe City Operations and Safety $155,936.00 North Tahoe Fire Protection District Tahoe City Hiring $1,614,627.00 Calaveras Consolidated Fire Protection District Valley Springs Operations and Safety $53,202.00 City of Ventura Fire Department Ventura Hiring $2,430,056.00 Victorville Fire Department Victorville All Paid/Career $50,400.00 Victorville Fire Department Victorville Vehicle Acquisition $497,565.00 Los Coyotes Band of Indians Warner Springs Operations and Safety $37,876.00 West Covina Fire Department West Covina Hiring $4,661,329.00 Wheatland Fire Authority Wheatland Vehicle Acquisition $256,798.00 Winterhaven Fire Protection District Winterhaven Paid On-Call/Stipend $36,404.00 Woodside Fire Protection District Woodside Operations and Safety $49,676.00 Yuba City Fire Department Yuba City Operations and Safety $18,383.00 Sutter Co. Fire Department Yuba City Operations and Safety $438,168.00 City of Napa Napa Hiring $850,146.00
02.23.2015	ONTARIO, CA - Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) announced the launch of a district-wide economic listening tour. Over the next several weeks, the Congresswoman will convene a series of meetings throughout the district with a cross-section of constituents, businesses, and local leaders to hear their ideas on creating jobs and growing the region’s economy. “As I begin my first term in Congress, it is my priority to make sure my work on Capitol Hill effectively addresses the needs of my community,” said Torres. “I want to hear their recommendations and their concerns so that we can work together to help the Inland Empire reach its fullest potential.” Prior to the announcement, Congresswoman Torres met with local labor leaders to discuss opportunities for job training and held a productive roundtable discussion with representatives from local chambers of commerce to present her proposal for the listening tour and gather their suggestions. “This listening tour is an innovative approach to making sure Washington policies meet the needs of Inland businesses,” stated Peggi Hazlett, President and CEO of the Ontario Chamber of Commerce. “The timing is especially key. By undertaking this listening tour at the start of her first term in Congress, Rep. Torres will be able to use the input of local business owners and community development leaders to craft a comprehensive legislative strategy. I look forward to partnering with Rep. Torres and other local leaders as we work to find ways to create jobs and spur economic development in the Inland Empire.” “The ideas that come out of the listening tour will shape my legislative agenda in DC,” continued Torres. “I hope that together, we can develop innovative legislation and policy proposals that will create jobs and grow the Inland economy. We’re at a crucial point in the country’s economic recovery, and I will fight to ensure the Inland Empire doesn't get left behind.” ###
02.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna González February 10, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 REP. TORRES PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF AIRPORT SECURITY BILL WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-Pomona) applauded the passage of H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act. Torres was an original cosponsor of the legislation which is named after a TSA officer killed in the line of duty in a 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. “Congress should do everything in its power to ensure tragedies like the horrific shooting at LAX are never repeated,” said Torres. “The bill passed today will provide assurance to travelers that regardless of their destination within the U.S., each airport has the necessary procedures in place to quickly and adequately respond to dangerous situations and protect the lives of those in harm’s way.” The Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act directs the Department of Homeland Security to ensure airports have in place individualized working plans for responding to security incidents inside an airport’s perimeter. Currently, airports implement these plans on an ad-hoc basis and are inconsistent across airports. “With my district home to Ontario International Airport, I recognize the vital need to protect the safety of those who travel by air, including the nearly 80 million passengers who travel through the Los Angeles area each year,” continued Torres. “Our region is a major tourist destination, transit hub, and epicenter for international commerce. We are not only a target for those who wish to do this nation harm, but our economic well-being is dependent on our ability to instill confidence in those who travel to LA and the Inland Empire.” Rep. Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district and is a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security. ###
02.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna González February 2, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 REP. TORRES APPLAUDS INVESTMENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA AS PART OF PRESIDENT’S BUDGET WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) released the following statement applauding President Obama’s request for $1 billion as part of his Fiscal Year 2016 budget to invest in security, governance, and economic initiatives in Central America: “The problems facing El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras extend far beyond poverty and a lack of economic opportunity. These countries also face extreme violence, rampant corruption, and weak government institutions. Without a deliberate, coordinated strategy from the United States incorporating regional partners and the governments of the Northern Triangle countries, the impact on the United States and the region will go far beyond refugees at our border. It is in both our economic and security interests to be a leader and effective partner in the region. The President’s request is not a blank check. U.S. assistance will be focused on strengthening government institutions and rule-of-law, improving community security and attacking organized crime, and promoting economic reforms to encourage private investment and economic growth in the region. These efforts must also include specific metrics for measuring the impact of our programs and resource allocations. Ultimately, success will be dependent on the countries taking ownership of the problems they face and showing the political will necessary to tackle systemic change. As the President’s request makes its way through Congress, I urge my colleagues to support the President’s efforts and recognize what is at stake if we refuse to help. To that effect, in the coming days, I will be reaching out to my colleagues to raise awareness about the problems facing the region and better coordinate legislative efforts impacting Central America. Change in the region will not come quickly, but it is a worthwhile and necessary endeavor.” Born in Escuintla, Guatemala, Rep. Torres represents the 35th District of California, comprising eastern portions of Los Angeles County and parts of San Bernadino County. ###
02.02.2015	PARA DIFUSIÓN INMEDIATA Contacto: Anna González 2 de febrero de 2015 Teléfono: (202) 225 - 6161 CONGRESISTA TORRES APLAUDE FONDOS PARA CENTRO AMERICA EN PRESUPUESTO DE OBAMA WASHINGTON, DC - Hoy, la Congresista Norma J. Torres (D-CA) emitió la siguiente declaración a favor de la solicitud del Presidente Obama de mil millones de dólares en su presupuesto para el año fiscal 2016 para invertir en iniciativas en Centro América: “Los problemas que afectan los países de El Salvador, Guatemala y Honduras van más allá de la pobreza y falta de oportunidad económica. También tienen que lidiar con la violencia extrema, corrupción incontrolada e instituciones gubernamentales débiles. Sin una estrategia coordinada por los Estados Unidos con la ayuda de otros países de la región y los países del “triángulo del norte,” el impacto en los Estados Unidos y la región será mucho más que refugiados en nuestra frontera. Convertirnos en un socio con liderazgo en la región beneficia nuestra seguridad nacional y económica. La solicitud del Presidente no es una carta blanca. La ayuda de los Estados Unidos será enfocada en: fortalecer instituciones gubernamentales y el estado de derecho, mejorar la seguridad comunitaria, atacar el crimen organizado y promover reformas económicas para estimular inversión privada y el crecimiento económico de la región. Nuestros esfuerzos también incluyen medidas para evaluar el impacto de los programas y asignación de recursos. El éxito de estas medidas depende de que los tres países tomen las riendas y demuestren la voluntad necesaria para enfrentar los cambios sistemáticos. Mientras el presupuesto del Presidente es considerado en el Congreso, les pido a mis colegas que apoyen sus esfuerzos y reconozcan los riesgos si negamos la ayuda. Por eso, en los próximos días me pondré en contacto con muchos de mis colegas para informarles de los problemas en la región y coordinar nuestros esfuerzos legislativos. El cambio será paulatino, pero es un esfuerzo necesario.” Nacida en Escuintla, Guatemala, la Congresista Torres representa el distrito 35 de California y es miembro del Comité de Seguridad Nacional en la Cámara de Representantes. ###
01.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna Gonzalez January 28, 2015 Phone: (202) 225-6161 REP. TORRES TO SERVE ON NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE, WATER AND INDIAN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEES WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Natural Resources Ranking Member Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) announced Rep. Norma J. Torres’s (D-CA) appointment to the Natural Resources Committee and the Subcommittees on Water, Power and Oceans and on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs. The Natural Resources Committee oversees issues related to American energy production, fisheries and wildlife, public lands, oceans, Native Americans, mining, and water irrigation and reclamation. “Whether it’s tourists visiting our mountains, coastlines, and national parks, our booming agriculture sector’s dependence on water to feed their crops, and the needs of all Californians to have clean water to drink and air to breathe, the work of the Natural Resources Committee is vital to my state,” said Rep. Torres. “California is also home to more Native Americans than any other state, so I hope to continue the work I started in the California legislature to defend the rights and ensure the well-being of our state’s tribal communities.” The Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans has jurisdiction over the nation’s water resources, including federal irrigation projects and interstate water issues. The Subcommittee on Indian, Insular and Alaska Native Affairs is responsible for matters regarding Native Americans, including land management and ownership, Indian healthcare, and the welfare of the 1.9 million American Indians, as well issues affecting the territories of American Samoa, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as well as the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. “With over 100 federally recognized tribes and our very livelihood dependent on access to water, serving on these subcommittees is an incredible honor and responsibility. Few states have more at stake,” Torres continued. “I look forward to being an advocate for the needs of Californians and to working to ensure the preservation and prosperity of our magnificent state.” ###
01.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 20, 2015 Contact: Anna González Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 REP. TORRES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), released the following statement in response to President Obama’s annual address to Congress on the state of the Union: “At a time when our economy is on the rebound, I applaud the President for taking action to help all Americans benefit from rising economic growth. My district was among the hardest hit by the recession and has yet to fully recover. Investments in job creation and infrastructure, relief for working families, and policies that make home ownership and education more affordable speak directly to the needs of California’s 35th District. We live in an economy where higher education is a necessity. I had the privilege of having local veteran and Chaffey College student Crystal Tettenhorst as my guest to the State of the Union. Crystal’s story reflects the realities of so many Inland Empire residents working to adapt to a changing economy, and as the President details his community college plan, she reminds us that an investment in education is an investment in our future. As a working mother, I also stand behind the President’s efforts to make middle class families’ paychecks go further and expand access to paid parental leave. No one should ever have to sacrifice their livelihood to care for a sick child or give birth. If every other industrialized nation can do it, so can we. While we deal with challenges at home, we also continue to face unprecedented dangers from abroad. There is no question the world is facing uncertain times. With threats to the very liberties this nation stands for, the United States must remain a leader in the fight against extremism. I was encouraged by the President’s insistence on “smart diplomacy,” because this fight will not be won on military might alone. It requires the guiding hand of diplomacy to truly succeed. As we begin to get to work in a new Congress, I hope we can move past the partisan jabs and give the President’s ideas their due consideration. Despite political differences, I firmly believe that all Members of Congress have the same goals at heart: the security and prosperity of all Americans.” ###
01.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna González January 13, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 TORRES STATEMENT ON HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING BILL WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), newly-appointed member of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement regarding the FY2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Act: “At a time when our national security faces unprecedented threats at home and abroad, playing politics with Department of Homeland Security funding is downright reckless. The amendments Republicans have proposed would tear apart millions of families, deport DREAMers and victims of domestic violence, force immigration officials to divert resources away from deporting felons and those who threaten our national security, and perpetuate a system that hurts American communities, businesses, and families. The President took action, because House Republicans wouldn’t. If Republicans were truly concerned about immigration, they would put forth their own ideas to fix our broken immigration system. Holding Homeland Security funds hostage, so they can voice their displeasure with the President’s actions, is not responsible governing. It’s time to put politics aside, pass a clean DHS funding bill, and work together to address the challenges facing our nation.” ###
01.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna Gonzalez January 9, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 NORMA TORRES APPOINTED TO COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi nominated Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) to serve on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “The issues that come before the Homeland Security Committee are of critical importance to my state and my district. A destination for tourists and domestic and international commerce, California relies on our ability to ensure our nation’s transportation, border, and cyber security,” said Torres. “The 35th district is home to Ontario International Airport and serves as an inland port through which goods from the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach are transported to the rest of the country. Protecting our nation’s infrastructure and ensuring the effective implementation of security regulations are vital to the region’s economy. As Congress wrestles with addressing our broken immigration system, we also cannot afford to forget that protecting our borders goes hand-in-hand with reforming our immigration laws to reflect the realities of the 21st century. Between the recent terrorist attack in France, bombing of the NAACP office in Colorado Springs, and Sony’s cyber-attack, we are constantly reminded of this committee’s important work and of the critical need to adequately fund and equip the Department of Homeland Security,” Torres continued. “My service on the Homeland Security Committee is a humbling responsibility, and I look forward to working with my new colleagues to ensure we are prepared to tackle the unprecedented challenges facing our nation.” The full Democratic Caucus will vote on the Leader’s nominations next week, while the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee will meet again in the coming weeks to recommend additional committee assignments. ###
01.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Anna Gonzalez January 6, 2015 Phone: (202) 225 - 6161 NORMA TORRES SWORN-IN AS A NEW MEMBER OF THE 114TH CONGRESS WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA) was officially sworn-in as U.S. Representative for California’s 35th district. “It is an honor and a privilege to serve in the United States Congress,” Torres stated. “I am humbled by the opportunity to represent the residents of California’s 35th district and am ready to get to work on their behalf. The problems facing the Inland Empire are no different than those most Americans face: keeping a roof over their heads, putting their kids through college, affording quality healthcare, and finding a good-paying job,” Torres continued. “I am committed to doing my part to break the gridlock by working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move our nation forward and do what is right for the voters who sent us here.” Rep. Torres was elected to Congress on November 4, 2014 and succeeds former Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod. ###
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
