02.14.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the House passage of the FY19 Appropriations package, which prevents another senseless Trump Shutdown: “I am pleased that we were able to work in a bipartisan way to fund the remainder of the federal government for the rest of the fiscal year. While this is not the agreement I would have written, it does, reflect the true spirit of compromise and the best possible deal to responsibly fund our government and secure our border. “This deal to keep government open secured major victories on our key Democratic priorities. It denies President Trump the billions of dollars he demanded for a wasteful and ineffective border wall, places a check on his out-of-control deportation policy, funds a more humane immigration system, and provides resources for smart, effective border security. “The government funding deal, which includes seven appropriations bills rejected President Trump’s deep budget cuts and instead make bold investments in top priorities, which will have a positive effect on my constituents in Illinois’ 1st Congressional District. This agreement will give a 1.9 percent pay raise to federal civilian workers, provide $3 billion for state and local law enforcement to keep communities safe, address the opioid crisis, and rebuild America’s infrastructure, which will bring in nearly $100 million in additional highway funding for Illinois. “The last Trump Shutdown cost our economy billions and federal workers are still recovering, which is why I support this deal and urge the President to sign it immediately. Our country cannot endure another reckless shutdown." ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) reintroduced, the “Data Accountability and Trust Act” (DATA). DATA would require the Federal Trade Commission to issue regulations requiring companies that own or possess data containing personal information to establish specified security policies and procedures to treat and protect such information. “Throughout 2018, Americans were inundated with a succession of stories of data breaches. These stories seemed to take place nearly every week, which worked to quickly erode users’ trust. Over 100 million people were affected by breaches from some of the largest companies in the world. Instead of working swiftly to alert their users, many tech corporations worked to deliberately withhold information regarding data breaches and misled not only their users, but their employees,” said Rush. This legislation would require notification within 30 days following a breach and clarifies that the unauthorized acquisition, access, sale, or use of data constitutes a breach. “We know that data breaches occur for many reasons, but no American should have to experience data breaches that were caused by corporate negligence or because their personal information was exploited or sold to third parties without their clear consent, as they did last year. It is past time for tech companies to be held accountable for their reckless and dishonest behavior, and now more than ever, we need robust and aggressive federal data privacy and data protection rules.” ###
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman John Dingell: “John Dingell was a political force, legislative titan, and all around powerhouse. He dedicated his life to this country and served our nation with dignity, integrity, and fortitude. He was the definition of a great American leader. Our nation is better today because of his fierce advocacy to protect our environment and improve and increase access to health care. There will never be another public servant as influential as the Dean of the House. As the longest-serving Member of Congress, his legislative legacy is unmatched and unparalleled and his passing will leave a deep void in this country. My condolences to Rep. Debbie Dingell and their family, friends, and the residents of Michigan that he fought everyday in his illustrious career to proudly represent.” ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray calling for an immediate and sweeping civil rights investigation into the racist and homophobic attack on Jussie Smollett. “This is a hate crime plain and simple and I will not stand by while evil acts are inflicted on any citizen, especially not in my hometown. Jussie Smollett has brought pride to Chicago and made our great city his second home with his trailblazing portrayal of Jamal Lyon on the Fox series ‘Empire’. I am even more disturbed by the manner in which this crime was carried out, particularly at the media reports of the attempted lynching, which harkens back to some of the darkest days in our history. I thank the Chicago Police Department and FBI for their swift action and thorough investigation. I also call on my colleagues to support my antilynching legislation that will ensure perpetrators receive an enhanced sentence under hate crimes statutes,” said Rush. A copy of the letter is available here and included below: January 30, 2019 The Honorable Christopher Wray Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20535-0001 Dear Director Wray: I am writing you today with a deep sense of disappointment. As you are aware, yesterday, in my hometown of Chicago, Illinois, a young African-American man, Jussie Smollett, was — as reported by multiple media sources — attacked with racist and homophobic slurs before he was brutally beaten, doused in an unknown chemical, and had a rope wrapped around his neck. I am certain that you would agree that this kind of evil behavior has no place in our society. Therefore, I was heartened to hear that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is assisting with the investigation into this vicious attack and I applaud you and your agents for your diligence and hard work as you assist in bringing the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice. As you are aware, crimes of this nature strike fear at the very core of a community and have a long-lasting impact on its members. They are, therefore, rightfully characterized as hate crimes. That the perpetrators in this attack are reported to have wrapped a rope around the victim’s neck is jarring, to say the least, and a surprise to many people who believe that lynching has been relegated to the annals of our history. As we have seen too often in recent years, this is not the case. That is why I have introduced legislation — H.R. 35, the Emmett Till Antilynching Act — that rightfully classifies lynchings as hate crimes. Therefore, let me once again thank you and the FBI for your expediency in seeking answers to this crime. My staff and I stand ready to assist in any way we can so, should you require it, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Bobby L. Rush Member of Congress ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) signed a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos and Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker on the Trump administration’s decision to rescind Obama-era guidance on school discipline. The guidance was issued to assist schools with administering school discipline policies without discrimination on the basis of race, color and national origin. The Trump administration rescinded the guidance in December. In their letter, the 65 members demand a written response from the two administration officials on steps they are taking to fully enforce civil rights laws, and how they are informing schools about their obligations under federal civil rights laws with respect to school discipline. “This guidance was issued in 2014 to assist school districts, law enforcement agencies, and other recipients of federal financial assistance in understanding their obligations under Title VI and its implementing regulations and, in doing so, ensure students receive a safe, equitable, and high-quality education,” the members wrote. “Prompted by mounting evidence and research consensus that students of color face harsher discipline penalties for similarly-situated offenses than their white peers, the guidance you rescinded addressed the application of both regulatory provisions to these practices while maintaining school safety and improving school climate,” the members added. “We are concerned that rescission of the guidance reflects a lack of commitment on the part of the Departments to fully enforce federal civil rights law that is intended to ensure that students are not discriminated against because of their race, color, or national origin,” the members continued. “Regardless of the Departments’ recent rescission or future plans to reregulate, the current regulations obligate the Departments to enforce against both intentionally discriminatory policies and practices and those that have a discriminatory effect.” The letter was signed by Senators Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Bob Casey (D-Pa.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), and U.S. Representatives Donald McEachin (D-Va.), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Nanette Barragan (D-Calif.), Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), Jennifer Wexton (D-Va.), Jim Himes (D-Conn.), Jahana Hayes (D-Conn.), Mark Pocan (D-Wis.), Darren Soto (D-Fla.), Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), Adriano Espaillat (D-N.Y.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.), Andre Carson (D-Ind.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Bobby Rush (D-Ill.), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Tony Cardenas (D-Calif.), Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), John Garamendi (D-Calif.), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-N.Y.), David Cicilline (D-R.I.), Alma Adams (D-N.C.), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), Anthony Brown (D-Md.), Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.), and Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.). A copy of the letter is availablehere and included below: Dear Secretary DeVos and Acting Attorney General Whitaker: We write to express grave concern over the action of the U.S. Departments of Education and Justice (“the Departments”) to rescind the Dear Colleague Letter on the Nondiscriminatory Administration of School Discipline and other related documents (“guidance”), and to request information concerning the Administration’s efforts to fully enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI) following this misguided rescission. This guidance was issued in 2014 to assist school districts, law enforcement agencies, and other recipients of federal financial assistance in understanding their obligations under Title VI and its implementing regulations and, in doing so, ensure students receive a safe, equitable, and high-quality education. Because rescission of the guidance does not change a school district’s legal obligation under the law, your action has frustrated the ability of districts to fully understand their federal civil rights obligations. As applied to schools, Title VI requires discipline policies to be developed and administered in a manner that does not discriminate against students on the basis of race, color, or national origin and that does not “have the effect of subjecting individuals to discrimination” or “the effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the program as respect individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin.”[1] Prompted by mounting evidence and research consensus that students of color face harsher discipline penalties for similarly-situated offenses than their white peers, the guidance you rescinded addressed the application of both regulatory provisions to these practices while maintaining school safety and improving school climate. [2], [3] We are concerned that rescission of the guidance reflects a lack of commitment on the part of the Departments to fully enforce federal civil rights law that is intended to ensure that students are not discriminated against because of their race, color, or national origin. Our concern was heightened when we saw that the Question and Answer document issued by the Department of Education concurrently with rescission of the guidance addressed the obligation of schools not to intentionally discriminate, but made no mention of their obligations to not have the effect of unlawful discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin. Moreover, news reports suggest the Department’s intent to rescind key regulatory requirements that prohibit federally funded programs from using methods of administration that have the effect of discriminating or denying equal benefit on the basis of race, color, or national origin.[4] Regardless of the Departments’ recent rescission or future plans to reregulate, the current regulations obligate the Departments to enforce against both intentionally discriminatory policies and practices and those that have a discriminatory effect. As such, we expect the Departments to fully enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the implementing regulations as directed by Congress. To assure Congress of the Administration’s intent to fulfill its enforcement obligation under federal civil rights law in this area, we request written responses to the questions below no later than February 13, 2019: How are your Departments enforcing federal civil rights laws, including 34 C.F.R. § 100.3(b)(2) and the effects test contained therein, in the administration of school discipline? How are your Departments informing schools of their obligations under federal civil rights law, including 34 C.F.R. § 100.3(b)(2) and the effects test contained therein, regarding the administration of school discipline? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. ### [1] See 34 C.F.R. § 100.3(b)(1) to (2). [2] Government Accountability Office. (2018). Discipline Disparities for Black Students, Boys, and Students with Disabilities (GAO-18-25). https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-18-258 [3] Russell J. Skiba and Natasha T. Williams. “Are Black Kids Worse? Myths and Facts About Racial Differences in Behavior: A Summary of the Literature,” The Equity Project at Indiana University, March 2014, http://www.indiana.edu/~atlantic/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/African-American-Differential-Behavior_031214.pdf [4] Laura Meckler and Devil Barrett, “Trump’s Administration Considers Rollback of Anti-Discrimination Rules,” Washington Post, January 3, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/trump-administration-considers-rollback-of-anti-discrimination-rules/2019/01/02/f96347ea-046d-11e9-b5df-5d3874f1ac36_story.html?utm_term=.a6d9ff197eeb
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, Energy Subcommittee Chairman Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.) released the following statement today blasting the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s (NRC) final rule intended to implement safety lessons learned from the 2011 accident at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi plant. “We are extremely disappointed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s action today. A number of critical safety measures that would have required plants to prepare for the potential impacts of seismic and flooding hazards were excluded from this final rule. It is dangerous to leave out the most important enhanced safety measures. As the Energy and Commerce Committee embarks on its oversight of NRC this Congress, we will have questions for the Commission as to why it chose to abandon the most important provisions of this rule.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted for a new bipartisan package to re-open government and provide $1.6 billion for key border security initiatives. The bipartisan package is based on legislation previously negotiated between the Republican-led House and Senate last year, prior to the Trump Shutdown. “President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have led America into day 33 of a senseless and reckless shutdown, which is singlehandedly endangering our national security and threatening our economy. Today’s legislation will be the 10th time House Democrats have voted for a bill to re-open the government since taking control of the House earlier this year. President Trump and Congressional Republicans should stop holding American families and our economy hostage over a wasteful and ineffective wall he said Mexico would pay for. It is disgraceful that the President is more focused on delivering his State of the Union address than delivering paychecks to the 800,000 federal workers who are not receiving pay and who are set to miss yet another paycheck,” said Rush. The package includes $1.6 billion in key border security-related measures, such as: $524.2 million for improvements in ports of entry: The Financial Services and General Government section includes $524.2 million for investments in ports of entry, in order to meet the latest security requirements, improve border security, and increase capacity for vehicular traffic. $563.4 million for additional immigration judges: The Commerce–Justice–Science section in the package includes $563.4 million to accelerate the recruitment and hiring of additional immigration judges, in order to address the backlog in processing immigration cases. $527 million for assistance to Central America: The State–Foreign Operations–Related Programs section includes $527 million for assistance to Central America, a critical investment in addressing conditions in Central American countries that many migrants are fleeing from. This package fully funds all agencies except Homeland Security through September 30, 2019. It also includes language ensuring federal employees who are working without pay or who have been furloughed receive back pay.
01.18.2019	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the sentencing of Jason Van Dyke: “Jason Van Dyke’s sentence is preposterous and makes a mockery out of the criminal justice system. It is truly outrageous that this convicted murderer has only been sentenced to 6 years and 9 months for taking the life of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald. This is a devastating blow to those who are yearning for justice and accountability. This is an insult to the thousands of African-American men who are wasting away in prisons and jails — convicted of crimes that do not come close to cold-blooded murder. This is not justice.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), the newly elected Chairman of the House Energy Subcommittee released the following statement after meeting with Department of Energy Secretary Rick Perry to discuss priorities and goals for the 116th Congress: “Among the host of issues that were discussed included a conversation on how to increase supplier diversity throughout the agency as well as the 17 national laboratories, including increasing opportunities for minority contractors and vendors doing business with the Department of Energy. We also discussed STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) education, increasing agency support for minority–serving institutions, and workforce and employment initiatives, each of which will be central themes throughout the current session of Congress within the Energy Subcommittee. I look forward to continuing our conversation and working on the initiatives that were discussed.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after Democratic Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted to elect him Chair of the Energy Subcommittee: “I am excited to once again serve on such a critical subcommittee, and particularly excited to be the Chairman. I am truly grateful to my colleagues for electing me to lead the fight in defending our core Democratic principles. I intend to protect consumers, address climate change, and ensure that we are investing in infrastructure and our energy workforce. As Chairman, I will stand up for marginalized communities and work every day to ensure that a modern energy workforce represents all Americans. I will hold public officials accountable at agencies that fall under the jurisdiction of the Energy Subcommittee. No longer will this committee allow members of the Trump Administration and big corporations to enrich themselves at the expense of the American people.”
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, President Trump and Congressional Republicans have led America into Day 26 of the Trump Shutdown. There is no reason to keep government shut down over the demands for an ineffective and wasteful wall. The Democratic House Majority has brought forth seven pieces of legislation to open government. “It is outlandish that Republicans have left American families wondering how they will cover their basic costs of living, things like food, housing, and fuel. Enough is enough. Democrats have voted multiple times to re-open government and fight for the 800,000 Americans who have either been furloughed or are working without pay. Republicans leaders lack the will and empathy as they continue to sit by as and put hardworking Americans in truly dire situations,” said Rush. “There are 7,471 federal workers and their families in Illinois who are affected by the reckless and unnecessary Trump Shutdown. These are our relatives, friends, and neighbors and it is unbelievable to see the damage President Trump and Congressional Republicans are doing to communities across Illinois.” Since day one of 116th Congress, Representative Rush has voted to open the government and fund key agencies seven times: January 15: Rush voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through February 1, 2019. January 11: Rush voted to fund the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Interior. January 10: Rush voted to fund the Departments of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other key agencies. January 10: Rush voted to fund the Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration. January 9: Rush voted to fund the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. January 3: Rush voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security through February 8, 2019. January 3: Rush voted for a package of six appropriations bills that were all previously passed by the Senate with unanimous or overwhelmingly bipartisan support. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement announcing he will not vote for a resolution of disapproval of Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) and will continue his push for censure: “While I strongly condemn white supremacy and white nationalism, my position remains unchanged. Anything short of censure is shallow. Steve King has made a career of making racist statements. That is the only thing he is known for and this pattern of rabid racism must be confronted head on by the House of Representatives. This resolution just restates the obvious. It does not address Steve King’s violent, vitriolic, and rabid racism. This Democratic resolution is an insult to the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. as we recognize his birthday. We must proceed with a vote to censure him with the same zeal that the House used when censuring Charlie Rangel. Yesterday, the notice I provided of my privileged resolution to formally censure the Member from Iowa, started the clock for a floor vote to punish him for his bigotry and racism. We need to be clear to the American people that we use condemnation to express our disapproval of those not in the House. We use censure for those in the House, Steve King is a sitting member.” ###
01.14.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement announcing that he will be introducing a resolution to formally censure U.S. Representative Steve King (R-Iowa) for his pattern of racist and xenophobic statements: “Steve King’s pattern of despicable comments harken back to the dark days of American history where his rabid, racist remarks would have been acceptable to a significant portion of our nation. This must come to a screeching halt right now. The U.S. Congress cannot be a platform for Steve King and those of his ilk. From Charleston to Charlottesville to Chicago to California, there is no home for this behavior, especially the floor of the United States House of Representatives. “He has become too comfortable with proudly insulting, disrespecting, and denigrating people of color. As with any animal that is rabid, Steve King should be set aside and isolated. His rabid racism continues to stain and embarrass this body and the years of deliberate silence from Republicans have only emboldened his ignorant and immoral behavior and empowered those who emulate him. “Republicans, in the interest of political expediency, sought his endorsement, ignored his racist remarks, and continued to elevate him to positions of influence. Only now that his behavior is well known to those outside the beltway and tainted him politically, do they vigorously denounce him. Knowing this, no reasonable person should take their tweets, statements, and op-eds seriously. I call on Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy to withhold from Steve King the privilege of serving on any committee until he apologizes for his racism. “My resolution to censure Representative King sends a clear message to the American people — this Congress will not turn a blind eye to his repugnant and racist behavior. Anything short of censure would be shallow. Text of resolution subject to change: ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced the inclusion of “The Rush Doctrine” into the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s oversight plan. This simple, consistent, and comprehensive policy will provide oversight to all agencies under the Committee’s jurisdiction to promote policies of diversity and inclusion to ensure that these federally-funded agencies are representative of the nation and are working to support the interests of all communities and all segments of the overall population. In a year where the 116th Congress made history as the most diverse in U.S. history, the Rush Doctrine will continue to ensure that Democrats stand firm in defending fundamental values and speaking out against policies that would harm marginalized communities. The doctrine has been endorsed by Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.). In a letter to Democratic Colleagues, Rush said, “By applying the Rush Doctrine to all of the work that each Subcommittee conducts, as well as the work of the full Committee, we Democrats will promote diversity and inclusion policies in each and every opportunity that presents itself. Under the strong leadership of Chairman Pallone, our Committee will actively pursue policies that benefit all communities.” Rush is the second-highest ranking Democrat on the full Energy and Commerce Committee and expects to be elected Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, a committee he has been the Ranking Member of for the past eight years The letter continued, “Through this unified effort, the Energy and Commerce Committee can help push the entire Congress to pursue an agenda that will promote and protect the interests of all Americans regardless of their wealth, status, gender, or ethnic background.” The full text of the letter is below: January 11, 2019 Dear Colleague: I am writing to welcome you to the Energy and Commerce Committee for the 116th Congress. If you are a returning Member, then I would like to welcome you back, and if you are newly-appointed I would like to welcome you to what I consider to be the most influential and consequential Committee in all of Congress. As you know, the Energy and Commerce Committee holds vast jurisdiction over a wide swath of critical issues that impact the daily lives of every American family. From Energy and Environmental policy to Healthcare, Consumer Protections, Telecommunications, and Oversight issues, our Committee plays a crucial role in enacting policy that touches every aspect of American life, and most of this work is conducted on the critical Subcommittee level. As most of you know, I will be running to chair the Energy Subcommittee, of which I have served as Ranking Member over the last four Congresses. As Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, and as the second highest ranking Democrat on the Committee, only behind Chairman Pallone, it is extremely important that the work that we do focuses on promoting and protecting the interests of every citizen. As such, I would like to share with you a set of principles that I call the Rush Doctrine, which encompasses much of the work that I have been engaged in throughout the length of my Congressional career, spanning over two decades. The Rush Doctrine, which Chairman Pallone has also endorsed, simply states that: The Committee will provide oversight over all agencies under its jurisdiction to promote policies of diversity and inclusion in order to ensure that these federally-funded agencies are representative of the nation as a whole and are working to support the interests of all communities and all segments of the overall population. As a practical matter, by applying the Rush Doctrine to all of the work that each Subcommittee conducts, as well as the work of the full Committee, we Democrats will promote diversity and inclusion policies in each and every opportunity that presents itself. Under the strong leadership of Chairman Pallone, our Committee will actively pursue policies that benefit all communities and all segments of the population, including specifically, minorities, women, and veterans. In addition to holding federal agencies accountable, this doctrine should also be applied to each and every corporation, association, or organization that comes before the Committee as a means to pursue diversity and inclusion policies that will permeate through all actions of the Committee. This strategy may take the form of questions for witnesses (agency and industry), amendments, legislation, initiatives, and general consistent talking points. As someone whose office has extensive experience in this area, I will eagerly work with any and all Members who would like to collaborate and coordinate in pursuing this cohesive strategy. While this principle is simple to understand, it is also consistent with the values that I have demonstrated throughout my lifetime of public service, as well as with the core values of the Democratic Party. It is a comprehensive strategy that will help reach the constituents that I represent on the Southside of Chicago, as well as the very same communities across the nation who are responsible for putting Democrats back in control of Congress. Through this unified effort, the Energy and Commerce Committee can help push the entire Congress to pursue an agenda that will promote and protect the interests of all Americans regardless of their wealth, status, gender, or ethnic background. Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to serving you all. Sincerely, Bobby L. Rush Member of Congress ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted to pass legislation to fund the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) appropriations bill to re-open these essential government agencies. This bill will ensure that vulnerable Illinois families receive critical SNAP benefits, the FDA and USDA can continue food inspections and prevent public health epidemics, and safeguard a strong, robust farmer safety net that provides certainty to our economy. “Farmers in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois are having a hard-enough time as it is and the last thing they needed was the unnecessary and reckless Trump Shutdown. We need to get things up and running again to minimize the long-term consequences. If Trump and Congressional Republicans do not join House Democrats in reopening government, there are putting 2,042,306 Illinois residents in the crosshairs of going hungry because they will not have the critical nutrition assistance they need,” said Rush. The Trump Shutdown is endangering federal food assistance programs — including WIC, school breakfast and lunch programs, The Emergency Food Assistance Program (which funds food banks and food pantries), and SNAP (our nation’s leading anti-hunger program) — that ensure that millions of low-income Americans, including pregnant women, children, seniors, people with disabilities, college students and veterans, don’t go hungry. “In addition to jeopardizing food assistance for millions of families in Illinois and across the nation, President Trump is directly threatening the health of countless communities because the FDA cannot accept any regulatory submissions and cannot support many routine regulatory and compliance activities, such as performing food safety inspections. The Trump Shutdown is putting the food we eat at risk and it is clear by his erratic and childish actions that he doesn’t seem to care,” said Rush. On Day One, House Democrats passed a complete funding package with Senate Republicans’ language to re-open government and secure our borders. Despite decisive action, Senator Majority Leader Mitch McConnell refuses to even bring those bills up for a vote. Over the coming days, House Democrats will again act to re-open all government agencies by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills to meet the critical needs of families across the nation. “House Democrats support smart, effective border security solutions such as new technology to scan for drugs and detect unauthorized crossings, better infrastructure at ports of entry, and more personnel. But we do not support wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on a border wall that the president repeatedly said Mexico would pay for. Whether the wall is made of concrete, steel, or papier-mâché, wasting five billion dollars because of a presidential tantrum is a nonstarter. 7,471 federal workers in Illinois are currently going without pay and they should not be held hostage by the demands of an incompetent President,” said Rush ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Tim Walberg (R-Mich.) introduced H.R. 362, the Energy Emergency Leadership Act. This bipartisan piece of legislation passed the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in the 115th Congress with overwhelming support from Members on both sides of the aisle. This legislation would amend the Department of Energy Organization Act to require the Secretary of the Department of Energy to assign energy emergency and energy security functions to an Assistant Secretary, including responsibilities with respect to infrastructure and cybersecurity. “I want to thank Rep. Walberg for his leadership on this issue, we are committed to working in a bipartisan way to address the critical concerns facing our nation. This legislation will go a long way in helping to protect the nation’s electric infrastructure from hackers who would attempt to disrupt our energy grid and cause untold harm to our economy, our daily lives, and to our overall national security. While we have not yet seen widespread outages due to cyber-attacks on our electric grid, it is imperative that we take proactive steps to mitigate the risk of these types of attacks, to the maximum extent possible and Energy Emergency Leadership Act will help in achieving that objective, said Rush. The Department of Energy’s emergency functions have long been oriented around oil supply shocks, despite new threats, and are not clearly identified as core functions, which can be problematic for department leadership, management, and coordination on these issues, especially with increasing cybersecurity threats. This legislation would help elevate energy emergency and cybersecurity responsibilities as a core function for the Department. “I’m pleased to work with Chairman Rush on these bipartisan reforms to strengthen America’s cyber defense and emergency response capabilities in the energy sector,” said Walberg. “In the digital age, protecting our nation’s electric infrastructure is more important than ever. Our legislation recognizes the importance of cybersecurity and modernizes the Department of Energy to more effectively respond to these 21st century realities.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON —Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced H.R.366, the Insulin Access for All Act of 2019. This bill, cosponsored by 33 members of the House Democratic Caucus, eliminates the cost sharing requirement under Medicare and Medicaid for insulin. “This bill, introduced with significant cosponsors, addresses the appalling issue plaguing Americans who have one of the most devastating and debilitating diseases of modern times — diabetes. There are many who simply cannot afford the insulin they need to live longer, active, and productive lives. This legislation tackles that issue head on and ensures that those suffering from diabetes no longer have to pay out-of-pocket costs for insulin. No American should go without life-sustaining medication,” said Rush. This legislation was inspired by countless stories like that of Alec Raeshawn Smith, age 26, who died because he was forced to ration his insulin after he aged out of his parents’ insurance coverage. Stories like this are further proof that we must do something to lower prescription drug costs. “I am pleased to see that House Democrats’ agenda includes work on this vital and life-saving issue for the people,” said Rush. A study by The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology journal predicts that by 2030, 79 million adults with type 2 diabetes are expected to need insulin to manage their condition and if current levels of access remain, only half of them will be able to be able to get an adequate supply. Members cosponsoring this legislation include Representatives Alma Adams (N.C.), Karen Bass (Calif.), Joyce Beatty (Ohio), Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (Ga.), Anthony Brown (Md.), G.K. Butterfield (N.C.), André Carson (Ind.), Yvette D. Clarke (N.Y.), William “Lacy” Clay Jr. (Mo.), James E. Clyburn (S.C.), Danny K. Davis (Ill.), Val Demings (Fla.), Dwight Evans (Pa.), Marcia L. Fudge (Ohio), Steven Horsford (Nev.), Sheila Jackson Lee (Texas), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. (Ga.), Robin Kelly (Ill.), Al Lawson (Fla.), Barbara Lee (Calif.), John Lewis (Ga.), A. Donald McEachin (Va.), Donald Payne Jr. (N.J.), Stacey Plaskett (Virgin Islands), Ayanna Pressley (Mass.), Cedric Richmond (La.), Jan Schakowsky (Ill.), David Scott (Ga.), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (Va.), Terri A. Sewell (Ala.), Bennie G. Thompson (Miss.), Bonnie Watson Coleman (N.J.), Frederica Wilson (Fla.) ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) joined 128 House Democrats in a letter led by U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) to United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Purdue demanding specifics on how the Department will address impending benefit reductions for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) caused by President Trump’s government shutdown. Without additional funding, Secretary Purdue is required by law to instruct SNAP state agencies on how to ration available funding among SNAP recipients. SNAP helps feed more than 38 million of our nation’s most vulnerable people, including millions of children, low-income military veterans, and seniors. Yet, inadequate funding could lead to severe, immediate benefit cuts for the month of February and beyond. “President Trump continues to hold our government hostage over an ineffective and expensive wall and his irresponsible and incompetent actions are causing uncertainty and stress for hundreds of thousands of hard-working Americans. Last week, he said that he would be happy to keep the government shut down for “years.” Millions of hungry children, veterans, and seniors cannot go days — let alone years — without receiving the assistance they desperately need. In Illinois, 2,042,306 people will lose SNAP benefits if the Trump Shutdown continues. It is completely immoral that this President would hold SNAP, our nation’s leading anti-hunger program, hostage. He must come to his senses and re-open government immediately,” said Rush. Below is the full text of the letter: The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary United States Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: We write seeking information about the Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) plans to address the current government shutdown’s negative impact on food and nutrition assistance for millions of working Americans and their families. Our nation’s largest and most effective anti-hunger safety net, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), will be severely impacted by a continued lapse in government funding. Currently, SNAP serves more than 38 million of our most vulnerable people, including millions of children, low-income military veterans, and seniors. Under USDA’s present interpretation of the authorizing statute, SNAP must receive an annual appropriation from Congress in order to meet the needs of the program’s recipients. Such funding for SNAP benefits has not been allocated beyond the end of this month. Because of this, a continuation of the government shutdown would cripple the program and prevent millions of people from accessing basic food assistance. While Congress provided $3 billion worth of reserve funding for SNAP in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, estimations based on program participation suggest this amount would fail to provide all recipients with full benefits even for the month of February. In this scenario, where federal funds are unable to cover full benefit costs, the law requires USDA to instruct SNAP state agencies on how to ration available funding among SNAP recipients. To date, it remains unclear how such benefit reductions will be carried out. The government shutdown has also restricted the way USDA administers the program. According to the Department’s website, 95% of staff within the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) have been furloughed. Among other responsibilities, FNS is tasked with approving applications from retailers seeking authorization to accept SNAP payments. Several media reports indicate that FNS is not processing retailer applications nor providing technical assistance to store owners. This ever-worsening problem is exacerbating hunger in many rural and other disadvantaged areas. Given the drastic impact this current situation will have on hunger in America, we ask for an immediate response to the following questions: What are USDA’s specific plans for administering SNAP after January 2019? Without further appropriations, how will USDA instruct SNAP state agencies to reduce SNAP benefits for the month of February and beyond? What methods will be used to determine benefit reductions on a per recipient basis? Are any SNAP retailer applications currently being processed? If not, when was the last application processed? How many submitted applications have yet to be processed? USDA guidance was sent to SNAP state agencies and SNAP authorized retailers on December 26 and December 31, respectively. These guidance documents only address January benefits. Has USDA sent any additional guidance to either group? If not, what is the timeline for sending additional guidance? Has USDA sent any guidance to SNAP recipients regarding the current situation, as the Department has previously done in similar scenarios? If not, what is the USDA’s explanation for not doing so? When will updated guidance be available to SNAP recipients? Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), today applauded the U.S. Senate for confirming Geoffrey Starks as a Commissioner to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): “We congratulate Geoffrey Starks on his confirmation to assume the office of Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. Commissioner Starks is well known for his expertise, professionalism, and dedication. As members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we are confident that Commissioner Starks will be a strong voice in ensuring that our communications networks and technologies serve the needs of communities of color and improve the lives of all Americans. We thank Senator Schumer for favorably considering our recommendation of this distinguished American.” Background: The Federal Communications Commission is comprised of five commissioners, each of whom serve five-year terms, and are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. U.S. law requires a 3-2 split in which there are three commissioners from the majority party and two commissioners from the minority party. Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel currently fills the other Democratic seat on the Commission. With his confirmation to the FCC, Commissioner Starks is the only Black member of the five-seat commission, after the retirement of former Commissioner Mignon Clyburn in 2018. On March 7, 2018, the members sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urging him to recommend the nomination of Geoffrey Starks. The letter can be viewed here. Following the nomination of Starks, Rush, Butterfield and Clarke called on the U.S. Senate to confirm Starks without delay. ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted to swiftly reopen government. On opening day, the new House Democratic Majority has done what President Trump refused to do — end an unnecessary Trump Shutdown: “It is ridiculous that President Trump has dragged the country into the third government shutdown of his beleaguered and incompetent Administration. He has singlehandedly held hostage the paychecks of hard-working Americans and harmed our economy — all over an ineffective and expensive wall he repeatedly said Mexico would pay for. “Trump has recklessly and childishly used the government shutdown as a political weapon to pander to his base. He forced the shutdown because he didn’t like how the right-wing media characterized him and it has become clearer as each day has gone by that he doesn’t know how to get the country out of the mess he created. Democrats, though, have taken action because the President is incapable of and ineffectual at doing so. “The legislation that I voted in favor of today has already advanced in the Senate on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis and if Congressional Republicans refuse to support these bills, then they are in cahoots with this inept President. Funding the federal government is one of the most basic responsibilities of Congress. Democrats are prepared to get the job done for the American people and Congressional Republicans should join us.” ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON —Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) was sworn into the 116th Congress. On opening day, the new House Democratic Majority will move swiftly to deliver on a promise of lower health care costs, bigger paychecks, and restoring integrity in government. The American people have demanded a Congress that works for the people and one that will improve the lives of seniors, children, and hard-working Americans. “For too long, the American people have been confronted with an agenda that has harmed the futures of families and seniors, all to further enrich the wealthy and well-connected. House Democrats will deliver an ambitious, forward-looking, and positive agenda for the people,” said Rush. Following Rush’s swearing-in, he introduced five bills, highlighting his legislative priorities for his district and the nation:H.R. 33 (Gun Trafficking Prohibition Act): This bill amends the federal criminal code to establish trafficking in firearms and straw purchasing of firearms as criminal offenses and prohibits transferring a firearm knowing that it will be used to commit a violent crime or drug trafficking offense.H.R. 35 (Emmett Till Antilynching Act): This bill would amend the United States Code to specify that lynching is a crime in itself that its heinous nature warrants an enhanced sentence under hate crimes statutes.H.R. 41 (RESCUE Act for Black and Community Banks): This bill establishes within the Treasury Department’s Office of the Comptroller of the Currency an office to be known as the “Office of Black and Community Banks” and authorizes the Comptroller to provide them with the regulatory flexibility to encourage affordable small-dollar lending. The bill also establishes the “Minority Bank Deposit Program” to expand the use of minority banks, women’s banks, and low-income credit unions and requires federal agencies to develop plans to use these institutions, to the extent possible, for their banking needs.H.R. 45 (Barack Obama Highway Act): This bill would designate the portion of I-57 located in Illinois as “Barack Obama Highway”. I-57 is an interstate highway in Missouri and Illinois that, at a length of 386 miles, is the second longest two-digit Interstate Highway without an auxiliary route and remains the only expressway that transits the Chicagoland area that does not have a commonly used name.H.R. 55 (Connecting Broadband Deserts Act of 2019): This bill would require that the FCC determine if advanced telecommunications capabilities are being properly deployed in broadband deserts in a reasonable and timely fashion and if digital redlining is occurring. Digital redlining occurs when areas are systematically excluded from digital resources and advanced technology. Those most impacted areas by this occurrence are mostly low-income communities or areas with a high minority population. “I am grateful for the opportunity to continue serving the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and I am excited that under the new Democratic Majority, we have a chance to make meaningful strides that will help families across our district and nation achieve their American dream,” said Rush. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 695, the Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019: “The President of the United States lied to the American people when he campaigned on the farce that Mexico would pay for the wall. Now he is attempting to force taxpayers to fund his immoral, expensive, and ineffective border wall. House Republican Leadership should be embarrassed that they have caved to the demands of an incompetent, irrational, and ignorant President. Instead, they have pursued a process that will trigger a government shutdown by sending a radical bill back to the Senate that they know will not pass. House Republicans should not be allowed to hold our government hostage simply because they are afraid of what Fox News will say about their actions. History will judge these feckless Republicans who are steering our nation right into Trump’s Shutdown.” ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) called on Facebook’s Board of Directors to immediately terminate Founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg and any other executives who have been involved in the unprecedented level of negligence resulting in the data privacy breaches, brazen lies before Congress, and collusion with a hostile foreign power: “Enough is enough. Every morning, we seem to find another story detailing Facebook’s negligence and outright disregard for its users. Every story continues to further erode the trust between Facebook and the American people. The ongoing and expanding level of privacy infractions at Facebook is beyond comparison. This company and its executives have continued to deliberately take advantage of consumers and misuse their information. Last April, when Mark Zuckerberg testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I heard him emphatically and repeatedly tell us that the only time Facebook shares information about its users is when they consent to it. There is not a single Facebook user who knowingly consented to having their private messages read, edited, and even deleted. Based on the reporting we have seen this week, it is now clear to me that Mr. Zuckerberg knowingly lied to Congress. “The American people are tired of the excuses, the lies, and the deliberate evasion. It is utterly appalling that we are only presented with the truth when it has been exposed. Facebook is one of the world’s most innovative companies. It is highly implausible its leadership repeatedly fail to understand their own policies of consent and the ways in which their product has been — and continues to be — manipulated and weaponized. “Mark Zuckerberg sat in his Menlo Park office and watched a hostile foreign power interfere with our democracy, manipulate African-Americans with propaganda and lies, and, ultimately, suppress voter turnout. He no longer deserves the privilege of leading one of America’s great success stories. I am angered that his own greed and desire for tech dominance outweighed his responsibility to and the trust placed in him by his countless users. “It is time for new leadership at Facebook and it is time for Mark Zuckerberg to log out.” ###
12.17.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on today’s New York Times article detailing Russia’s targeted manipulation of African-Americans in the 2016 election: “Today’s troubling report underscores the point I raised at the House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing with Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg: Facebook can be — and has been — used to unethically and unfairly target individuals based on their perceived race. “It is appalling that Facebook, one of the world’s most groundbreaking companies, sat idly by while African-Americans were inundated with propaganda and lies by a hostile foreign power with the intent to suppress voter turnout. It is highly implausible that no one at Facebook noticed this was happening and that it didn’t ring alarm bells throughout their Menlo Park headquarters. This corporate blind spot further underscores the serious need for a more diverse workforce who would have been more likely to notice this alarming anomaly; it is not enough to have Black Lives Matters posters on the wall. “Facebook callously ignored the systematic and deliberate targeting of those who, according to the New York Times, ‘had shown interest in particular topics, including black history, the Black Panther Party and Malcolm X.’ Mark Zuckerberg failed his users and has continued to erode the trust of Americans because Facebook is more concerned with their bottom line instead of defending our democracy and vulnerable and historically-marginalized populations. Our country has a long and sordid history of suppressing the black vote — a brazen pattern we continue to see today — and Facebook has now joined the ranks of those who have furthered that repugnant cause. “Facebook and its subsidiaries must be held accountable for the egregious and negligent role they played in the 2016 election. This larger-than-life company has a moral responsibility to protect their users, not be a party to the erosion of our democracy or aid and abet hostile foreign actors.” ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks at the “Public Private Partnerships for Federal Energy Management” hearing: Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this markup today examining Public Private Partnerships for Federal Energy Management. "Mr. Chairman, like Members on both sides of the aisle, I fully support the objectives of both the Energy Savings Performance Contracts, or ESPCs, and the Utility Energy Service Contracts, or UESCs. "However, we must also take heed to the warning by both the Government Accounting Office and the Congressional Research Service, that a lack of consistency in reporting across agencies for projects makes it challenging to document the actual savings achieved solely from ESPCs or UESCs. "Mr. Chairman, ESPCs and UESCs allow the federal government, the nation’s largest energy consumer, to leverage public/private partnerships in order to improve energy efficiency and save taxpayer money, while also increasing the use of renewable energy in the nearly half a million facilities it maintains and supports. "ESPCs and UESCs consist of contracts between a federal agency and another third party, either an energy service company or a utility, to finance options that employ private sector resources and capabilities in order to facilitate investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy at federal facilities. "Through ESPCs, private contractors finance the upfront costs of efficiency updates, which may include modifications such as transformer upgrades, the installation of high-efficiency lighting, rainwater harvesting equipment, or heating, ventilation, and air conditioning improvements. "The contractor assumes the risks of the energy improvements and certifies that the upgrades will generate savings that cover the initial costs, and the agency pays a yearly amount for a fixed period of time. "Under the ESPC program, the Department of Energy (DOE) has awarded 400 projects, invested $6 billion in energy improvements, and saved an estimated $14 billion in cumulative energy costs since 1998. "In regards to UESCs, more than 1,800 projects have been reported with $3.3 billion leveraged through utility partnerships, since 2000. "Mr. Chairman, EPSCs are headed by the Department of Energy’s Federal Energy Management Program, or FEMP, which also provides training, guidance, and technical assistance to help federal agencies achieve their energy and water conservation objectives. "Based on FEMP data, ESPCs funded $5.7 billion, and UESCs funded $1.5 billion in energy efficiency improvements, between FY2005 and FY2017 alone. "Mr. Chairman, the data suggests that there has been an overall trend of declining energy and water use, and an increase in renewable energy consumption as a share of overall energy usage due to these programs. "However, I look forward to further engaging each of our witnesses on the implementation of the ESPCs and UESCs, as well as their recommendations on how best to address the lack of consistency in reporting across agencies for these types of projects in order to get a more accurate sense of the direct savings enjoyed from these programs. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time."
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), incoming Dean of the Illinois Delegation announced his support for Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House in the 116th Congress. In a letter to his Democratic Colleagues, Rush said, “Nancy Pelosi is a proven, skilled, and effective legislator who has demonstrated her wisdom and astute acumen in guiding our caucus and implementing a bold and dynamic Democratic agenda that lifts all Americans.” Rush stressed to House Democrats that “it would be a grave disappointment if Nancy Pelosi is not Speaker of the House in 2019. In a year where we saw a record-breaking number of women running for office and winning seats in Congress, it is imperative that we resist the cavalier and short-sighted effort to oust one of the most influential women in American history. Nancy Pelosi’s insight, fortitude, and strategic thinking is why House Democrats will be in the majority in the 116th Congress. She — and no one else — has earned our support to be Speaker.” The full text of the letter is below:
11.15.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after meeting with Target officials: “I remain outraged at Target following their refusal to reconsider their disappointing and bone-headed decision to close two stores on Chicago’s South Side and abandon the Morgan Park and Chatham neighborhoods. They have declared war on these communities as they plan to leave these neighborhoods. Target will leave a gaping hole in the quality of life of tens of thousands of 1st District residents. These communities are boiling mad and I found Target’s response to community leaders, residents, and me to be empty and noncommittal. We do not trust Target anymore. “Since Target has declared war on our communities we will respond in kind. I am calling on residents from across the city to join me on Black Friday at the Target in Chatham in a public protest against their disregard for the South Side of Chicago and their unwillingness to be a good corporate neighbor. Deserting the South Side is deserting all of Chicago.” ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), incoming Dean of the Illinois Delegation, introduced Representatives-elect Sean Casten (D-Ill.), Jesús “Chuy” García (D-Ill.), and Lauren Underwood (D-Ill.) to House Democrats in their caucus meeting: “I am excited about the new energy, ideas, perspective, and principled values these incoming Members will bring to the House of Representatives. They will, no doubt, make Illinois proud and help House Democrats achieve a bold agenda that benefits all Americans.” During the caucus meeting Rush touted each incoming Member’s accomplishments and shared the goals they seek to achieve in the 116th Congress. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee announced his desire to serve as Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee in the 116th Congress: In a letter to Democratic colleagues Rush said, “As the Chairman of such a critical subcommittee, I intend to continue to stand up for the underserved and underrepresented populations who need our support and protection, especially in a time of so much anxiety and uncertainty. One of my top priorities will include working on an infrastructure package for modernizing the electric grid and making it more resilient, as well as replacing aging natural gas pipelines and lead pipelines, which have been the cause of contaminated water in schools, homes, and businesses across the nation.” Rush has been the Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee for the past eight years. Throughout the last four Congresses he has worked with his colleagues to hold the line on behalf of American families against narrow-minded, industry-friendly, backwards-looking Republican policies. As Chairman, Rush would continue to support an agenda that promotes a 21st Century energy workforce that reflects the diversity of the nation, and highlights the economic benefits, as well as the positive national security implications, of addressing the issue of climate change. The full text of the letter is below: ###
11.06.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the results of the 2018 Midterm Elections: “The American people have spoken and clearly rejected Washington Republicans’ disastrous health care agenda, fear-mongering about immigrants, naked race-baiting, and efforts to enrich big corporations and the wealthiest one percent. Health care was a key factor in tonight’s results and Congressional Democrats are unified, committed, and ready to continue the fight to protect Americans’ health care. We will remain steadfast as we work to move our nation forward, enact a bold agenda for the people, and stabilize this ship. “I remain confident that, as Speaker, Nancy Pelosi will skillfully lead the caucus, support strenuous oversight of Trump Administration officials, and hold this President accountable. With Nancy Pelosi at the helm, House Democrats can hit the ground running. “Now that the election is over, we must remember that — first and foremost — we are all Americans who are here to represent the communities and neighborhoods across our districts. We must rededicate ourselves to why we all chose to come here: to work together to achieve long-lasting policy that will continue to benefit Americans for generations to come. I remain committed to working with my colleagues — on both sides of the aisle — on this worthy endeavor.” ###
11.05.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Phillip Jackson: “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of Phillip Jackson. I have always admired him and his commitment to improving our great city. He was the definition of a public citizen who singlehandedly made the Black Star Project the premier educational organization in Chicago. Philip worked tirelessly to further the educational opportunities for Chicago’s youth and fought every day for equitable opportunities. He leaves behind a rich legacy of impassioned leadership and moral clarity. “The loss of Phillip will be deeply felt all around Chicago. On behalf of my wife, Paulette, and the residents of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I extend my sincerest condolences to his family, friends, and admirers.” ###
11.05.2018	CHICAGO — On Thursday, November 8th at 6pm, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will hold a community meeting at New Covenant Missionary Baptist Church (754 East 77th Street) to address Target’s plan to close two of its stores on Chicago’s South Side and abandon the Morgan Park and Chatham neighborhoods. 1st Congressional District residents will be able to express their concerns and detail how they will be impacted by this disappointing decision. Participants will be able to share their ideas and provide feedback to community leaders on how to best encourage Target to reconsider its decision. Members of the press, please RSVP with Ryan.Johnson@mail.house.gov WHAT: Community meeting at New Covenant Missionary Baptist Church (754 East 77th Street) to address Target’s plan to close two of its stores on Chicago’s South Side. WHO: • U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush • Beverly Area Planning Association • Chatham Avalon Park Community Council • Chatham Business Association • Chesterfield Community Council • Elected Officials • Greater Chatham Alliance • Greater Chatham Initiative • Greater Grand Crossing Neighborhood Network • Park Manor Neighbors Community Council • Reunite Chatham • Target Customers • West Chesterfield Community Association WHEN: Thursday, November 8th at 6pm WHERE: New Covenant Missionary Baptist Church (754 East 77th Street, Chicago, Illinois) ###
11.01.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) delivered the following remarks at a press conference discussing Target’s plan to close two of its stores on Chicago’s South Side, which predominantly serve the African-American community. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today. "We are here to address how this multibillion dollar corporation has decided to abandon the South Side of Chicago. "Target’s plan to close two of its stores on Chicago’s South Side, which predominately serve the African-American community is unconscionable. "Both stores, located in the Chatham and Morgan Park communities, meet retail and grocery needs that are vital to the neighborhood residents who I represent. "By closing them, Target is leaving a gaping hole of retail services because the closest Target is five to six miles away. "This announcement is a shocking blow to the constituents of the 1st Congressional District, seniors who depend on Target for pharmacy needs, and an inconvenience to shoppers and employees who will now have to travel those additional miles for work and their retail needs. "Target is creating a hardship for so many residents who rely on retail options close to home. "According to Target, these stores are underperforming. "However, in speaking with community leadership, elected officials, and in my own personal experience, there is no empirical evidence to suggest these sites are underperforming. "In fact, it is quite the contrary. Residents described long lines and full parking lots, day and night, winter and summer, making their decision to close truly mystifying. "The Chatham and Morgan Park neighborhoods have very longstanding, strong community leadership and business associations that are eager to engage and capable of assisting Target’s management in addressing any existing business concerns. "These community leaders are deeply disappointed and dismayed that the decision to close these stores was made without any conversation or notification. "Therefore, I am calling on Target to postpone the closure date, meet with me and other community leaders and provide us with performance evaluation data for these stores. "I urge Target to seriously engage with the community, so we can we find a course of action that ultimately leaves these stores open. "Again, the closure date of February must be postponed. "Target cannot take our money during the holiday season and then pack up and leave." ###
10.31.2018	CHICAGO — On Thursday, November 1 at 10am, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill) will hold a press conference in the parking lot of Target (8560 S. Cottage Grove Ave.) to address how this multibillion dollar corporation has decided to abandon the South Side of Chicago. Target’s plan to close two of its stores on Chicago’s South Side, which predominately serve the African-American community, this coming February is unconscionable. The two stores in the Morgan Park and Chatham neighborhoods are beneficial to these communities, as they offer food and retail options and are considered anchor stores, which are used to drive business to smaller retailers. This announcement is a shocking blow to the constituents of the 1st Congressional District, seniors who depend on Target for pharmacy needs, and an inconvenience to shoppers and employees who will now have to travel additional miles for work and their retail needs. It should be noted that wealthy corporations, like Target, are reaping massive windfalls from the giveaways in the GOP tax scam for the rich and are on track to spend $1 trillion on dividends and stock buybacks from the windfall of the tax scam while shipping jobs overseas and simultaneously announcing tens of thousands of layoffs and store closures. That is why so many Americans see a country that only benefits big corporations and wonder where they fit in. Members of the press, please RSVP with Ryan.Johnson@mail.house.gov. WHAT: Press conference to discuss how Target has abandoned the South Side and call on their leaders to postpone the closure date, release store data, and work with the community on a solution that benefits all parties. “Target should immediately postpone their closure date. They cannot take our money around the holiday season and then pack up and leave,” said Rush. WHO: U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush Chatham Avalon Park Community Council Chatham Business Association Chesterfield Community Council Greater Chatham Alliance Greater Chatham Initiative Greater Grand Crossing Neighborhood Network Park Manor Neighbors Community Council Reunite Chatham West Chesterfield Community Association Beverly Area Planning Association Elected Officials Target Customers WHEN: Thursday, November 1 at 10am WHERE: Target located at 8560 S. Cottage Grove Ave. (Parking lot on the south side of the building next to The Children’s Place)
10.30.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s claims regarding the 14th Amendment: “It is downright astonishing that an elected official — let alone the President of the United States — is so devoid of reality that he thinks he can unilaterally rewrite the U.S. Constitution. “I am floored that this President would sit for an interview and inaccurately claim that he can sign an Executive Order undermining the 14th Amendment, the text of which clearly states that ‘All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.’ “This inflammatory statement comes on the heels of the President’s immigration junket, which aims to pander to his base with fearmongering, lies, and propaganda. If nothing else, the events of last week should remind everyone, especially elected leaders, to stop the divisive rhetoric that casts those different than us as ‘other’ or something to be feared. That is why I remain staunchly opposed to any legislative efforts of this nature. “America has had enough of his governmental gutter talk, which only serves to further inflame. Maybe he should use some ‘Executive Time’ to read the Constitution and reflect on the promise of what the United States and its people could — and should — be.” ###
10.26.2018	CHICAGO — As reported in Crain’s Chicago Business, today Illinois Democrats unveiled a new report outlining how the GOP Tax Scam hurts homeowners in every Congressional district in Illinois. The report, issued by the Democratic staff of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform at the request of Representatives Schakowsky and Kelly, outlines the disastrous impact that the new tax law is having on the approximately 1.7 million homeowners in Chicagoland. After releasing the report, Chicagoland Democrats released the following statements: “This report demonstrates how, yet again, Republicans are benefitting corporations and billionaires and leaving every day Americans to pick up their tab,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “Last month, Republicans pushed through another tax bill to make the temporary provisions in their first $2 trillion-dollar tax bill permanent. The Republican tax law provides $66.7 billion in tax breaks and giveaways to real estate developers while capping the state and local tax (SALT) deduction for homeowners at $10,000. In a state like Illinois, where homeowners already pay significantly more in property taxes, this provision will be disastrous. Republicans in Congress are making it even more difficult for working families to achieve the American dream, by weakening home ownership, which was once a staple of the American middle class. They have taken away the tax deductions that many Illinoisans rely in order to enrich the GOP donor class. The only winners from the GOP’s Tax Scam 2.0 are wealthy real estate developers, the super-rich, and corporate executives – the losers are middle class Americans and those who aspire to be middle class.” “When Illinois homeowners pay more in taxes, they can thank Congressional Republicans, especially Pete Roskam who authored the legislation,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly. “Instead of crafting a plan that provides relief for working and middle-class Illinois families, Congressional Republicans passed a tax scam that gives more than 80 percent of the benefits to a handful of super rich families. What they are doing to Illinois homeowners is bad policy and makes zero economic sense.” “The GOP tax scam takes money out of the pockets of families, neighbors, and homeowners in Illinois and puts it right into the pockets of wealthy real estate developers and the super-rich,” said Congressman Luis Gutiérrez. “The report issued by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today echoes what we have been saying: transferring money from hardworking families and homeowners to the very rich is not a recipe for economic growth and prosperity. Donald Trump is not interested in anyone who is not rich enough to buy condos in his buildings.” “The Republican tax law asks hard-working Illinoisans to pay for massive tax cuts for the most secure in our nation,” said Congressman Danny K. Davis. “Capping the State and Local Income Tax deduction double taxes over 40 million middle class families, while corporations that donate to political coffers get the full benefit. Indeed, 31 percent of Illinoisans recently claimed the SALT deduction for a total of $24.12 billion. Thus, the Republican law increases the taxes on over almost 2 million Illinoisans by hundreds of millions of dollars. It takes away critical personal exemptions from millions of families with children and devalues housing costs by capping the mortgage interest deduction. People in Chicago expect government to help real people, not millionaires and corporations.” “The GOP tax scam remains one of the most shameful and disastrous policies of this beleaguered Administration,” said Congressman Bobby Rush. “Washington Republicans have continued to show disdain for hardworking Americans. They are hellbent on working overtime to pad the pockets of the wealthy and well-connected on the backs of the very Americans we were all elected to serve. It is disgraceful that Republicans are punishing middle-class homeowners while rewarding real estate developers with tens of billions of dollars in tax breaks under their tax scam. This report further illustrates how this harmful scheme hurts Illinoisans and removes important tax deductions that all of our constituents have long relied on. I wish the GOP was more focused on fighting for the people — instead of big business and the wealthy — because Americans deserve better than their cronyism and incompetence,” “Real, comprehensive tax reform would help all Americans, but Republicans aren’t interested in providing relief to those who need it most,” said Congressman Mike Quigley. “Instead of supporting middle-class families who help our communities grow and thrive, they have introduced a GOP Tax Scam that provides tax breaks for mega real estate developers at the expense of hardworking homeowners. The callus decision to destroy vital longstanding tax deductions that assist Chicagoans who do not receive a fair return on investment from their federal tax dollars is a direct affront to those who have built their homes, families, and lives in the Chicagoland area.” Congressman Brad Schneider said: “The GOP’s partisan tax bill is punishing to Tenth District families, especially the more than 57,000 who now face double taxation on their state property taxes due to the restriction of the SALT deduction. We still need to reform our tax code, and I remain willing to work across the aisle on real reform that is fair, fiscally responsible, and grows our economy.” “As we near the one year anniversary of the infamous Republican tax law, one thing has become abundantly clear: working families are no better off today than they were before, and hundreds of thousands are worse off,” said Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. “In 2017, 128,000 of my constituents in Illinois’ 8th Congressional district could fully deduct property taxes under the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, and the average SALT deduction for state, income, and sales taxes was nearly $14,000. Today, 54,000 people are no longer able to fully deduct their property taxes using the SALT deduction because it has been cruelly and unnecessarily capped at $10,000. I strongly urge my Republican colleagues to implement tax policies that actually help American workers build middle-class lives for their families.” Read more about the report here. A copy of the report can be found here. ###
10.24.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in response to today’s attempted domestic terrorist attacks: “We will not succumb to fear or be intimidated by acts of violence and terrorism against public officials and private citizens perpetrated by the cowardly and inflamed by small people. I am thankful to law enforcement and the first responders who are our constant line of defense.” ###
10.19.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the remarks made by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Chicago Crime Commission: “U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions does not know Chicago and his remarks today prove it. He should be calling for more police accountability because no one is above the law. As the top law enforcement officer in the country he should not bemoan or hinder reform in the Chicago Police Department. His abysmal record on civil liberties for all Americans is nothing short of atrocious.” ###
10.06.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement slamming the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “President Trump campaigned on the promise of stacking the judiciary with right-wing partisan judges and, to do so, he outsourced his Supreme Court pick to the conservative Federalist Society. Now — with the help of Senators who outright ignored Judge Kavanaugh’s flawed views, hostility toward our current health care system, and lack of judicial temperament — he will, unfortunately, have a seat on the highest court in the land. “It is a disgrace that a political operative with such visible partisan leanings and contempt and disrespect for Congress’ role as a coequal branch of our federal government could be elevated to our nation’s most-respected institution. Judge Kavanaugh will no doubt be an activist judge who threatens to hinder the Constitutionally-protected rights that all Americans hold dear for decades to come. “I fear that his performance in his supplemental testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee is an indicator of the partisanship and divisiveness that he espouses and, clearly, seeks to inject in to the Supreme Court. His invocation of the Clintons and the 2016 Presidential election, his contempt towards members of the Committee, and the belligerence he displayed disqualified him from not only the Supreme Court, but from any position in the judiciary. “Judge Kavanaugh has also proven to have a dangerous and expansive view of presidential authority and has repeatedly sided with special corporate interests over that of ordinary Americans. His confirmation is a step backwards for minorities across our country as he will radically reverse course on America’s long march towards justice and will actively seek to dismantle fundamental rights. “This is a sad day for our nation because the Supreme Court will forever be tainted by Judge Kavanaugh who is not worthy of the honor, privilege, and opportunity of this lifetime appointment.” ###
10.05.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the conviction of Jason Van Dyke: “Today’s verdict shows that law enforcement will be held accountable for their egregious and unjustified use of force. While this conviction will not bring back Laquan McDonald, it serves as a strong reminder that no one — including law enforcement — is above the law. This tragedy has torn Chicago apart and now is a time for healing and quickly reforming our law enforcement agencies. I call on my fellow Chicagoans to rise to the moment and show the country and the world how we will channel our pain and anger into a constructive force.” ###
10.04.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) joined 50 Members of the Safe Climate Caucus in a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler demanding he rescind the Agency’s proposed so-called Affordable Clean Energy Rule, or at least allow for additional public hearings and time to comment. According to the EPA, the proposed rule would result in more than 1,600 deaths by 2030. “It is clear that President Trump and Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler are endangering lives and undermining the transition to cleaner, safer energy sources. Americans deserve a clean environment and proposing to bury the Clean Power Plan, which set the first federal limits on carbon pollution from power plants — a major source of the pollution that exacerbates climate change — puts corporate polluters before the health and safety of our nation,” said Rush. “Trump’s toxic team are beholden to their special interest friends’ dirty energy agenda, which threatens the health of our nation. Andrew Wheeler is a career lobbyist for big polluters, including the largest coal mining company in America, who has spent a lifetime fighting protections for clean air, clean water, and public health. We will not stand by and watch this Administration continue its assault on critical environmental protections. I will continue to fight for a better, safer, and cleaner environment for future generations.” The full text of the letter is available here. ###
10.01.2018	CHICAGO — Public officials and private industry partners mark the beginning of the $474 million 75th Street Corridor Improvement Project, a linchpin in the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) Program that aims to eliminate a chokepoint at a critical South Side Chicago junction for freight and passenger trains. When completed in 2025, the project is expected to yield an estimated $3.8 billion in new economic benefits from eliminating multiple conflicts and increasing capacity at one of the busiest rail intersections in the US. One quarter of the nation’s rail freight originates, terminates, or passes through the corridor; approximately 100 trains use the corridor daily, including 30 Metra trains. The project got a green light in June when the US Department of Transportation (USDOT) announced a $132 million grant to complete the funding for the modernization, which will also deliver mobility, air quality and safety benefits. “Today we mark the final phase of preparation for this important transportation infrastructure project,” Rauner said. “It is the culmination of years of teamwork and planning by industry and government that will result in more efficient and more productive flows of goods, services and people in our region and in the nation as a whole. This will enhance Illinois reputation as the country’s transportation center.” The State will contribute $111 million to the effort. The freight railroad industry is providing $116 million. Cook County will pay $78 million; Metra and Amtrak $28 million; and the City of Chicago $9 million. According to CREATE, the investment will cut 32,000 annual passenger hours of delay from rail travel in the region. “The Illinois Department of Transportation received one of the largest INFRA grants this year, totaling $132 million through an exemplary public-private partnership created to improve freight connectivity, decrease congestion, and enhance safety along this nationally significant rail network,” said Secretary Elaine L. Chao. The USDOT grant was made as part of the Department’s INFRA (Infrastructure for Rebuilding America) program. INFRA grants support the Administration’s commitment to fixing the nation’s crumbling infrastructure by creating opportunities for all levels of government and the private sector to fund infrastructure programs. “The CREATE program is grounded in a simple idea – solutions to big challenges only happen when everyone is at the table,” said Edward R. Hamberger, President and CEO of the Association of American Railroads. “We are all committed to improving service for both Chicago rail commuters and freight customers nationwide, and this project dramatically moves the ball forward by untangling one of the most congested points in the U.S. rail network. America’s railroads are here for the long-haul as we continue to advance rail in Chicago.” “Cook County is North America’s freight capital. By advancing this nationally significant project and creating additional capacity for rail, we are enabling businesses to move their products to market in the U.S. and, ultimately, overseas efficiently, with further downstream job creation,” Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle said. “Chicago is America’s rail hub, and this project is a significant step forward towards safer, stronger and more reliable freight and passenger rail in our city,” Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said. “I want to thank our state, federal and private sector partners for working with the City of Chicago on this vital infrastructure investment that will create jobs and strengthen our economy for generations.” “This project – funded through the federal INFRA grant program – is great news for freight and commuter rail and communities throughout the region,” U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) said. “Completion of this critical transportation link will improve safety, reduce rail and vehicle congestion, and create good paying jobs. I’ve been proud to support this federal funding program, which aids the City's efforts to improve safety and alleviate congestion in a region that desperately needs it.” “For too long, congestion and delays have defined transportation and commerce throughout the Chicagoland area. But today, we’re taking a step toward ensuring that our rail system is as efficient as Illinoisans deserve. This project will relieve the chokehold along the 75th Street Corridor and at similar bottlenecks throughout the region—creating jobs and making our roads safer in the process. I want to thank the Department of Transportation along with the elected officials and industry partners who worked hard to make this groundbreaking possible,” said U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL). “While the 75th Street Corridor Improvement Project is located in Chicago, its completion will be beneficial to the entire state of Illinois,” said Congressman Rodney Davis (R-IL). “I applaud this administration for making infrastructure a priority. This project will go a long way in alleviating train congestion in the Chicago area that has slowed down the movement of ag products and other goods and prevented access to reliable, high-speed rail between Chicago and downstate Illinois.” “This key CREATE project will not only improve Metra and Amtrak service and alleviate blocked rail crossings, it will also create jobs and help boost the local economy,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL). “Since I was able to secure the initial $100 million grant to begin CREATE in 2005, we have made significant progress in this public-private partnership with federal funding leading the way. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to secure more funding for CREATE and improve local transportation.” “Federal dollars play a significant role in rebuilding and reimagining our infrastructure. And addressing and providing solutions to the transportation needs of my constituents was one of the key reasons I advocated for this funding. I know the residents in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois will be pleased to see the benefits of this project once it is completed because it will greatly reduce delays, train idling, and congestion,” said Congressman Bobby Rush (D-IL). “I remain committed to fighting for more funding that will benefit our local economy and improve the quality of life for our communities. Americans deserve better infrastructure and we are delivering.” “The 75th Street corridor has long been one of the pillars of the CREATE program and a project that needed to happen if we are to truly build a world-class transportation system for Illinois,” said Illinois Transportation Secretary Randy Blankenhorn. “Getting to this point has required vision, leadership and commitment that will benefit residents and businesses in countless ways, while strengthening our status as the country’s transportation hub.” ###
10.01.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on his absence at today’s CREATE Program Groundbreaking: “While in Washington, D.C. last week, I fell suddenly ill and was hospitalized throughout the weekend. I am doing much better and, I am pleased to say, I have been released from the hospital. Nevertheless, instructions from my doctors prevent me from attending today’s CREATE Program groundbreaking. “I wish I could be there to celebrate the extraordinary efforts between federal, state, and local officials that led to this point. While I am not there in person I am proud of this important development that will significantly enhance the quality of life of Chicago-area residents and the 1st Congressional District of Illinois by bringing critically needed rail improvements to our communities. We’re working to provide robust infrastructure enhancements to our rail system with the CREATE 75th Street Corridor Improvement Project in Chicago. “Federal dollars play a significant role in rebuilding and reimagining our infrastructure. And addressing and providing solutions to the transportation needs of my constituents was one of the key reasons I advocated for this funding. “That is why I am happy to support this project and to be a part of the group of elected officials who helped secure the Infrastructure For Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant award from U.S. Department of Transportation, which culminated in this $132 million federal investment. “I remain committed to fighting for more funding that will benefit our local economy and improve the quality of life for our communities. Americans deserve better infrastructure and we are delivering. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House and Senate celebrating the 200th anniversary of the founding of the State of Illinois. The resolution, cosponsored by every member of the Illinois delegation, honors and celebrates the State of Illinois and the Illinoisans who have participated in cultivating the rich history of the State. December 3, 2018, will mark the 200th anniversary of the State of Illinois’ admittance as the 21st State to the Union. “Illinois has played a central role in our country, and I’m not just talking about geography. It’s been the birthplace and home to four Presidents, World Fairs, and robust economic activity that has spanned the Midwest. At every turn, Illinoisans have shown resilience. This is the legacy of our State and the people who call it home, and I’m proud to recognize it by introducing a resolution commemorating our bicentennial year. I’m glad that the entire Illinois Congressional Delegation could join in this effort,” said Durbin. "Illinois’ Bicentennial is a wonderful opportunity to lift up our great state's history and celebrate its strengths, such as our world-class universities, vital agricultural producers, and rich outdoor activities," said Duckworth. "I'm so proud to call Illinois home and help introduce this resolution with the entire Illinois Congressional delegation." “Illinois is rich with history, having played significant roles in shaping our great nation and moving the country forward. Commemorating our exceptional state on this momentous anniversary will give Illinoisans another opportunity to reflect on the legacy of the ‘Prairie State’ that expanded the heartland and provided the moral foundation for Lincoln’s leadership that freed more than three million slaves and maintained our union,” said Rush. “Illinois has led by example in fighting for equality and justice. Illinois has produced visionary officials and innovative residents. We are a state that comes together for the common good and welcomes visitors from far and wide. I look forward to celebrating the 200th anniversary of the founding of the great State of Illinois and honoring the achievements of our past and eagerly look forward to the ones that await us in the future.” “I’m proud and honored to join my Illinois delegation colleagues in introducing this resolution to celebrate Illinois’ bicentennial. For two hundred years, our great state has been an integral part of building the America of today – the world’s richest, most innovative and powerful country. I couldn’t be prouder or more humbled to represent the great people of Illinois’ Second Congressional District in Congress and I’m honored to serve this great state,” said Kelly. “In its two hundred year history, covering everything from culture to our economy, Illinois has and continues to play an important role in our country. From sprawling cornfields to tall skyscrapers, our diversity is what makes us great. I’m proud call the ‘Land of Lincoln’ home,” said Lipinski. “The Land of Lincoln and the land of my birth will proudly mark 200 years in the union. Our ancestors have come from all over the world to build and sustain our state and our sons and daughters have fought to keep us free and have led our nation with distinction in innumerable ways. I am proud to join with all of my colleagues in this effort,” said Gutiérrez. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in celebrating the 200th anniversary of our great state and the diverse, talented, and innovative people who call it home,” said Quigley. “It is a privilege to represent Illinois and the City of Chicago in Congress, and I am convinced that there is no greater place to start a family, build a business, or simply visit just for fun. As we commemorate our bicentennial and all that Illinoisans have achieved over the last 200 years, I look forward to the next 200 years in anticipation of our state’s continued strength and success, which not only benefits our communities but our country as a whole.” “The upcoming Illinois Bicentennial is a celebration of what makes Illinois special and serves as a reminder of why we are proud to be from this great state. From the Lincoln Library to discovering America’s past at the ancient Native American city at Cahokia Mounds, to the historical sites of Illinois’ Sixth District, every day we celebrate Illinois’ great history, stories and unique communities. The Sixth District is home to many historic sites such as the Naper Settlement, the Little Popcorn Store in Wheaton, the Mayslake Peabody Estate in Oak Brook and the British House Museum in St. Charles, and I am looking forward to celebrating the plentiful history of Illinois with the great constituents of the Sixth District,” said Roskam. “I join my colleagues in recalling and reflecting on the 200 years of Illinois history. We have much to be proud of in that history, but recognizing that we still confront many challenges. We are determined to build our own successes and learn from where we have fallen short as we advance confidently into the future,” said Danny Davis. “Illinois’ bicentennial is the perfect time to reflect on the great history of the Land of Lincoln and all the ways our state continues to lead the way today,” said Krishnamoorthi. “As the Representative for the west and northwest Chicago suburbs which constitute the 8th District, I’m proud to join my colleagues in honoring our Illinois’ legacy while working together to build and even brighter future.” “Happy 200th birthday Illinois!” said Schakowsky. “It is a joy and a privilege to represent Illinois in Congress. This state welcomed my immigrant parents and grandparents and gave them the opportunity to work towards the American dream. Our great state has given countless of immigrants from every corner of the globe the same opportunity to work for a better future. In Illinois and in Chicago we pride ourselves on our strength and our work – that’s why Chicago is and will always be a labor town. There are more ‘local 1s’ in Chicago than any other city. My birthday wish for Illinois is for the next 200 years to bring more opportunity, equality, and prosperity for all Illinoisans.” “The bicentennial of our great state is an opportunity for all of us to celebrate what makes Illinois such a special place to call home and highlight its contributions to our country,” said Foster. “I am proud to represent the 11th Congressional District of Illinois and vibrant, diverse communities like Aurora, Naperville, Bolingbrook, and Joliet, made up of hardworking people who represent what makes America great. From Abraham Lincoln to Jane Addams, from Enrico Fermi to Barack Obama, the impact of Illinoisans on the great story of America is undeniable. I’m honored to join the entire Illinois congressional delegation in the celebration of 200 years of our history as a state.” “As we celebrate Illinois’ Bicentennial, we are reminded of Illinois’ long, proud history,” said Bost. “I am particularly honored to represent the 12th Congressional District, a region that was home to two Lincoln-Douglas debates, the cradle of the ancient Mississippian Culture at Cahokia Mounds, and a land with rivers so vast and agriculture fields so rich that it earned the nickname ‘Little Egypt.’ As we celebrate 200 years of contributions to the American Dream, as Illinoisans we can look back to its past with pride and forward with hope to all we have to offer in the future.” “As the representative of our state’s capital and part of the district that Abraham Lincoln represented in Congress, I am honored to introduce this resolution with my Illinois colleagues to commemorate Illinois’ bicentennial,” said Rodney Davis. “Illinois has been my home for over 40 years and I look forward to celebrating 200 years of rich history this December.” “As we approach the bicentennial of Illinois, we look to highlight what makes our state great. I am so proud to represent the 14th District, which includes The Fox River Valley, the Chain of Lakes, rolling farmland that makes Illinois the bread basket that feeds the nation, and so many dozens and dozens of towns that are the heartbeat of our state. However, a celebration of Illinois is not complete without also honoring a special giant who hovers over our state, Honest Abe himself. I cannot emphasize enough the impact Abraham Lincoln had on our state and also on our nation. No doubt our state shaped his vision of what America was meant to be. His moral leadership, his persistent fight against the evils of slavery, his ability to bring diverse coalitions of people together to unify the country, all this and more is why we are proud to call Illinois the Land of Lincoln. I am so grateful for the opportunity to celebrate our state that we are so proud of. Happy Birthday Illinois!” said Hultgren. “It remains the honor of a lifetime to represent 33 of Illinois’ 102 counties,” said Shimkus. “As we celebrate the 200th anniversary of our great state, I’m reminded of the natural beauty that surrounds us from the Shawnee National Forest and its Garden of the Gods to the miles and miles of corn and bean fields that feed and fuel our nation. Illinois is truly a special place, and I thank Governor Rauner for his leadership in organizing this year’s bicentennial celebrations. ” “I’m proud to call Illinois home, and humbled to represent the great people of the 16th District, where the First Lincoln-Douglas Debate took place and where President Reagan lived as a child. Illinois leads the country in agriculture, manufacturing, specialized license plates – and our great Prairie State has a lot to celebrate in its 200th year. Here’s to our state sovereignty and national union,” said Kinzinger. “I am proud to join my colleagues in celebrating 200 years of rich history in the state that I am fortunate enough to call home,” said Bustos. “From Abraham Lincoln’s first days in the state house to Ulysses S. Grant’s campaign headquarters, Illinois has played a pivotal role in our nation’s history. I hope this resolution serves as an opportunity to come together and reflect on our accomplishments while looking forward to all the great things ahead.” “As a proud Illinoisan and co-chair of the Illinois State Society, I am pleased to support this bipartisan resolution to commemorate our great state’s bicentennial. The Land of Lincoln has an incredibly rich history and I applaud the continued efforts to recognize our State’s accomplishments. This resolution is another appropriate measure to honor its 200th anniversary," said LaHood. Full text of the resolution is available here: ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks at the "DOE Modernization: The Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response” hearing: "Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding this important and timely hearing and I want to welcome Assistant Secretary Evans to the Energy Subcommittee for the first time. "Mr. Chairman, the issue of cyber-security is always prevalent in the minds of Members of this Subcommittee, as well as in the minds of the American public, as we have heard of many instances of cyber-attacks and cyber probes, both domestically and abroad, over the past few years. "Mr. Chairman, as recently as April we heard from the FERC commissioners that our energy grid is constantly being attacked, almost daily, by state actors, as well as by other entities who would try to do us harm. "While we have not yet seen widespread outages due to cyber-attacks on our electric grid, it is imperative that we take proactive steps to mitigate the risk of these types of attacks, to the maximum extent possible. "It is my hope and expectation that installing Assistant Secretary Evans into her new role as head of the Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response, or CESER, will go a long way in achieving that objective. "Mr. Chairman, as you know, I have worked with my colleague, Mr. Walberg of Michigan, on a bill to codify some of the work that DOE has already been conducting when we introduced HR 5174, the Energy Emergency Leadership Act back in March. "I want to acknowledge Mr. Walberg for his leadership on this issue and convey my appreciation to all of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for their support of the legislation as it passed through the both Subcommittee and full Committee earlier this spring. "As you know, Mr. Chairman, HR 5174 would basically codify this new position by amending Section 203(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act and establishing the Assistant Secretary position responsible for cybersecurity and emergency response issues. "The newly created Assistant Secretary would have jurisdiction over all energy emergency and security functions related to energy supply, infrastructure, and cybersecurity. "Mr. Chairman, this bill would also authorize the new Assistant Secretary to provide DOE technical assistance, as well as support and response capabilities with respect to energy security risks to State, local, or tribal governments upon request. "Mr. Chairman, this legislation, along with the work that DOE is already doing, will go a long way in helping to protect the nation’s electric infrastructure from hackers who would attempt to disrupt our energy grid and cause untold harm to our economy, our daily lives, and to our overall national security. "However, as the letter my office received yesterday from the American Public Power Association, the Edison Electric Institute, and the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association urges, we must act in a bipartisan way to get this bill and other legislation addressing cyber-security concerns out of Committee and onto the House Floor in a timely manner. "As policymakers, we all want to ensure that we are providing DOE and each of the agencies all of the authorities and resources that they need to comprehensively address the cyber threats that our nation faces. "So, I look forward to hearing from Assistant Secretary Evans on her feedback on this bill, as well as some of her top priorities in this new position. "And with that, I yield back the balance of my time."
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 6906, legislation which would designate the portion of Interstate Route 57 (I-57) located in Illinois as “Barack Obama Highway.” I-57 is an interstate highway in Missouri and Illinois that, at a length of 386 miles, is the second longest two-digit Interstate Highway without an auxiliary route. I-57 remains the only expressway that transits the Chicagoland area that does not have a commonly used name. “Renaming a portion of I-57 will be a constant reminder of the legacy of President Barack Obama who started his historic political career in Illinois and was elected to the highest office in the land from our great state. This major interstate artery, which connects commuters, students, and tourists will serve as a powerful symbol of the connection President Obama not only had with the country but with the state he adopted as his own,” said Rush. ###
09.19.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) would award $1,323,121 in federal funding to Chicago State University. This collaborative research grant will broaden minority participation in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) through the Louis Stokes Midwest Regional Center of Excellence (LSMRCE). LSMRCE is a partnership of Chicago State University (CSU) and Indiana University–Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI). As cofounders of the Louis Stokes Midwest Center of Excellence (LSMCE), CSU and IUPUI extended the partnership to include The Ohio State University (OSU) and Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab). CSU has served as the lead institution for the Illinois Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation Programs (LSAMP) program since 1993. This funding will allow researchers to obtain significant new knowledge on factors that sustain institutional collaborations that advance underrepresented minority student achievement in STEM majors at LSAMP campuses. The engagement in broadening participation research collaborations of the faculty will help generate the needed data to assess STEM education efficacy that reaches across all communities of learners who will graduate and advance their education in STEM. “This is a major win for Chicago State University. As one of the great institutions within the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, it is important to see them develop and lead a diverse new generation of researchers. I have always seen the STEM field as the great equalizer for women and minority students, especially as the need in the STEM workforce continues to grow at a rapid pace. We must ensure that these underrepresented students are given the opportunity to succeed and I will continue to fight for resources and federal funding that will provide access to the training that will allow them to do so,” said Rush. The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and innovative technologies needed to address the challenges of today and the future. ###
09.18.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced the annual 1st Congressional District Military Academy Day. This year’s Military Academy Day will be held on Friday, October 5, 2018, from 9:00am – 12:00pm at the Chicago Public Library’s Woodson Regional Library branch located at 9525 South Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois 60628. This informational and interactive event is free and open to all students, parents, and guidance staff who are interested in learning more about the nation’s service academies. Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will be available to answer questions about the application and nomination process. Students residing in the 1st Congressional District are encouraged to attend. For more information contact James Teague at (773) 779-2400. ###
09.17.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) delivered the following remarks at a press conference to unveil a report on Illinoisans in danger of losing health care because of Republican attacks on the Affordable Care Act: Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today to discuss the Trump Administration’s continued attacks on hard-working Americans with pre-existing conditions. "This is issue impacts nearly 5 million Illinois residents — with over one quarter of a million of those living right here in Cook County — whose access to health care is threatened. "We have had enough of the Republicans’ relentless and cruel way of governing and will not stand by and watch them rip away health care — especially from our most vulnerable Americans. "I am proud to stand with my Democratic colleagues: Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky Congressman Danny Davis Congressman Mike Quigley Congresswoman Robin Kelly Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi "We are committed to fighting against the GOP’s sabotage of Americans’ health care. "I am also glad to stand with Cook County Board President, Toni Preckwinkle. "And brave Illinoisans like Jeremy Wechsler — who are bearing the brunt of the unprecedented attacks on our health care from Washington Republicans and the Trump Administration — but are not afraid to speak out. "Republicans are taking every opportunity to make health care worse in America. "They have voted multiple times to take away protections for people with pre-existing conditions, and since they failed in Congress, they are using the courts to take away those protections too. "Their vicious assault on hard-working Americans puts 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions in dire peril. "They are putting Americans with health conditions such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, and mental illness at great risk. "This is all while report after report shows the incredible level of damage their sabotage campaign will do to Americans in every Congressional district. "Our constituents are in Republican crosshairs and we will not stand by and watch them be denied coverage." ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following remarks at the full committee markup of H.R. 6511, H.R. 3325, H.R. 3891, H.R. 5306, H.R. 6733, and H.R. 6753: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this markup today on a host of important bills from the various subcommittees. "Mr. Chairman, I want to specifically express my support for HR 6511, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Reform Act and HR 3325, the Advancing Care for Exceptional Kids, or ACE Kids, Act. "Mr. Chairman, HR 6511 would simply authorize a pilot project to commercialize the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, or SPR, and I want to acknowledge and thank my good friend and colleague, Joe Barton of Texas, for working with my office on this bipartisan piece of legislation. "Mr. Chairman, it is my hope that after this bill is enacted it will help inform our decisions regarding the best use of the SPR moving forward. "As we all know, the energy portfolio of the U.S. has changed dramatically since the SPR was first established back in the 1970’s and we are now a leading exporter of oil and gas. "These developments have provided policymakers, including Members of this Committee of jurisdiction, an opportunity to examine important questions regarding the size, configuration, and necessity for the SPR moving forward. "Mr. Chairman, the pilot program outlined in this bill will help inform our decisions regarding the feasibility of leasing out all or part of the SPR to the private sector or to friendly foreign governments that do not pose a national security risk. "Over the past few years, Congressionally-mandated sales of SPR oil has opened up space within these caverns that can now be leased to private companies and/or foreign governments as a way to maximize taxpayers’ return on investment. "So, Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to work, once again, with my good friend Joe Barton to move this bill forward and help provide Members with a better understanding of the direction Congress should be moving as we make decisions regarding the future size, scope, and makeup of the SPR. "Additionally, Mr. Chairman, I am also pleased to see that HR 3325, the ACE Kids Act, is being marked up in committee today. "I know my colleagues, Congressman Barton and Congresswoman Castor, have worked on this bill for quite a few years and I would like to commend them for all of their dedication and commitment. "The ACE Kids Act addresses several existing challenges in CHIP and Medicaid that children face, including providing and managing care across multiple providers and services and easing access to out-of-state care. "Mr. Chairman, this bill has the potential to positively impact over 1.6 million kids in my home state of Illinois, alone, so I am proud to cosponsor this bill, and I look forward to supporting it here today, as well as during its successful passage on the House Floor. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the House passage of S. 3021, America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. The legislation includes Rush’s provision, H.R. 4908, which will authorize $5 million annually for FY 2019–2021 for grants for schools to replace lead drinking water fountains manufactured before 1988: This critically important legislation also reauthorizes the Safe Drinking Water Act for the first time in 20 years and provides significant funding to state and local governments that are in dire need of upgrading their water infrastructure. “As the proud author of this important provision, I am pleased to see its inclusion in this bill and was excited to support its passage. Lead — and access to safe drinking water — is a serious issue that communities in every part of Illinois and the nation face; especially in poorer communities, such as those in my Congressional District. Americans expect schools to be a safe and healthy place for their children and that means creating an environment that is free of lead-contaminated water. It is past time that Congress addressed this issue and I am pleased that I was able to help shape this important legislation,” said Rush. Lead is considered one of the most hazardous environmental pollutants and can lead to behavioral problems in children and have detrimental effects on kids’ ability to thrive. Exposure to lead at high levels can attack the brain and central nervous system and can cause coma, convulsions, and even death. “I remain committed to upgrading our broken infrastructure to modern standards and ensuring that every drop of water our children consume is safe. This bill is a step in the right direction and I commend my colleagues for working with me in a bipartisan and bicameral manner to protect and safeguard future generations,” said Rush. In addition to being used to upgrade existing infrastructure, the grants could also be used to monitor and report lead levels in school drinking water. Low income communities will be given priority for this grant program. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 6717, the ‘‘Depression Side Effect Labeling Awareness Act of 2018.’’ This legislation would amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and require that drugs with an increased risk of suicide or depression have a prominent label detailing those side effects. “There are millions of Americans who are taking prescribed and over the counter medication that can greatly increase the risk of suicide or depression. Therefore, it is critically important that those risk factors are prominently displayed to ensure that patients along with their health care provider can have a more thorough discussion as it relates to patient safety and awareness of harmful side effects,” said Rush. This legislation would amend the end of Section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352) 6 and add: ‘‘(ee) If the warnings and precautions in the drug’s label include an increased risk of suicide or depression, unless such increased risk is presented prominently.’’ “A paper published this summer by the Journal of the American Medical Association showed that prescription medications are increasingly used among adults in the United States and many have a potential for causing depression. As legislators we must use our power to provide awareness and inform Americans about the medications they are taking and how it can affect their lives.” ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee spoke on the House Floor this afternoon in opposition to HR 4606, the “Ensuring Small Scale LNG Certainty and Access Act:” "Thank you, Mr. Speaker. "Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to HR 4606, Ensuring Small Scale LNG Certainty and Access Act. "Mr. Speaker, this bill is unnecessary as the Department of Energy has already finalized a rule that would approve any applications to import or export as much as 0.14 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day if no environmental reviews are required. "Additionally, Mr. Speaker, I offered an amendment to this bill that would have protected the property rights of landowners, but that amendment was refused by the Rules Committee. "Mr. Speaker, my amendment simply would have ensured that eminent domain would not be exploited for the construction of any pipeline used to import or export any of the gas through this expedited process. "Mr. Speaker, Members from both sides of the aisle have been bombarded with complaints from constituents who have been forced to defend their own property rights due to aggressive tactics by companies seeking to appropriate their land in order to make a profit. "Congress should stand on the side of these constituents, as my amendment would have ensured, instead of making it easier for private companies to seize land from citizens. "This is especially true in cases where applications are expedited, with little to no opportunity for public input or debate throughout the process, as this underline bill mandates. "Mr. Speaker, although my amendment was not made in order, I also urge my colleagues to support both of the amendments offered by my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee. "Ranking Member Pallone’s amendment would require public hearings so that the American people would have an opportunity to have their voices heard in this process. "Additionally, Congresswoman DeGette’s amendment would require LNG export applications demonstrate that the natural gas was produced in a manner that minimizes dangerous methane emissions. "A June 2018 report by Science magazine found that 13 million metric tons of methane are emitted yearly by the oil and gas industry, despite the fact that there is already existing cost-effective technology available to reduce these emissions. "So, Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support both the Pallone and DeGette Amendments. "If those amendments are defeated then I would urge all of my colleagues to oppose the underline bill, HR 4606 and with that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks at the markup on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Reform Act: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this markup today examining legislation to authorize a pilot project to commercialize the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, or SPR. "I also want to acknowledge and thank my good friend and colleague, Joe Barton of Texas, for working with my office on this bipartisan piece of legislation. "Mr. Chairman, I must also commend the staff from both the minority and majority sides for working together on this bipartisan bill, which should help inform our decisions regarding the best use of the SPR moving forward. "Mr. Chairman, as we know, the energy portfolio of the U.S. has undergone a dramatic change since the SPR was first established to counter the oil shortages of the 1970’s. "In fact, as the U.S. has transformed from a heavy importer of foreign oil, to a global leader in oil exports, the SPR is now used more as a piggybank to fund a vast variety of unrelated Congressional initiatives, rather than its initial purpose as an emergency energy backstop. "Accordingly, Mr. Chairman, this bill will not only help to repurpose the SPR, but it will also actually bring in extra revenue by leasing storage space to friendly foreign allies and private companies. "This funding could then be used to help pay for infrastructure upgrades to modernize these facilities and maximize the American taxpayers’ return on this investment. "So again, I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important markup today and I look forward to working with Mr. Barton and the majority side to move this bill expeditiously through committee, to the Floor, and ultimately to the President to be signed into law. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
08.28.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill) joined the Committee on Education & The Workforce’s Ranking Member Bobby Scott (Va.) and more than 170 House Democrats in sending a letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos calling on the Department to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding to buy guns for teachers and school staff. The letter comes in the wake of a New York Times report revealing the administration’s consideration of a proposal that would allow schools to redirect federal K-12 education funding, for services like mental health counseling, for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. “Students and school staff deserve a learning environment that is safe, welcoming, and conducive to quality instruction and student learning,” the Members wrote. “Arming teachers would not only jeopardize student and staff health and safety, but also run counter to Congressional intent, precedent, and common sense.” According to press reports, the proposal under review would allow Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants authorized under Title IV-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to be used to arm teachers and other school staff. Title IV-A is a program with bipartisan support that is intended to improve school climate in high-needs schools through a wide range of approaches. Grants can be used for efforts such as expanding students’ access to mental health services, supporting drug prevention and anti-bullying campaigns, improving access to arts and STEM curriculum, and increasing the availability of cutting edge technology to support student learning. “Title IV-A affords local leaders the flexibility to tailor investments to meet local needs; however, in writing and enacting ESSA, Congress never contemplated, and thus never intended, that such flexibility would allow for the procurement of firearms,” the Members wrote. “Any use of funds to purchase weapons not only violates intent, but it also clearly contradicts the plain reading of the statute.” The text of Title IV-A of ESSA, which was signed into law in 2015, specifically promotes activities that support “a school environment free of weapons.” As recently as this year, Congress reiterated its opposition to spending federal funds to put guns in schools. In authorizing the STOP School Violence Act in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida school shooting, Congress acted to prohibit program funds from being used for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. The letter makes clear that, even without further action by Congress, Secretary DeVos must adhere to federal law and honor the intent of Congress. The Members are asking Secretary DeVos for written confirmation, by the end of this week, of the Department’s intent to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding for the purchase of guns. Such guidance would uphold current policy which was recently reaffirmed by the Trump administration, as evidenced through Department of Homeland Security Grant program guidance, to prohibit the purchase of firearms using federal funds. The full text of the letter is available here. The letter is signed by: Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce Representative Adam B. Schiff Representative Adam Smith Representative Adriano Espaillat Representative Al Green Representative Al Lawson Jr. Representative Alan S. Lowenthal Representative Albio Sires Representative Alcee L. Hastings Representative Alma S. Adams Ph.D. Representative Andre Carson Representative Anna G. Eshoo Representative Anthony G. Brown Representative Barbara Lee Representative Ben Ray Lujan Representative Bennie G. Thompson Representative Betty McCollum Representative Bill Foster Representative Bill Pascrell Jr. Representative Bobby L. Rush Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman Representative Brad Schneider Representative Brad Sherman Representative Brenda L. Lawrence Representative Brian Higgins Representative Carol Shea-Porter Representative Carolyn B. Maloney Representative Cedric L. Richmond Representative Charlie Christ Representative Chellie Pingree Representative Cheri Bustos Representative Colleen Hanabusa Representative Conor Lamb Representative Daniel T. Kildee Representative Daniel W. Lipinski Representative Danny K. Davis Representative Darren Soto Representative David E. Price Representative David Loebsack Representative David N. Cicilline Representative David Scott Representative Debbie Dingell Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz Representative Denny Heck Representative Derek Kilmer Representative Diana DeGette Representative Dina Titus Representative Donald M. Payne Jr. Representative Donald McEachin Representative Donald Norcross Representative Donald S. Beyer Jr. Representative Doris Matsui Representative Dutch Ruppersberger Representative Dwight Evans Representative Earl Blumenauer Representative Ed Perlmutter Representative Eddie Bernice Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton Representative Elijah E. Cummings Representative Eliot L. Engel Representative Elizabeth H. Esty Representative Emanuel Cleaver II Representative Eric Swalwell Representative Frank Pallone, Jr. Representative Frederica S. Wilson Representative G.K. Butterfield Representative Gene Green Representative Gerald E. Connolly Representative Grace F. Napolitano Representative Grace Meng Representative Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Representative Gregory W. Meeks Representative Gwen S. Moore Representative Hakeem S. Jeffries Representative Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Representative J. Luis Correa Representative Jackie Speier Representative Jacky Rosen Representative James A. Himes Representative James P. McGovern Representative James R. Langevin Representative Jamie Raskin Representative Janice D. Schakowsky Representative Jared Huffman Representative Jared Polis Representative Jerrold Nadler Representative Jerry McNerney Representative Jim Cooper Representative Jimmy Gomez Representative Jimmy Panetta Representative Joaquin Castro Representative Joe Courtney Representative John A. Yarmuth Representative John B. Larson Representative John Garamendi Representative John K. Delaney Representative John Lewis Representative John P. Sarbanes Representative Jose E. Serrano Representative Joseph Crowley Representative Joseph P. Kennedy, III Representative Josh Gottheimer Representative Joyce Beatty Representative Judy Chu Representative Julia Brownley Representative Karen Bass Representative Katherine M. Clark Representative Kathleen M. Rice Representative Keith Ellison Representative Kurt Schrader Representative Lacy Clay Representative Linda T. Sanchez Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester Representative Lloyd Doggett Representative Lois Frankel Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard Representative Luis V. Guitierrez Representative Marc A. Veasey Representative Marcia L. Fudge Representative Marcy Kaptur Representative Mark DeSaulnier Representative Mark Pocan Representative Mark Takano Representative Maxine Waters Representative Michael E. Capuano Representative Michael F. Doyle Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham Representative Mike Quigley Representative Mike Thompson Representative Nanette Diaz Barragan Representative Niki Tsongas Representative Nita M. Lowey Representative Norma J. Torres Representative Nydia M. Velazquez Representative Paul D. Tonko Representative Pete Aguilar Representative Peter A. DeFazio Representative Peter Welch Representative Pramila Jayapal Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Representative Raul M. Grijalva Representative Richard E. Neal Representative Richard M. Nolan Representative Rick Larsen Representative Ro Khanna Representative Robin L. Kelly Representative Rosa L. DeLauro Representative Ruben J. Kihuen Representative Salud O. Carbajal Representative Sander M. Levin Representative Scott H. Peters Representative Sean Patrick Maloney Representative Seth Moulton Representative Sheila Jackson Lee Representative Stacey E. Plaskett Representative Stephanie Murphy Representative Stephen F. Lynch Representative Steve Cohen Representative Susan A. Davis Representative Suzan K. DelBene Representative Suzanne Bonamici Representative Ted W. Lieu Representative Terri A. Sewell Representative Theodore E. Deutch Representative Thomas R. Suozzi Representative Tim Ryan Representative Timothy J. Walz Representative Tony Cardenas Representative Tulsi Gabbard Representative Val Butler Demings Representative William R. Keating Representative Yvette D. Clarke Representative Zoe Lofgren
08.25.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.): “Today, the nation lost not only an American hero but a political force and icon. Senator McCain made extraordinary sacrifices for our country and served all of us with honor, dignity, and respect. His love of country and selfless sacrifice on behalf of our nation is one of the greatest examples of public service. He will forever be remembered as a true patriot who never surrendered his sense of decency for political expediency. His contributions to the nation and to the world are immeasurable. Senator McCain was the definition of a maverick who always put country first. His leadership, bravery, independence, and patriotism are his legacy and something we can all aspire to. On behalf of my wife, Paulette, and the residents of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I extend my heartfelt condolences to his family, friends, staff, and the country he so dearly loved. May this American hero rest in peace.” ###
08.21.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its plan to reverse the Obama-era Clean Power Plan: “It should come as no surprise that the Trump Administration, which has been riddled with an unprecedented culture of corruption, cronyism, and self-enrichment has decided to put the profits of polluters over the health and safety of Americans. Trump’s toxic team is clearly beholden to their special interest friends’ dirty energy agenda, which threatens the health of our nation. “It is appalling that this Administration continues its assault on critical environmental protections and is willing to sell off our health and safety to the highest and most well-connected bidder. Instead of removing environmental safeguards — that are so desperately needed in communities across this country — and denying the existence of climate change, this beleaguered Administration should be working every day to protect our environment for future generations, and investing in the good paying, clean energy jobs of the future. “Trump’s Dirty Power Scam proposal is disastrous and a blatant attempt to pander to his political base. I will continue to fight for a clean energy future and ensure that the safety and health of all communities remains a priority.” ###
08.10.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Hal Baskin: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Hal Baskin. He was a true friend, confidant, and advisor. Hal was a dedicated and passionate leader who kept me connected to all things Englewood. Words cannot express the amount of respect, love, and regard I have for Hal and his family. We worked so well together and had a strong kinship and I am completely shocked and absolutely devastated by his untimely death. His passing will leave an enormous hole in Chicago, Englewood, and the African-American community. My condolences to his family, friends, and admirers.” ###
08.09.2018	EVANSTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) delivered the following remarks at a press conference to mark the 10th anniversary Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act. Thank you all for joining us today. I am honored to be here this morning and celebrate the momentous milestone — that is the 10th anniversary of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act. I was extremely proud to provide leadership on this important bill, which is the first line of defense in keeping hazardous products out of the hands of children and unsuspecting families. It is great to be surrounded by individuals who championed this legislation, as well as other critical issues that impact the lives of children and families across Illinois and this great nation. In the ten years since this landmark law, it has likely saved the lives of millions of children. We must remember that this legislation provided an effective congressional response to an unprecedented wave of consumer product safety recalls in 2006 and 2007. Since its passage it has significantly improved the way we protect children and has kept them far away from unsafe products. We have successfully rooted out widespread negligence and problematic practices in the development of children's products and toy supply and testing chain. We made huge strides and today we can fully recognize the many successes we have all witnessed along the way. I intend to remain very active and engaged on these issues and look forward to more achievements, as we all continue the work that ensures the safety of our children. And I plan to be here 10 years from now as we celebrate 20 years of this landmark law. Thank you.
08.07.2018	CHICAGO — After a weekend of record violence in Chicago, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) today hosted a roundtable discussion on gun violence with community members and stakeholders at the Gary Comer Youth Center in the Greater Grand Crossing neighborhood. Prior to the roundtable, Rush and Duckworth called for the passage of the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2018 alongside Blair’s father, Ronald Holt. This legislation would prohibit unlicensed gun-ownership and transferring or receiving firearms without a valid firearms license, as well as direct the Attorney General of the United States to establish and maintain a federal record of sale system. Photos of the press conference and round table are available here. “I am sick and tired of the scenes of violence and grief that are constantly taking place over and over again in our schools and neighborhoods. It is past time for action and commonsense solutions. That is why I’m happy to see Senator Duckworth join me in reintroducing Blair’s Bill. Because there is only one common thread across the gun violence epidemic in America — guns,” said Rush. “This past weekend we saw 11 people lose their lives to senseless gun violence, with more than 73 people shot,” Duckworth said at the time. “Our own streets shouldn’t be more deadly than war zones. When will enough be enough?” Rush first introduced this legislation in 2007 and subsequently reintroduced it in 2009, 2013, 2015 and now in 2018 with Duckworth joining him to lead this effort in the Senate. Their bill is named after Blair Holt, a Chicago Julian High School honor student who was gunned down protecting his friend when a gunman opened fire on their ride home from school on a crowded public transit bus. Modeled in part after the Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card (FOID) statute, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2018 would: Protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to unlicensed individuals. Ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms. Restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, children, and other persons prohibited by federal law from receiving firearms. Require universal background checks for all purchases or transfers of firearms. Facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by federal and state law enforcement agencies. "Blair’s murder, like those of so many young souls taken from us way before their time, shows us what type of destruction that a single person with a deadly firearm and a reckless disregard for human life can cause — and that is more than enough reason for us to enact commonsense reforms like those proposed in this bill,” said Rush. ###
08.07.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) delivered the following remarks at a press conference to discuss the Blair Holt Firearm Owner Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2018. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Thank you all for joining us today. Chicagoans, Illinoisans, and Americans across this great nation are demanding that Congress take real action to prevent gun violence and we must address this issue head on and do our part to prevent senseless shooting deaths. The proliferation of and easy access to guns is an issue that impacts every single one of us and touches every corner of America. Like many of you — I am sick and tired of the scenes of violence and grief that are constantly taking place over and over again in our schools and neighborhoods. There have been over 300 homicides in Chicago so far this year and. Based off the fact that, according to the Chicago Tribune, as of August 1, 2018, 1,691 people have been shot, we know the majority of those homicides were the result of gun violence. How much longer will we allow this? This is not normal. This should not continue. It is past time for action and commonsense solutions. We cannot continue to stand by and abdicate our responsibilities to the very communities that depend on us. That is why I’m happy to see Senator Duckworth join me in reintroducing Blair’s Bill. Because there is only one common thread across the gun violence epidemic in America — guns. Attempting to address this problem without addressing — or even acknowledging — that fact is fundamentally wrong. Now this is legislation that I have repeatedly proposed since 2007 to pay tribute to a brave young man, Blair Holt. Blair was a young Chicagoan and Julian High School honor student who was gunned down protecting his friend when a gunman opened fire while they were riding home from school on a crowded CTA bus. Blair’s murder, like those of so many young souls taken from us way before their time, shows us what type of destruction that a single person with a deadly firearm and a reckless disregard for human life can cause. While some may argue that gun control does not work, I would counter that having a nationwide common-sense gun control policy that does what Blair’s Bill mandates would be much more effective in stopping the flow of guns. It would make guns less accessible to criminals, the mentally disturbed, and inexperienced young people than the state-by-state hodgepodge of policies that is currently in effect. In short, it would make sure that those who shouldn’t have guns, don’t. This legislation would prohibit unlicensed gun-ownership and transferring or receiving firearms without a valid firearms license, as well as direct the U.S. Attorney General to establish and maintain a federal record of sale system; similar to how we treat car ownership The cost of gun violence is too high, with human life and suffering that is immeasurable — that is more than enough reason for us to enact commonsense reforms like those proposed in this bill.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) underscored an important new study from the Center for American Progress (CAP). This report details that after a 19-month long concentrated effort — pushed by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans to sabotage Americans’ health care and drive up premiums — hard-working families in every corner of America will now endure skyrocketing new costs. At every opportunity, Washington Republicans are making health care more expensive and are intent on eliminating important protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. They are proving once again that they do not care how many people they hurt in their frenzied obsession with sabotaging health care for millions of Americans. “While Republicans raise Americans’ health costs and hand tax breaks to corporations, I am working every day in calling for bold and transformative action to crack down on drug pricing hikes, fighting for individuals with pre-existing conditions, and ending the effort to push hard-working families into shoddy junk plans,” said Rush. After Republicans single handedly caused premium hikes of an average of 37 percent across the nation in 2018, their reprehensible sabotage campaign is now set to hit Illinois families in 2019. The district-by-district CAP report is staggering and the assault on Americans’ health care will send premium costs through the roof for residents in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois: A family of four will see an annual marketplace premium that is $3,300 higher. A 55-year-old couple will see an annual premium $3,630 higher, on average. An unsubsidized 40-year-old will pay an annual extra $1,040, on average. “Make no mistake: Illinoisans health care will never be safe as long as Republicans control Washington. Democrats know that the American people deserve A Better Deal on health care and I will continue to work with my colleagues on solutions that put the middle-class first and safeguard the health care of those in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and across this great nation.” ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee delivered the following opening remarks at a Subcommittee on Energy hearing on “DOE Modernization: Legislation to Authorize a Pilot Project to Commercialize the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.” Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today examining legislation to authorize a pilot project to commercialize the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, or SPR. As you know, Mr. Chairman, subcommittee staff from both the minority and majority sides worked together on this bipartisan bill and I am pleased to cosponsor this legislation with my good friend and colleague, Joe Barton of Texas. Mr. Chairman, since the inception of the SPR, which was established as a result of the oil shortages of the 1970’s, the energy portfolio of the U.S. has changed dramatically. In fact, the U.S. is expected to go from a heavy importer of foreign oil, to become the global leader in oil exports by as early as next year, according to the International Energy Agency, or IEA. As a result of these shifting dynamics, it is important for policymakers, including Members of this Subcommittee, to examine important questions, including if there is still a need for the SPR, and if so, how large should it be and how should it be configured. It is my hope, Mr. Chairman, that the pilot program outlined in this bill will help inform our decisions moving forward regarding the feasibility of leasing out all or part of the SPR to the private sector or to foreign governments that do not pose a national security risk. As we will discuss today, Congressionally-mandated sales of SPR oil has provided an opportunity to potentially lease the subsequent unused space to private companies and/or foreign governments as a way to maximize taxpayers’ return on investment. Mr. Chairman, I am also pleased that we have representatives from both the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Government Accounting Office (GAO) here today, among other witnesses, as both agencies have issued reports to help guide our decision-making on matters regarding the SPR. Unfortunately, there appears to be some discrepancies between the two agencies over the final recommendations that GAO made in its May report entitled: “STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE: DOE Needs to Strengthen Its Approach to Planning the Future of the Emergency Stockpile.” First, Mr. Chairman, DOE appears to concur with GAO’s recommendations to supplement its 2016 review by conducting additional analysis regarding the objectives and purpose of the SPR, taking into account additional factors such as market projections and private sector response. DOE also agreed with GAO’s recommendation to periodically reexamine the size of the SPR, with analysis looking at the costs and benefits of the SPR for a variety of different sizes. DOE also appears to concur with GAO’s findings that the agency considers options for the long-term configuration of the SPR, after the impact of Congressionally-mandated sales of SPR oil are taken into account. Based on the testimony, it appears that some of these recommendations will be included as part of DOE’s SPR Post-Sale Configuration Study, expected to be completed in October of this year. The largest area of disagreement, however, appears to be over GAO’s recommendation that DOE conduct a cost/benefit analysis of establishing regional product reserves around the country in areas that have been identified as vulnerable to fuel supply disruptions. Mr. Chairman, now that we have representatives from both agencies here with us today, I look forward to engaging all of our witnesses in order to have a better understanding of the direction Congress should be moving as we make decisions regarding the size, scope, and makeup of the SPR moving forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time…
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement opposing the House Republicans’ cynical and desperate immigration stunt: “My vote today against H.Res.990 was not a vote against the hard-working men and women of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement but against the meanspirited and cruel way the Trump Administration is choosing to use this agency to divide America and push an anti-immigrant and racist agenda. I refuse to participate in this desperate political stunt while children are still separated from their families. “Today’s episode is just another example of the lack of leadership and constructive ideas missing from House Republicans, as well as their obsession with appeasing this dishonorable President. “House Republicans brought this bill to the floor to distract from their complicit behavior and lack of oversight of the Trump Administration’s since-abandoned family separation policy that literally ripped children from the arms of their parents. “When Washington Republicans are ready to get serious about our nation’s immigration polices, they should meet with Democrats so we can tackle this important issue in a meaningful way. Until then, I will continue to reject the Republican attacks on vulnerable children, families, and our nation’s most sacred values. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee delivered the following opening remarks at a Subcommittee on Energy hearing on “Powering America: The Role of Energy Storage in the Nation’s Electricity System:” Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this critical and timely hearing. Mr. Chairman, as we have discussed throughout this Powering America series of hearings, the domestic energy landscape is changing drastically in fundamental ways. As we move towards a more decentralized, decarbonized energy economy, storage offers tremendous opportunities to integrate cleaner, renewable energy resources in order to build a more efficient, resilient, and effective electric grid. Mr. Chairman, with the evolution of battery technology, in addition to decreased production costs, energy storage offers a uniquely flexible technology that can be utilized to meet the changing demands of customers, of utilities, as well as of the grid as a whole. Energy storage is distinctive in that it provides consumers more control over when and how they use energy, while also helping them save money. Mr. Chairman, with storage technology, utilities are able to defer, or even completely avoid making huge investments in other, more costly, physical assets such as wires, poles, transformers and substations, while still meeting the needs of energy consumers. Additionally, Mr. Chairman, energy storage can help make the grid more resilient during severe weather events and provide emergency power during times of disaster. Storage technology can play a vital role in rebuilding electric networks that serve local communities, as a cost-effective alternative to other traditional options. This is true whether it be for establishing power for rural or isolated communities, or helping to quickly turn the lights back on for residents of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands after a disastrous hurricane like Maria. In fact, this technology can be used to establish microgrids and mini-grids, or it can be utilized in fully distributed generation networks. Mr. Chairman, even with all of these tremendous benefits that energy storage offers, there are still significant obstacles impeding the emergence of this budding industry, including economic, regulatory and market barriers. There must be a strategic and calculated effort by the federal government in order to fully develop this technology and appreciate its enormous benefits. Specifically, there must be more federal funding to help offset the lack of investment from the private sector in electricity storage research, development, and demonstration. Additionally, we must consider developing a federal energy storage roadmap, similar to those established by some states, in order to increase coordination among the various private initiatives, the national labs, and other federal agencies. Finally, Mr. Chairman, while FERC Order 841 was issued to ensure fair and equal access for storage resources to compete in wholesale power markets, we must go even further on the federal level. In each of their testimonies, almost all of the witnesses agreed that we must do more to remove barriers to grid and market access, allow storage to compete in all planning and procurement processes, and provide appropriate value and compensation for the unique flexibility that storage technologies provide. Mr. Chairman, energy storage has the potential to fundamentally transform the way we produce and use electricity in a way that benefits the country as a whole, but we must be willing to make the necessary commitment and investment in this technology for it to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time… ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement regarding the indictment of 12 Russian Intelligence Officers charged with hacking the Democratic National Committee (DNC) in a concerted effort to interfere in the 2016 presidential election: “Yesterday, Congressional Republicans spent nine hours in a joint hearing by the Judiciary and Oversight Committees desperately trying to undermine the integrity of not only the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but the credibility and importance of the Special Counsel investigation led by Robert Mueller — only to find out hours later that Russian Intelligence Officers were behind one of the most audacious, destructive, and disruptive attacks on our democracy. “It is now clear that President Putin and the Russian intelligence apparatus were behind the hacking of the DNC, which sought to sow discord in our political system, divide the country, and — ultimately — guarantee Donald Trump’s victory. “America continues to face one of the greatest national security threats of our generation. Given that President Trump is scheduled to meet with President Putin in Helsinki, Finland on Monday, that should be the time that President Trump finally holds President Putin’s feet to the fire by calling him out, condemning his destructive actions, and punishing the Russian government for their deliberate, premeditated, and successful attempt to interference in our democracy. “It’s sad that I must even comment on this but, for the record, the Special Counsel probe is not a witch hunt.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) along with Representatives Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Peter J. Roskam (R-Ill.), Mike Quigley (D-Ill.), Bill Foster (D-Ill.), Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), and Bradley S. Schneider (D-Ill.) sent a letter to Cook County Forest Preserve District Board President Tony Preckwinkle pushing for assurance that the type of behavior displayed by former Cook County Forest Preserve officer Patrick Connor does not happen again. “Like many Cook County residents and Americans across the country I was sickened by the racist behavior displayed by Timothy Trybus, who showed a level of incivility, ignorance, and intolerance that unfortunately still permeates in our nation. In addition to the gross injustice exhibited by Mr. Trybus, I was disheartened to see that this woman’s request for assistance by an officer was completely ignored. That is completely unacceptable and can never happen again. What message does this send to Cook County residents to see an officer derelict in their duty?” said Rush. “We must take the necessary steps to ensure officers have proper training and are fulfilling their duty to serve and protect and I hope that Mr. Connor remembers the words of Desmond Tutu, ‘If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor.’” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement regarding news that the U.S. Department of Justice has reopened the federal investigation into the horrific and racially motivated killing of Emmett Till: “The horrific circumstances surrounding the murder of Emmett Till have always been of great personal interest to me, particularly because Emmett’s mother, Mamie Till — a true and dedicated friend, a courageous civil rights leader in her own acts of commitment, and a particular asset to our nation’s children — was a longtime resident of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, which also serves as Emmett’s final resting place. “Last year, I called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to reopen this case in light of new information that was revealed. I am glad to see the federal government following through on this request. This case is not only critically important for the role it played in sparking the Civil Rights movement, but so that Emmett and his family receive the justice that is owed to them. It is vital that everyone — both victims and perpetrators — knows that heinous crimes of this nature will never go unpunished. “Righting the wrongs of history for some of the most egregious and disgraceful incidents we’ve experienced is why I introduced H.R. 1272, the “Cold Case Record Collections Act of 2017”. It is important for the families and communities affected by these horrific crimes — and also, to correct the national record — to help bring justice and closure to unsolved cases from the Civil Rights Era. I am especially pleased that Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.), this week, introduced companion legislation to my bill in the U.S. Senate. “Emmett Till’s murder is a constant reminder of the violence and hatred espoused by a significant number of the majority for the African-American community. Even today, the crime that he was a victim of, lynching, is still not illegal under federal law. As recent events have shown, the vitriol and animus that existed in that era has not faded away. That is why I introduced H.R. 6086, a bill that would establish lynching as a criminal violation of the U.S. Code and I am glad to see that Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) has introduced the companion to my bill in the U.S. Senate. “It is clear from the events in a Cook County Forest Preserve that were reported this week, that intolerance and animosity towards communities of color continue to plague our society. Without addressing the sins of our past, we will never achieve the understanding we need to truly achieve the reconciliation that will allow us to move forward.” ###
07.05.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Democratic Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee released the following statement regarding United States Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s long overdue resignation: “Scott Pruitt’s entire tenure at the EPA has been nothing short of a catastrophe. His scandalous and harmful reign has been mired in secrecy, lies, and corruption. Pruitt spent the majority of his time maintaining a luxurious lifestyle on the taxpayers’ dime. He proposed and implemented drastic and disastrous policies that continue to harm American’s public health and our environment. He put the needs of himself and his political cronies ahead of American families. Scott Pruitt will go down in history as one of the most corrupt, greedy, and selfish cabinet members of any Administration. He leaves behind a trail of polices that ultimately harm hardworking Americans that will take decades to undo. I am pleased to see him and his tactical pants exit the EPA. Good riddance.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement expressing his disappointment in the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31 which weakens labor unions to the benefit of billionaires and corporations: “This decision is the result of a concerted and corrupt effort by the wealthy and well-connected to divide hardworking people and make it more difficult for them to stand together as a union. Today’s ruling will do nothing but perpetuate a rigged economy that reduces the opportunities available to working-class Americans. “I am appalled by this decision that upends over four decades of labor precedent and alters the freedoms and benefits that workers have enjoyed by collectively joining together and negotiating for better pay, better jobs, and — ultimately — a better future. “While the Supreme Court has, once again, sided with the billionaire class and corporate CEOs, I continue to stand in steadfast support of the working men and women of our country and those in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and completely support the freedom to join together for the good, union jobs our communities need. “Unions have defined and built the America we know today. We should be working day and night to protect and improve the lives of all workers — whether or not they are members of a union. The work unions have done in organizing has ultimately raised wages, guaranteed access to healthcare, and strengthened our communities. “It was fifty years ago that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. stood with striking Memphis sanitation workers demanding the freedom to join unions the night before he was killed. As he told the crowd that night, ‘Freedom is not something that is voluntarily given by the oppressor. It is something that must be demanded by the oppressed.’ “I want my constituents to know that I take that message to heart and I remain resolute in my commitment to fight for the needs of working Americans.” ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement condemning the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Trump v. Hawaii to uphold Trump’s disgraceful, racist, and discriminatory Muslim Ban: “This is a sad day for America and it smears our nation’s reputation as a welcoming and tolerant society far and wide. I am deeply disappointed that the U.S. Supreme Court has, once again, fully and completely endorsed discrimination. History will look back on this day with shame and it will join other reprehensible decisions, such as Dred Scott v. Sanford and Korematsu v. United States. “Despite the racism coming from the White House, Americans — and the world — should know that religious freedom remains a fundamental right and a major component of the core values in our nation and we must not allow anyone or any court from tearing apart that central American creed. “To Muslims around the globe, know this: You are welcome here and are respected. To our Muslim-American family, friends, neighbors, and communities: You are very much a part of our shared American story and I am saddened by this decision that puts the religious liberty of all Americans at risk. This decision will do nothing but push us further down the path of injustice and intolerance.” “I call on the American people to hold this dishonorable Administration accountable and I call on my Congressional colleagues to finally exercise our authority as a coequal branch of government and act as a check on these antagonistic attacks on religious freedom. Since the courts refuse to act, we must.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks at the “Nuclear Bills Markup.” Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Mr. Chairman, before I get into the suite of nuclear bills before us today, I just want to reiterate my position that I touched on in yesterday’s hearing. "As I mentioned, Ranking Member Pallone and I, along with all 24 Democratic Members of the full Committee sent a letter to Chairman Walden and Health Subcommittee Chairman Burgess yesterday, requesting an immediate hearing on the Trump Administration’s misguided policy of separating immigrant children from their parents at the southern border. "While the President may have suddenly shifted his stance and signed an Executive Order undoing this abominable policy for the time being, who knows when he might change his mind on a whim and reverse himself once again. "Mr. Chairman, it is critical that we hear from key Administration officials on how this loathsome policy came about. "More importantly, as elected representatives, we need answers on how many of these children were ripped from their parents, where are all of these children now, and what is the Administration’s procedure for ensuring that all of these babies will indeed be reunited with their parents. "Mr. Chairman, this is an issue that is of utmost concern to many, if not all Americans, regardless of their political leanings or religious affiliations, so I hope that we can schedule this hearing sooner rather than later. "With that being said, Mr. Chairman, as I stated in the hearing on these four nuclear bills, it is my desire that we can work with the majority side to attempt to find consensus so that these bills are forwarded out of the full Committee with bipartisan support. "I support the discussion draft, authored by Rep. Flores of Texas, which would simply direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a program to support the availability of high-assay low enriched uranium, or HA-LEU, for commercial use. "I also support the discussion draft authored by a group of bipartisan Members, including two from this Subcommittee, Mr. Hudson of North Carolina and Mr. Peters of California. "This bill would require the Secretary of Energy to develop a report on a pilot program to site, construct, and operate micro-reactors at critical national security locations. "Mr. Chairman, I am also inclined to support some of the objectives of HR 1320. "This bill would amend the NRC’s fee recovery process associated with the advanced reactor regulatory framework, while also limiting the total funds available for corporate support costs, and capping fees on operating reactors. "I understand that there have been some minor changes to the bill under the Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute. "I look forward to meeting with various stakeholders over the next week or so to better understand the consequences of enacting the changes that this bill proposes. "Finally, Mr. Chairman, the most problematic bill for me is the Advancing U.S. Civil Nuclear Competitiveness and Jobs Act. "This bill would, among other things, revise DOE’s review of the Part 810 process by expediting procedures for transferring civilian nuclear technology, including to foreign powers. "Mr. Chairman, I can tell you that I have even less confidence in the Trump Administration today then I had a few weeks ago when we held a hearing on this bill so I do not see the wisdom in moving this bill forward at this time. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement announcing his intention to oppose the Ryan and Goodlatte immigration bills: “There is no way in good conscience that I will vote for a bill that includes every anti-immigrant wish list item that has been proposed by this incompetent Administration. Both bills fail to provide real protection for Dreamers, dramatically limit annual legal immigration, dismantle legal family-based immigration, greatly restrict access to asylum, and attack welcoming communities, including the City of Chicago and the State of Illinois. “Let’s be clear, this bill is not a compromise. In fact, House Republicans — led by their fundamentally inept President — are only making things worse with their continued unwillingness to work with Democrats on common sense legislation that has broad bipartisan support. “This group of Washington Republicans will do anything to advance their anti-immigrant agenda, even if that means separating children from their families as leverage to pay for a wall that Trump said Mexico would pay for. “The Ryan and Goodlatte bills are extortion and I refuse to play this partisan political game with Congressional Republicans and a divisive, cruel, and ineffectual President. For these reasons, I will vote NO on these bills.” ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the unanimous House passage of his amendment to H.R. 5797, the IMD CARE Act, which addresses a longstanding and discriminatory gap in coverage and expands treatment options for those suffering from crack addiction. The Rush Amendment expands the bill to include those individuals suffering from cocaine use disorder and explicitly clarifies the inclusion of cocaine base — more commonly known as crack cocaine — which, along with opioids, have wrecked communities across the nation. “With the passage of my amendment we have finally taken a historic bipartisan step in providing relief to those who have been addicted to crack. For too long, these individuals have been ignored and denied access to treatment. Finally, today, we have stopped leaving black and brown Americans behind and instead, have decided to fight against addictions and the injustices that continue to tear our communities apart. No matter whether they are living on the South Side or in the Southwest Suburbs, whether they are addicted to crack or to opioids, when this bill becomes law, people across my district will be able to access treatment on an equal footing.” said Rush. # # #
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) slammed the Trump Administration’s cruel and inhumane family separation policy in his opening statement at the Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on “The Benefits of Tax Reform on the Energy Sector and Consumers.” Below are Rush’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Chairman, tax reform is an interesting topic for an Energy Subcommittee hearing, considering we do not have jurisdiction over tax policy. “Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, I cannot sit here as if this is business as usual when we have a tragedy taking place as we speak at our southern border. “If we are going to deviate in this hearing from issues actually related to our jurisdiction, then I believe this time would be better served speaking up and speaking out against the Trump Administration’s mean-spirited, racist, and immoral new policy of separating immigrant children from their parents. “Mr. Chairman, this new policy is a blatant attempt to use these innocent young children as pawns in the President’s sick and twisted political game for getting what he wants in regards to immigration policy. “The fact of the matter is that Republicans control every branch of the government and they should be able to govern and enact policy that reflects their core values. “Ripping young children away from their parents in order to exhort money for a wall is both evil and inhumane and, it is about time that Members of the Republican Party stand up to the entitled blowhard currently occupying the White House. “The silence by so many Republican Members of Congress, in light of so many misguided, asinine, and un-American decisions by this Administration is both shameful and telling. “The fact of the matter is that either my Republican colleagues endorse and agree with this policy of separating families at the border for political gain. “Or they have decided that their political futures are more important than the character and reputation of our great nation. “Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Pallone and I, along with many of our Democratic colleagues, will be sending Chairman Walden and Health Subcommittee Chairman Burgess, a letter later today requesting a hearing as soon as possible to address this issue. “We need to examine how many of these children have been forcibly separated from their parents and forced into custody of the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Settlement. “We also need to examine what type of damage and severe trauma these children are being subjected to, stemming from this sinister and cynical policy of snatching them from their parents and rounding them up into cages at such an early age. “As the Irish philosopher and father of modern conservatism once stated: “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.” “Mr. Chairman, we are at a pivotal time in our history and we can no longer afford for good men to sit back, shake their heads, and whisper about wrongdoing privately behind the scenes. “No, now is the time for Congress to grow a spine and reclaim our Constitutional duty as an equal and separate branch of government ready and able to serve as a check to a President who has seemingly gone mad. “Proverbs 29:2: “When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; But when a wicked man rules, the people groan.” “Mr. Chairman, if not now, when, if not us, then who will speak out against evil? “I can assure you that this will not be the last time this issue comes up during business before this Subcommittee and I urge all of my Republican colleagues to finally make their voices heard so we can truly represent the will and spirit of the American people. “As Alexander de Tocqueville once observed: “America is great because she is good. If America ceases to be good, America will cease to be great.” “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” Today, I slammed the Trump Administration’s cruel and inhumane family separation policy in my opening statement at the Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on “The Benefits of Tax Reform on the Energy Sector and Consumers.” #KeepFamilesTogether #FamiliesBelongTogether pic.twitter.com/VCiRGdvfMX — Bobby L. Rush (@RepBobbyRush) June 20, 2018 ###
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in response to the deplorable and despicable situation taking place at Wentworth Rehabilitation and Health Care Center, which have been reported by the Chicago Tribune: “I was shocked to read about the callous disregard demonstrated for our poor and vulnerable seniors taking place at Wentworth Rehabilitation and Health Care Center. These allegations of abuse, neglect, and carelessness must not go unpunished and I am calling on Alden Management Services, who operate Wentworth, to shut it down. “This nursing facility is in my district and those who have been affected by this reprehensible behavior deserve better — this should not be happening here, this is America. “I have sent letters to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) about this situation. My letter to CMS demands information regarding why Wentworth was allowed to continue their reckless behavior and request that CMS terminate funding for this egregiously operated facility. “My letter to the FTC requests that they begin an investigation into their deceptive and misleading advertising. This facility has an overall rating of one out of five stars, the lowest possible score but on their website, they boast a four-star quality rating. “I will not stand for any nefarious actors who prey on the most vulnerable members of our society — we should be protecting those individuals and ensuring that they are cared for and treated with dignity. This entire situation has been a catastrophe and we must right this wrong.” # # #
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced legislation (H.R. 6086) to finally establish lynching as a federal criminal offense. This bill, cosponsored by 35 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, would amend the United States Code to specify that lynching is a crime in itself that would warrant an enhanced sentence under hate crimes statutes. “Lynching has never been classified as a federal crime, despite the many attempts over the years. While many may argue that lynching has been relegated to history, you only need to look at the events in Charlottesville last year to be reminded that the racist and hateful sentiments that spurred these abhorrent crimes are still prevalent in today’s American society,” said Rush. Congressman Leonidas C. Dyer (R-Mo.) was the first to introduce an anti-lynching bill in 1918. His bill, intended to punish authorities that failed to prevent lynching, was designed to act as a deterrent that would end the practice. His bill ultimately died in the Senate after facing stiff opposition. “Before legislative action occurred, trailblazing women who, with the backing of the NAACP, led the Anti-Lynching Crusaders. They challenged the horrific, despicable, and racist practice of lynching, which ignited their activism,” said Rush. African-American women stood at the forefront of public protest of these racially motivated, inhumane, and evil crimes. It is important that we finish their and Congressman Dyer’s work and that we rewrite the wrongs of history and pass federal anti-lynching legislation.” Congressional Black Caucus members cosponsoring this legislation include Representatives Danny K. Davis (Ill.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (District of Columbia), Maxine Waters (Calif.), Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (Ga.), James E. Clyburn (S.C.), Alcee L. Hastings (Fla.), Eddie Bernice Johnson (Texas), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (Va.), Bennie G. Thompson (Mich.), Sheila Jackson Lee (Texas), Gregory W. Meeks (N.Y.), Barbara Lee (Calif.), William "Lacy" Clay Jr. (Mo.), David Scott (Ga.), G.K. Butterfield (N.C.), Emanuel Cleaver (Mo.), Gwen Moore (Wis.), Yvette D. Clarke (N.Y.), Keith Ellison (Minn.), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (Ga.), André Carson (Ind.), Marcia L. Fudge (Ohio), Karen Bass (Calif.), Cedric Richmond (La.), Terri A. Sewell (Ala.), Frederica Wilson (Fla.), Donald Payne Jr. (N.J.), Joyce Beatty (Ohio), Hakeem Jeffries (N.Y.), Alma Adams (N.C.), Brenda Lawrence (Mich.), Bonnie Watson Coleman (N.J.), Dwight Evans (Pa.), Anthony Brown (Md.), and Val Demings (Fla.) ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s 5–4 ruling to uphold Ohio’s voter suppression policy: “This ruling is both egregious and regressive and a major slap in the face to the people of Ohio who simply want to exercise their right to vote. “The court’s decision will undoubtedly have a damaging effect around the country and will be the catalyst that leads to systematic disenfranchisement, which has historically harmed communities of color, vulnerable members of society, and young people. “It is deeply troubling to see the court being used as a tool to suppress voters and even more startling that the President praised this decision. Elected officials should be defending our democratic process and fighting to ensure that all Americans have the right to vote and access to the ballot without any barriers. “From day one, the Trump Administration has sought to dismantle voting rights but I remain steadfast in my commitment to protect our fundamental Constitutional rights.” # # #
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) slammed Republicans’ attacks on health insurance protections for people with pre-existing conditions, as the Trump Administration argued in court that the Affordable Care Act’s provisions preventing insurance companies from denying coverage or charging more for pre-existing conditions should be struck down. According to the Center for American Progress, loss of these protections would impact the approximately 5,471,600 Illinoisans who have pre-existing conditions. “It has become increasingly clear that Republicans in Washington will do anything to deliberately destroy the health coverage of people with pre-existing conditions,” said Rush. “House Republicans tried to take away these protections in their failed and cruel Trumpcare proposal, and now the Trump Justice Department is willing to threaten hardworking families’ healthcare once again. Their actions are not only callous but irresponsible.” “If Trump and his Washington Republican cronies get their way, pregnant women and Illinoisans with asthma, arthritis, cancer, depression, diabetes, or other pre-existing conditions will be left with uncertainty and face higher healthcare costs and shoddier coverage,” Rush continued. “The American people deserve better than this cynical attempt to deliberately sabotage the Affordable Care Act. Additionally, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, provisions of the GOP tax scam for the rich and well-connected that is collapsing under the weight of public opinion, will spike premiums by an average of 15 percent for Americans purchasing insurance on the individual market and push another 3 million off their coverage altogether. “My constituents in the 1st Congressional District and everyone throughout Illinois and the country have had enough of being targeted by a spiteful group of Washington Republicans working to undermine affordable health care and drive up families’ premiums,” said Rush. “I am proud to fight alongside my Democratic colleagues to protect Americans’ health care, lower their costs, and rise above these challenges to offer A Better Deal.” # # #
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the “Improving the Hydropower Licensing Process” Hearing: Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding today’s hearing on improving the hydropower licensing process. "Although, I must admit that this hearing would have been even more helpful if it had occurred before this Subcommittee passed legislation making sweeping changes to the licensing process, such as HR 3043 last year. "Mr. Chairman, as we have previously discussed on many occasions, hydropower is supported by Members on both sides of the aisle. "However, the process for how we license these projects is too important for us to get it wrong by making changes that could lead to negative unintended consequences. "After all, we must remember that hydroelectric licenses can span between 30-50 years, and under existing law a license holder can be granted automatic yearly extensions in perpetuity without ever even having to re-apply. "Mr. Chairman, any potential changes to this process must include a balanced approach that protects the rights of Federal resource agencies, States, and Native Tribes to impose conditions in accordance with modern environmental laws. "As you may remember, Mr. Chairman, I offered such an approach in the form of an Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute to HR 3043 on the Floor of the House last December. "While that amendment was defeated, I continue to urge the majority to work with our side to address this issue in a bipartisan manner if we are to truly enact legislation that can pass both chambers of Congress and truly help improve the licensing process. "Mr. Chairman, I remain very leery of supporting any approach that would make FERC the lead agency over the licensing process and would require Native Tribes, the States, and federal resource agencies to pay deference to the Commission. "This is especially true when it comes to matters where FERC has absolutely no expertise or statutory authority, including on issues regarding agricultural water use, drinking water protection, fisheries management, and recreational river use. "Additionally, Mr. Chairman, in past testimony before this Subcommittee we have heard repeatedly that a major cause for licensing delays was due to incomplete applications that do not include all the pertinent information necessary to issue a final decision. "While none of the bills previously passed out of this Subcommittee have done anything to address this issue, the minority side has offered an approach that would address this critical concern. "In the amendment that I offered during Floor debate of HR 3043, FERC and the other federal resource agencies would be directed to convene a negotiated rulemaking with all stakeholders, including State and local government representatives, as well as Native tribes. "These stakeholders would then collaboratively develop a process to coordinate all necessary Federal authorizations and enable the Commission to make a final decision on a license not later than 3 years of receiving a completed license application. "Mr. Chairman, I will continue to oppose any modifications to the process that would give priority of our public waterways to industry, over and above the rights and interests of Native Tribes, farmers, fishermen, boaters, and other stakeholders who also rely on our public rivers and streams. "I look forward to engaging today’s panelists on the best way forward to improving this process in a fair, balanced, and transparent manner and with that I yield back the remainder of my time." ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) introduced the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2018. This legislation would prohibit unlicensed gun-ownership and transferring or receiving firearms without a valid firearms license, as well as direct the Attorney General to establish and maintain a federal record of sale system. Rush first introduced this legislation in 2007 and subsequently reintroduced it in 2009 and 2013. This bill is named after Blair Holt, a Chicago Julian High School honor student who was gunned down protecting his friend when a gunman opened fire while they were riding home from school on a crowded public transit bus. “Americans are demanding that Congress take real action to prevent gun violence and we must address this issue head on and do our part to prevent the senseless mass killings and shooting deaths in cities across this nation,” said Rush. “I am grateful that Senator Duckworth has joined in this tireless effort to provide commonsense solutions to the epidemic of gun violence plaguing America. We cannot continue to stand by and abdicate our responsibilities to the very communities that depend on us,” said Rush. “People are dying and Congress has not only the power, but also the duty to act by passing common-sense solutions like this one that would help prevent firearms from falling into the wrong hands,” Duckworth said. “We owe it to the countless and growing number of firearm violence victims to take action. I don’t want my daughters to have to grow up in a country that won’t protect them from firearm violence, which is why I’m proud to join Congressman Rush in this effort and we will keep pushing until all of America’s children are safe.” Modeled in part after the Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card (FOID) statute, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2018 would: Protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to unlicensed individuals. Ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms. Restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, children, and other persons prohibited by federal law from receiving firearms. Require universal background checks for all purchases or transfers of firearms. Facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by federal and state law enforcement agencies. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 315 people are shot with a gun every day in the United States. Of those injured, 93 people die. “We must use all available resources to immediately tackle this gun violence epidemic and this legislation aims to do just that. The cost of gun violence is too high, with human life and suffering that is immeasurable — that is more than enough reason for us to enact commonsense reforms like those proposed in this bill,” said Rush. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-N.Y.), released the following joint statement on President Trump’s nomination of Geoffrey Starks to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to replace outgoing FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn: “We congratulate Geoffrey Starks on his nomination to the Federal Communications Commission. He is an eminently qualified and highly accomplished public servant who, once confirmed, will continue Commissioner Clyburn’s legacy of protecting consumers, giving a voice to the most vulnerable, and holding wrongdoers accountable. We are pleased that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer considered and valued our recommendation of Mr. Starks. As members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we are confident that Mr. Starks will be a strong voice on critical issues before the Commission, particularly those impacting our most vulnerable communities and communities of color. We call on the Senate to confirm Mr. Starks without delay.” Background: The Federal Communications Commission is comprised of five commissioners, each of whom serve five-year terms, and are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. US law requires a 3-2 split in which there are three commissioners from the majority party and two commissioners from the minority party. Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel currently fills the other Democratic seat on the Commission. ###
05.31.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), delivered the following remarks today at the Housing Authority of Cook County groundbreaking of Juniper Towers, one of five sites benefiting from a $75 million investment to rehabilitate affordable housing throughout the south suburbs. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Good morning "I would like to thank the Housing Authority of Cook County for their commitment in working on behalf of our most vulnerable communities in Cook County. Their bold vision to improve affordable housing infrastructure should be a model for every community to follow. "It is also great to be in the company of: Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle Department of Urban and Housing Development Regional Administrator Joseph Galvan Illinois Housing Development Authority Executive Director Audra Hamernik Mayor of Park Forest John Ostenburg And my friend, Richard Monocchio, Executive Director for the Housing Authority of Cook County. "Together, we are united by a commitment to ensure that affordable housing properties remain up to date and accessible. We are also fulfilling our promise to invest in people and communities. "This investment is both audacious and innovative because this project will not only improve infrastructure in the south suburbs but it will also improve the lives of residents. "In Robbins, residents will be offered workforce development training, education, and job opportunities. "The prospect for economic mobility cannot be overlooked and I am glad that this project tackles some of the hurdles those in disenfranchised communities face. "I have always believed that if we create robust opportunity, we can give people and communities a fighting chance. "But we must make investing in them a top priority because that is the first step toward transformational change. "These improvements will undoubtedly better serve south suburban residents, many of whom are my constituents. "Again, I would like to thank all those who made this project happen. "This is another great example of what we can do when federal and local officials, and the private sector work together to invest in communities that will ultimately enhance the quality of life for those who need it most." ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 5682, FIRST STEP Act: “The FIRST STEP Act does not address our most pressing issues as they relate to criminal justice reform and does not bring on the significant changes we so desperately need. “I am deeply troubled that this legislation gives too much discretion to an already problematic Attorney General who has spent his beleaguered tenure undoing America’s criminal justice progress and gives too much leeway to Bureau of Prisons officials who have the power to make arbitrary decisions. “The Risk Assessment System laid out in this bill would severely deepen the already devastating racial and socioeconomic disparities in our prison system. “The most glaring issue with this legislation is that it excludes those populations who would benefit the most. Leaving out entire groups continues to undermine our attempts to undo the very criminal justice system that saw so many communities of color put behind bars. That said any undertaking of criminal justice reform must include sentencing reform. “It should be noted that this legislation gives the illusion of giving those in custody a second chance but, too many are simply left out. For these reasons, I voted NO. “We must resist the temptation of supporting legislation that appears to reform our broken system and work to pass comprehensive legislation that would be bring about meaningful change.” ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the “DOE Modernization: Legislation Addressing Development, Regulation, and Competitiveness of Advanced Nuclear Energy Technologies” Hearing: "I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today on legislation addressing the development, regulation, and competitiveness of advanced nuclear technologies. Mr. Chairman, as I have stated many times before, I subscribe to an all-of-the-above energy portfolio, even as we move towards a low-carbon energy economy. "I have also stated on many occasions that I believe nuclear energy must play a vital role as a source of safe, reliable, low-carbon power that can help us meet both the energy and environmental needs of the 21st Century. "Mr. Chairman, I look forward to working with the majority as we proceed through regular order and I believe we may be able to come to a strong bipartisan agreement on most, if not all of those bills. "Today, I support the discussion draft, authored by Rep. Flores of Texas, which would simply direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a program to support the availability of high-assay low enriched uranium, or HA-LEU, for commercial use. "We have learned that there are several companies looking to design and license advanced nuclear reactor technologies utilizing uranium-235 isotopes enriched at levels greater than five percent and less than 20 percent. "Some of these companies identified significant challenges associated with accessing HA-LEU and I believe Mr. Flores’s discussion draft would address some of these concerns and make HA-LEU more accessible with the right safeguards. "I also support the discussion draft authored by a group of bipartisan Members, including two from this Subcommittee, Mr. Hudson of North Carolina and Mr. Peters of California. "This bill would require the Secretary of Energy to develop a report on a pilot program to site, construct, and operate micro-reactors at critical national security locations. "Mr. Chairman, I am also inclined to support some of the objectives of HR 1320, which would amend the NRC’s fee recovery process associated with the advanced reactor regulatory framework, while also limiting the total funds available for corporate support costs, and capping fees on operating reactors. "However, I have some concerns regarding the bills’ provision potentially repealing licensing restrictions to foreign governments. "I also want to better understand the implications of repealing requirements for mandatory hearings, while also implementing specific timelines to review final environmental impact statements and how that might impact public input. "Finally, Mr. Chairman, I also look forward to engaging today’s witnesses on the discussion draft sponsored by Mr. Johnson of Ohio. "This bill would, among other things, revise DOE’s review of the Part 810 process by expediting procedures for transferring civilian nuclear technology, including to foreign powers. "Mr. Chairman, this proposal comes against the backdrop of the current Administration’s decision to renege on the U.S. commitment in the Iran Deal, while also moving forward on potential talks with "North Korea’s volatile dictator on denuclearization issues. "So, I look forward to engaging today’s distinguished panelists on both the timing and necessity of this legislation, as well as identifying possible unintended consequences. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time."
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) signed the bipartisan discharge petition to force a long-overdue vote on the House Floor to protect America’s Dreamers. “It is important to remember that DACA participants were brought to the United States through no fault of their own and have been done everything to contribute to our nation. It is unconscionable that there continues to be such mean-spirited fear mongering, and partisan rancor that keeps the future of these individuals in limbo. I am proud to side with my colleagues in taking the necessary steps to provide certainty to Dreamers in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and around the country.” Americans overwhelmingly support Congress passing the DREAM Act, as do corporations, faith-based, and law enforcement communities. Recent polling shows that, for Dreamers: • 84 percent of Americans support a pathway to citizenship or permanent status; • 88 percent of Independents back a pathway to citizenship or permanent status; and • 70 percent of Republicans back either citizenship or permanent status. This discharge petition would force a long-overdue House vote on bills that protects Dreamers, including the bipartisan “Dream Act of 2017” and the bipartisan Hurd–Aguilar “USA Act of 2018.” The proposal receiving the most votes on the Floor would be adopted, under a “queen-of-the-hill” procedure. “It is clear the DREAM Act will pass overwhelmingly if brought to the Floor. We must end this obstructionist behavior once and for all and provide help and hope to the Dreamers counting on DACA to protect their futures. We are on the brink of these votes becoming a reality. I encourage my colleagues, Democrat and Republican, to join me in this effort and show the American people that, when we work together, we can get things done.” ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the House Republican’s failed Farm Bill: “Instead of working together in a bipartisan fashion to strengthen programs for hungry families and tackle the unique challenges facing America’s family farms, the GOP played partisan politics by trying to push through a bill that would steal food from the hungry, leave rural communities behind, and reduce $23 billion in SNAP benefits that children, seniors, students, 1.5 million veterans, 23,000 servicemembers, individuals with disabilities, and working families rely on. “Once again, we are reminded that House Republicans lack leadership and competence. After they passed their GOP tax scam that gave away millions to the wealthy and well-connected their next target was families struggling to make ends meet. “It remains appalling that House Republicans disregarded the destructive nature of this Farm Bill and were willing to give Speaker Ryan one last shot at taking food from the most vulnerable Americans. “I am proud that I voted NO on this failed bill. My vote represents the feedback I received from the hard-working families in my district and those in every corner of our nation. I hope every American can see that House Republicans have no problem supporting cruel and damaging legislation such as the farm bill that would have left them cold and hungry. Now, more than ever, we must find a bipartisan solution to this impasse.” ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent letters to CEOs of Airbnb (Brian Chesky), Fitbit (James Park), Google (Sundar Pichai), Lyft (Logan Green), Snapchat (Evan Spiegel), Twitter (Jack Dorsey), and Uber (Dara Khosrowshahi) requesting them to specify what changes, if any, they will be making to ensure their users’ privacy considering the upcoming implementation of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). “These companies, which represent some of our nation’s most innovative and trailblazing online social networking, fitness, and travel and transportation companies, touch the lives of nearly all Americans. Therefore, it is critical that consumers understand what type of privacy guarantees are in place (or not); especially when these companies know what websites we frequent, what routes we take, what cities we visit, and who we follow. We are now living in a time when Americans demand clarity on how companies will protect personal and private information and what assurances are in place to prevent their information from being shared, sold, or stolen. “I don’t understand how we’ve reached a point where we, in the United States, are reliant on a foreign regulation to protect our data. Americans should not have to suffer from weaker protections because of a Republican majority that refuses to even consider meaningful legislation. In the absence of GOP leadership, American companies must set an example that they are truly committed to safeguarding user privacy in our nation by clarifying what aspects of the GDPR will and will not be implemented.” The full letters can be read below:
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), rebuked Republican colleagues for ignoring the issues black and brown Americans face. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. My amendment simply expands treatment options for addicts in the United States. While we are here discussing opioid addiction, we are ignoring issues that continue to face our Nation. Addressing the opioid epidemic is important but that does not mean we can ignore longstanding killers like alcohol and other intoxicants. “To remedy this, my amendment expands the underlying treatment options to those suffering from substance abuse, which includes among other things Alcohol, Stimulants (such as cocaine), and Opioid Use Disorder. “In too many communities, including mine, many are the primary causes of drug-related deaths. While I am glad we are addressing the opioid issue, ignoring other addicts and other addictions is not only a grave disservice, it is an injustice. Too often, this Committee and this House have paid attention to issues only when they affect the majority, white, population. This leaves far too many black and brown Americans behind. “These Americans have already suffered because of the inaction and indifference of their elected representatives. In my eyes, that means that we have failed as a legislative body. Why is it that instead of treatment, minority Americans are subject to incarceration? Why is it that issues of this degree only generate headlines and Congressional action when they come with a white face? Even more insulting, when a crisis impacts the African-American community it’s seen as a criminal justice crisis but when it affects the white community, it’s seen as a public health crisis. “This bill, as written, adds insult to injury by once again excluding treatment from those who are primarily addicted to crack cocaine even though it serves as a gateway to the opioid addiction that we’re seeing in every community across the country. “So, Mr. Chairman, I think it is crucial that we not ignore these long-forgotten Americans. “Before I close, I want to express my extreme displeasure at attempts by staff to tone down my remarks. This issue is one that should spark outrage in all of us. Outrage for the untold numbers of families that have been torn apart, outrage for all those who suffered with too long with too little help, and outrage for those who are languishing in our jails instead of receiving the treatment they so badly need. “With that, I withdraw my amendment and yield back the balance of my time.”
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the “Examining the State of Electric Transmission Infrastructure: Investment, Planning, Construction, and Alternatives” Hearing: "I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today examining the state of electric transmission infrastructure. "As you know, Mr. Chairman, there have been many developments in the nation’s energy portfolio since FERC issued Order No. 890 back in 2007 as a way to promote open-access transmission service. "This rule outlined a planning process for transmission providers consisting of nine planning principles, including: coordination; openness; transparency; information exchange; comparability; dispute resolution; regional coordination; economic planning studies; and cost allocation. "In 2011, FERC issued Order No. 1000 as a way to further improve the planning process within and among geographic regions and also to determine how transmission costs were distributed to customers. "Order 1000 was also issued to provide additional opportunity for non-incumbent transmission developers to compete to build projects within the service territory of incumbent utilities. "Mr. Chairman, in reviewing this policy it appears that the results have been mixed in regards to how successful it has been in achieving its goals. "We are in the midst of a rapidly changing energy landscape, reflected in part by the emergence of renewable energy sources, low-cost natural gas, state-led Renewable Portfolio Standard goals, as well as an increase in energy-efficiency initiatives and an overall reduction in energy demand. "Mr. Chairman, shifting consumer behavior is driving many of these changes as customers demand cleaner forms of energy, along with new tools to more responsibly use the energy they consume, both as a way to save money and as a way to save the environment. "Traditional models of buying and selling energy are being disrupted by demand response programs where emerging technologies such as energy storage and distributed-energy systems allow consumers to produce energy and sell it back to the grid. "Mr. Chairman, based on the testimony that we will hear today, it appears that there are some real concerns with Order 1000 and modifications may be needed to help meet its objective. "If the goal was to provide a clear and collaborative inter- and intra-regional planning process, with transparent and fair cost allocation in order to spur additional competition and increased investment in grid infrastructure projects, then it is less clear if that objective has indeed been achieved. "While most of the witnesses believe that changes should be made, there is less consensus on what those changes should look like. "So I look forward to engaging today’s panel of distinguished witnesses and hearing from them regarding the opportunities and challenges surrounding Order 1000, as well as recommendations for improving this policy. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on President Trump’s rash decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “With this decision, we have witnessed yet another example of a temperamentally unfit and reckless president who will do anything to undo the successes of the prior Administration. “This decision is not grounded in facts, reason, or strategy and Trump has likely put Iran back on the path toward building a nuclear weapon, which will only serve to further destabilize the region and endanger the U.S. and our allies. “Trump would like us to believe his ‘fake news’ that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is not working. In reality, though, it is. This agreement has paved the way for historic restrictions and thorough inspections that prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “Irresponsibly withdrawing from this agreement damages America’s credibility around the globe, which has already been tarnished by his lies, erratic behavior, and incompetence. It also undermines future diplomacy and sends a clear message to North Korea and other countries that our word is not our bond. “Trump has spent his entire campaign and his beleaguered presidency calling the Iran nuclear agreement ‘the worst deal ever’ but he’s been in office for 15 months and has yet to successfully make a single deal. “Unilaterally walking away from this agreement — and thereby ignoring the concerns of some of our most trusted partners around the world — does not make the American people and our allies safer it just exacerbates our biggest global challenges. “Trump’s decision today does not project smart and strong leadership. It projects small and weak leadership from a man that will do literally anything to fulfil an empty campaign promise, even though the consequences for people at home and around the globe may be catastrophic” ###
05.07.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on plan to introduce bill to make lynching a federal crime: “Today, I announced my intention to introduce a bill to make Lynching a federal crime. This bill is in part symbolic but relevant. You only need to look at the events in Charlottesville to be reminded that not too long ago rallies such as those resulted in the Lynching of innocent African-Americans. “Lynching has never been classified as a federal crime, despite many attempts by various Presidents and legislators. “My bill will also provide grants to encourage and preserve the history of the anti-lynching movement. “The National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which is the nation's first memorial dedicated to the painful history of lynching must not be the last. “It is also important to remember the role African-American women played in the anti-lynching movement. It was black women who created the group, Anti-Lynching Crusaders, with the backing of the NAACP. “The horrific, despicable, and racist practice of lynching spawned their activism. African-American women stood at the forefront in public protest of these racially motivated, inhumane, and evil crimes. “Congressman Dyer, who was the first to introduce an anti-lynching bill in 1918, motivated them and helped galvanize a movement. His bill was intended to punish authorities that failed to prevent lynching and act as a deterrent to end the practice. Unfortunately, it did not pass. “During this period, women were important and prominent figures. Before this legislation was introduced they already had a grassroots movement in motion. They were organizing petition drives, fundraising, and educating communities. “Today, it is important that we finish the work of these trailblazing women and Congressman Dyer and rewrite the wrongs of history.” ###
05.03.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s reversal of his decision to oust House Chaplain Patrick Conroy: “Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s unilateral and ill-advised decision to force the resignation of Father Conroy was deeply troubling. Not only did he lack the authority to take such an irresponsible step but he did so for unknown reasons. Father Conroy has met the needs and concerns of all Members and did so with spiritual clarity, deep-seated commitment, and total accessibility. I am glad he will remain the House Chaplain and that bipartisan resistance brought on this reversal.” ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, questioned EPA Administrator, Scott Pruitt during the FY19 Budget Hearing and raised concerns about the reported elevated lead levels in Chicago: “In my home city of Chicago, we are dealing with a dire situation of reports that brain-damaging lead found in tap water are in hundreds of homes tested across the city. Nearly 2,800 homes tested between 2015–2017, close to 70 percent, were found to contain elevated levels of lead. Additionally, 3 out of every 10 homes tested contained lead concentrations higher than 5 parts per billion, the maximum amount allowed in bottled water by the Food and Drug Administration. “According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, even consuming tiny amounts of lead can permanently damage the developing brains of children and contribute to kidney failure, heart disease, and other health problems. “I pressed EPA Administrator, Scott Pruitt what the EPA will do to phase out lead in drinking water (by requiring replacement of lead service lines). “I was encouraged to hear that Mr. Pruitt agrees that ‘there is no safe level of lead in our drinking water’ and that this is ‘something we need to act aggressively upon as an agency and a country.’ “Additionally, I asked Administrator Pruitt to spell out in what ways the EPA might provide financing and other mechanisms to help address this issue in Chicago and around our nation. “He ‘estimated that it’s about $45 billion dollars to replace the lead service lines across the country’ and ‘believes we can prioritize funding up to $4 billion a year in over a 10-year process.’ “This is an important development and I will be meeting with state and city officials in the near future to ensure that Chicago has the funding it needs to ensure that our drinking water is safe.” ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), released the following statement on Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson’s disastrous plan to increase rent on millions of Americans receiving federal housing assistance: “The American people are once again confronted with an out of control Trump Administration that has taken every opportunity to undermine working men and women. This proposed and irrational plan will harm millions of the most vulnerable Americans. “It is incomprehensible that this Administration — which Trump promised would be comprised of ‘the best and the brightest’ — could even fathom a plan that would be a direct attack on the poor, seniors, people with disabilities, veterans, and working families. “In Illinois alone, over 220,000 low-income households use federal rental assistance to rent modest housing at an affordable cost and at least 69 percent have extremely low incomes. These are the individuals that are under direct assault with this disastrous proposal. They are simply trying to keep a roof over their heads and make ends meet but President Trump and Secretary Carson are planning to leave them out in the cold. Frankly, this is disgraceful.” ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the “Oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the FY2019 Budget” Hearing. "I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this very timely hearing today and I look forward to hearing from the FERC commissioners on some of the more pressing issues regarding both the reliability and resiliency of the nation’s electric grid. "Mr. Chairman, just last week this Subcommittee heard from Energy Secretary Perry on what he considered a very real concern regarding grid reliability. "Specifically, the topic of DOE potentially using its emergency authority under Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act to grant the request made by First Energy to issue an emergency must-run order for 85 coal and nuclear plants within the PJM Interconnection came up repeatedly. "In fact, Secretary Perry seemed to be sounding the alarm that we are quickly heading towards a point-of-no-return, when the imminent retirement of several coal and nuclear plants would leave the nation in a situation where we would be unable to meet our energy demands if we do not act soon. "Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing the commission’s views on this critical issue. "Another topic of great debate during last week’s DOE hearing focused on the March 2018 study by the National Energy Technology Laboratory, or NETL. "That report highlighted the use of coal during the prolonged cold snap that the nation experienced between December 2017 and January 2018. "The NETL study concluded that within the PJM region, coal provided the most resilient form of generation during this cold blitz. "It went on to say that without the available capacity from coal facilities, then PJM would have experienced power shortfalls and widespread blackouts. "However, Mr. Chairman, just this past Friday, PJM issued its own response to the NETL study, refuting those conclusions and stating that PJM indeed had adequate amounts of resources to supply power and did not need to invoke emergency procedures. "PJM also noted that while coal and nuclear played an important role during this period, that was due more to economic factors and its region never faced any real reliability threat. "Mr. Chairman, as the agency responsible for ensuring the reliability of the nation’s electric grid, I look forward to hearing directly from the FERC commissioners on this and other important issues. "Specifically, I would like to commend the agency for its recent unanimous vote finalizing a rulemaking allowing for aggregated distributed energy resources to compete in wholesale markets. "This vote marked an important step in the right direction by allowing advanced technologies, such as demand response, energy storage, electric automobiles, and solar photovoltaics to participate in the wholesale markets. "Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, I also have some concerns regarding a recent policy change determining how impacted stakeholders may intervene in pipeline reviews. "I would like to hear from the commission on its justification for becoming "less lenient" in allowing intervenors to join proceedings that are "out of time", and how these new changes might impact public input and participation in the pipeline review process. "So, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to engaging the commissioners here today, and with that, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
04.15.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), delivered the following remarks today at the opening of the new CTA terminal at 95th and Dan Ryan. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Good afternoon, "I would like to thank Mayor Emanuel, CTA Chairman Terry Peterson and CTA President Dorval Carter for their leadership and dedication to our new and very modern 95th/Dan Ryan South Terminal. "It is thrilling to see this vision become a reality and I must commend all the hard work and planning it took to bring us to this halfway point. "Federal dollars play a significant role in supporting innovation and modernization. I am happy I was able to help secure over $100 million for this renovation project. "The 95th/Dan Ryan Transit Station is synonymous with Chicago and has served millions of Chicagoans and visitors in its nearly fifty-year history. "These improvements will better serve our city and I know my constituents in the first district of Illinois are excited to experience a more comfortable and more convenient commute. "Addressing and providing solutions to the transportation needs of my constituents is important to me. We all know individuals and families rely heavily on public transit and that much of their time is spent with fellow commuters and CTA workers so offering these improvements is critical to ensuring the well-being of CTA’s passengers. "Again, I would like to extend my sincerest appreciation to all who have contributed to this project. This is just another great example of what we can do when federal and local officials work together to bring resources that enhance the quality of life for the residents of the my district, Chicago, and our community as a whole."
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the “The Fiscal Year 2019 Department of Energy Budget” Hearing. I want to thank you, Mr. Secretary, for being here today and I look forward to working with your office to ensure that the department moves the nation’s energy policy forward in a way that benefits all Americans, and indeed all communities. Mr. Secretary, history has shown us the importance of having people with different perspectives, and from different life experiences, at the table when important and consequential decisions are initially being made. So, when I talk about having diversity in leadership positions at DOE, it’s not just for the sake of having diversity. But rather, it helps to ensure that specific groups or communities aren’t being excluded, intentionally or not. Whether decisions are being made regarding which universities are awarded research grant money, or which businesses receive contracts, or even how a specific policy might impact a particular community, having diversity, in demographics and in opinion, helps make sure certain groups aren’t being left out. So, Mr. Secretary, I look forward to meeting with you soon to discuss your thoughts on this issue and to see how we might be able to work together to make sure the department is providing aid and resources to all communities, in a way that’s sustainable regardless of the administration that’s in office. Mr. Secretary, besides the objective of making sure the department enacts inclusive policies, I also have strong views in regards to the FY19 budget proposal that was put forth by the Administration. Specifically, Mr. Secretary, this budget proposal would cut the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, or EERE, by 70 percent from FY 2018 levels, with over $600 million of these reductions coming from energy efficiency programs. Mr. Secretary, these proposed cuts are a nonstarter, as far as I am concerned. They would severely and negatively impact low-income families throughout my home state of Illinois, and the country, by eliminating extremely popular and much-needed initiatives, such as the Weatherization Assistance Program and the State Energy Program. Additionally, the proposal would decrease funding for the Office of Science, which funds the 17 national laboratories, by $869 million from the FY 2018 enacted level, eliminating the Advanced Research Programs Agency-Energy, or ARPA-E. The budget proposal would also get rid of all DOE loan programs, including the Title 17 innovative clean energy projects loan program and the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) loan program. Mr. Secretary, this FY 19 budget proposal reflects exactly the wrong vision for the country as it would take us backwards on critical issues like climate change, while also hampering American innovation and global competitiveness. Instead, we must increase federal investment in advanced technologies, such as clean energy research and development, manufacturing, and low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies in order to help spur U.S. ingenuity and economic growth. Thank you for being here, Mr. Secretary, and I look forward to working with you to address these important issues moving forward. With that, I yield back the balance of my time. ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the House Republicans’ failed attempt to destroy Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security: “The House Republicans’ cynical balanced budget amendment was nothing more than a partisan exercise designed to provide political cover for their irresponsible and unpopular GOP tax scam, which is projected to explode the deficit by nearly two trillion dollars ($2,000,000,000,000). “In their obvious ploy to save their political careers they brought forward legislation that would force deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Congressional Republicans already sided with Wall Street, the wealthy, and well-connected with their tax law and now they are willing to kick seniors to the curb to maintain their façade of fiscal responsibility. “I refuse to participate in this sham and to allow Republicans to destroy our seniors’ retirement security. It is clear they have been greatly influenced by President Trump because this — like so many of his ideas, proposals, and tweets — is nothing more than a long con. “Republicans need to realize that fiscal responsibility is more than a talking point. These actions have direct and significant consequences for people and their futures. That is why I stand by the promise our country made to our seniors and veterans and that is why I voted NO on this plot to extinguish Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security.” # # #
04.04.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to Facebook Founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg requesting him to specify which aspects of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will and will not be implemented for users in the United States and around the world. “It was encouraging to learn that Mark Zuckerberg has embraced the ‘spirit’ of the European Union’s new law on data privacy but his intention falls flat when he has not committed to this type of privacy guarantee — that would deliver much needed assurance — to users in the United States and across the globe. Now is not the time for any ambiguity on what steps will be taken to protect our personal data. Americans need clarity and should not have to wonder if their data is being shared, sold, or stolen. Facebook’s hesitation to apply privacy rules should not be determined by what is best for their bottom line or geography but instead what is best for their two billion users.” The full letter can be read below: ###
04.03.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on Trump calling for the militarization of the southern border: “Once again, President Trump continues to create chaos in his failed attempts to address immigration and border security. He deliberately rolls out incoherent policy ideas that are not derived from research or facts but are intended to appeal to his base. Trump repeatedly said that Mexico would pay for the wall. Then he tried to get American taxpayers to foot the bill directly. Since that did not work, he pushed for the U.S. military to fund his wall and now he is calling for the militarization of the southern border. At best, that would be a temporary fix and would fail to solve our most pressing immigration issues. It is past time for the President to work with Democrats on bipartisan immigration solutions, such as making a deal on DACA and securing our border instead of using our military servicemembers as political props.” ###
04.02.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s move to weaken America’s clean car standards: “I am disappointed with the EPA’s decision to roll back emission standards. Scott Pruitt continues to defy his own agency experts to appease corporations and big polluters at the expense of our health. This rollback of the clean car standards will hurt American families — forcing them to spend more money on gas, increasing oil consumption, and boosting the pollution driving climate change. Our clean car standards are achievable and working. We should keep moving forward, and resist Scott Pruitt who is determined to take us backwards. This reckless decision to ignore science is Scott Pruitt’s hallmark and I wish he would base his decision on expert advice and not the lobbyists he answers to.” ###
04.02.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Winnie Mandela: “I am immensely saddened to learn of the passing of Winnie Mandela. She was a revolutionary and courageous figure in the fight against apartheid whose fearless dedication to activism was an inspiration to all that followed her transformative life. She represented a resistance to the darkest and most challenging period in South Africa and was a symbol of hope to her country and to the world. She leaves behind a legacy of bravery and a tireless commitment to freedom, equality, and justice. Winnie Mandela will live on as the mother of post-Apartheid South Africa and her trailblazing life will never be forgotten. My condolences to her family, friends, admirers, and to the people of South Africa who she loved so much.” ###
03.30.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the Under Armour Data Breach of 150 Million MyFitnessPal Accounts: “In the eight days since I introduced the DATA Act, H.R. 5388, Americans have seen their private information compromised by two more companies, Orbitz and now Under Armour. Our personal information, whether it be travel or fitness related is being compromised at a truly unnerving rate. “The time for strong, national data privacy and data protection rules is now and we must put them in place before it is too late. It is clear that our personal information is on the line and up for sale to the highest bidder, the most nefarious bad actor. “The DATA Act would require the Federal Trade Commission issue regulations requiring companies that own or possess data containing personal information to establish specified and hardened security policies and procedures that would treat and protect our information. “As news of yet another data breach comes to light, Americans are being shaken to their core and their trust in these companies is eroding. It is no longer enough for citizens to hope companies improve their internal actions. It must be mandated, as the DATA Act requires. “My bill would require that companies inform users within 30 days following a breach. A breach as defined in this legislation is any unauthorized acquisition, access, or sale of data. Failure to inform consumers would make companies financially liable for their negligent behavior. “This industry’s lack of regulation has made everyone vulnerable to their data being placed in the wrong hands. We cannot let this industry continue to police themselves. They are not prepared to handle this ongoing threat and protect our most personal information. I look forward to working with my Congressional colleagues on these commonsense digital security solutions that will improve the trust of the American people who rely on these platforms.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the House passage of the omnibus spending bill: “Democrats pushed hard to ensure the priorities of middle-class households were reflected in this Omnibus Appropriations Act. I am pleased to see there will be critical investments made to the NIH, community health centers, and families across the country who are fighting opioid addiction. These bold and much needed investments stand in direct contrast to the outrageous Trump Budget. “The clarification of the Dickey amendment, which would no longer prohibit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from researching gun violence as a public health risk, is a significant step forward, particularly as we deal with the ongoing epidemic plaguing every part of our country. As we did here, we must continue to work in a bipartisan manner to find more real solutions on gun control. “Democrats fought for and won drastic reductions to the administration’s plan, which requested $25 billion for the wall and sought to defund sanctuary cities. Instead of these arcane and ineffective proposals, Democrats secured funding for proven methods of securing our border. “I am proud that Democrats were able to eliminate irresponsible poison pill riders that targeted women’s health, clean air and water, workers’ rights, and consumer financial protections. Overall, while this Omnibus Appropriations Act greatly benefits American families and communities and promises robust investments, it still leaves important work — such as the DREAM Act — incomplete, which is why I voted NO.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 5388, the “Data Accountability and Trust Act” (DATA Act). The DATA Act would require the Federal Trade Commission to issue regulations requiring companies that own or possess data containing personal information to establish specified security policies and procedures to treat and protect such information. Over the weekend, Americans were startled to learn that Cambridge Analytica harvested and sold data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. Compounding this outrage is the fact that — in a major breach of confidence that shook the trust of users — Facebook deliberately withheld this information and has proposed no corrective actions. “If my bill were law today, Facebook users would have learned far earlier that their data was being improperly used and weaponized. Instead of misrepresenting their intent, Cambridge Analytica would have had to get authorization to use and sell this sort of data and both them and Facebook — who has yet to officially notify its users — would be financially liable for their irresponsible and deceptive behavior,” said Rush. Specifically, this bill requires notification within 30 days following a breach and clarifies that the unauthorized acquisition, access, or sale of data constitutes a breach. “Facebook took advantage of the industry’s lack of regulation and knowingly allowed their users to believe their data was safe when, in fact, it was not. Strong, national data privacy and data protection rules are long overdue. We can no longer allow companies that hold our personal information to self-regulate when they have proven time and time again that they are incapable of effectively doing so and continue to erode the trust of the American people. It is long past time for Congress to act and our privacy is on the line so, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this critical matter.” ###
03.19.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will host a Housing Resource Fair on Saturday, April 7, 2018 from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.at the Kroc Center, located at 1250 West 119th Street Chicago, IL 60643. This free and important event is open to all constituents. Attendees will be able to speak with federal, state, and local agencies about all of the available resources in the community. “If you live in Chicagoland and are struggling to pay your monthly mortgage, facing foreclosure, need down payment assistance to purchase your first home, or any number of housing concerns, then this event will be a critical resource for you,” said Rush. “There will be a variety of agencies who will be able to guide people to available resources and help ease the concerns of individuals who are trying to keep their head above water or become new homeowners.” The event will be an interactive opportunity, where attendees will leave having made significant strides towards purchasing a home or remaining in their home. Ultimately, the desire is to: Provide counseling services to homebuyers; Offer information about foreclosure prevention programs; Assist homeowners with loan modifications and mortgage relief; Inform homeowners about their rights and how to avoid foreclosure rescue scams; Provide guidance for first-time homebuyers and down payment assistance programs; Offer Veterans information about veteran specific Homeowner Programs; Receive general information about the Cook County Property Tax Appeals process; Give all homeowners access to the Energy Efficiency Program; and Share resources about the CEDA Weatherization Program “I encourage all residents of the 1st Congressional District to attend!” said Rush. ###
03.19.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on President Trump’s opioid plan, which calls for the death penalty: “It has been clear since the beginning of this presidency that Trump’s plan to tackle the opioid epidemic in America is nothing more than a long con. Trump has been all talk and no action. The opioid commission he launched last year has barely implemented any of their 56 recommendations. He declared the opioid epidemic a national emergency but there were no tangible resources provided to effectively deal with the crisis. He continues to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, which aids in expanding access to addiction treatment. He has done nothing but undermine the efforts that were in place to tackle this issue. “Now today, he plans to continue his charade to address this issue — which is plaguing so many Americans — by introducing a proposal that calls for the death penalty for drug dealers. Any plan that calls for capital punishment is not serious. “This is a dog whistle to his base and it seeks to take us back to the 1990s failed ‘War on Drugs’, which saw some of the most appalling racial disparities in the arrests and prosecutions of African-Americans and Latinos. Already, minorities are put in jail at disproportionately higher rates when compared to their White counterparts for drug offences. Imagine how a broken criminal justice system would treat minority men and women when the death penalty is now part of the equation.” ###
03.16.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise M. Slaughter (N.Y.-25): “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my colleague, Congresswoman Louise M. Slaughter. As one of the longest-serving female leaders in Congress, Representative Slaughter was a fighter and trailblazer for women’s rights, becoming the first woman ever to chair the House Committee on Rules. She dedicated her life to public service and proudly represented the people of the 25th district of New York. She was a staunch advocate and made it her life’s work to ensure that the American dream was attainable to everyone. On behalf of everyone in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I extend my prayers and deepest sympathies to her family, friends, and constituents. May God grant them peace in this difficult time.” ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in response to the denial of U.S. citizenship to Afghanistan war veteran, Miguel Perez Jr.: “This is an awfully sad day in Chicago and our Nation. Miguel Perez Jr. bravely served our country in America’s longest war and today he was denied the privilege of citizenship after selflessly fighting for our shared American values. This is immoral. He has scarified so much to protect and serve and the treatment he has endured is symptomatic of this Nation’s broken promises to those of whom it has asked so much. Simply put, this is un-American. “Miguel loves this country immensely and his service is more than ample proof. His wartime experience has left him battling post-traumatic stress and his inability to access the treatment he so deserved was just the beginning of the injustices he faces today. He did everything right and I am deeply saddened and extremely disappointed with this outcome. This decision is cruel and heartless to Miguel and extremely frustrating for those of us who have been moved by his story. “This is yet another example of the Trump Administration’s callous disregard for the valuable contributions of our immigrants. What message are we sending to our immigrant servicemembers today when they see how we treated Miguel? We broke him, did not help him, and when he tried to help himself, we punished him.” ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the hearing on “DOE Modernization: Legislation Addressing Cybersecurity and Emergency Response” Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: "I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today on legislation addressing cybersecurity and emergency response. "Mr. Chairman, I support the four bills before us and I want to specifically acknowledge Mr. Walberg of Michigan for working with my office on the Energy Emergency Leadership Act. "This bill would establish a new DOE Assistant Secretary position with jurisdiction over all energy emergency and security functions related to energy supply, infrastructure, and cybersecurity. "Mr. Chairman, while cybersecurity is an important topic, I would be remiss if I did not point out that today is National Walkout Day. "As we speak, students from across the country are leaving their classrooms to honor the lives of the 17 people killed at Stoneman Douglas High School last month and to press policymakers to pass commonsense gun control laws. "Mr. Speaker, cybersecurity is a serious issue that must be addressed, however, nothing can be more urgent than answering the cries and pleas emanating from our nation’s youth: "Students who have had enough of being scared and anxious and frustrated by the lack of leadership coming from both the Trump Administration and this Congress on the issue of gun violence. "Mr. Chairman, as policymakers, as parents and grandparents, as adults and as leaders, we are failing our youth by letting politics and influential interest groups come before our most sacred responsibility: protecting our children. ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following remarks today at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Energy Summit. Rush Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Friends, it is my great honor to be here today speaking to you at the 2018 Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Energy Summit. "First, I would like to thank Domenika Lynch, President and CEO of the CHCI, for inviting me to participate in this important summit. "I must also acknowledge my esteemed colleague and fellow member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Dr. Raul Ruiz, a bright, young, rising star within the Democratic Caucus, who will be moderating the next panel. "Now for the reason why we are all here: Friends, it is my distinct pleasure to welcome you all to the next panel entitled Latinos in Energy & STEM: Preparing the Next Generation of the Energy Workforce for New and Innovative Job Opportunities in the Energy Sector. "Friends, as the Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee since 2011, I can assure you that there is no issue that I have been more involved with than trying to increase the participation of minorities within all sectors of the lucrative energy industry. "Today, I want to spend less time talking about the tremendous opportunities available for minority candidates, which you will hear all about, and instead focus my remarks on some of the taxpayer-funded resources that we must make sure are accessible to our communities. "Specifically, I want to discuss resources available through the $30 billion Department of Energy and also the 17 internationally-acclaimed National Laboratories located throughout the country. "In 2013, through a collaboration with my office and then-Secretary Moniz, DOE established the Minorities in Energy Initiative, an agency-wide program designed to increase outreach to and partnerships with underserved communities. "In order to codify the work of the MIE Initiative, I also introduced the 21st Century Workforce Bill, HR 338, that directs the Secretary of Energy to prioritize the training of underrepresented groups, including minorities, women, and veterans, in order to increase the number of skilled candidates trained to work in these related fields. "This bill would strengthen and more fully engage DOE programs and national laboratories in order to carry out the Department’s STEM and workforce development initiatives. "The legislation would also help increase outreach to minority-serving educational institutions to ensure that the wealth of existing resources at DOE and the national labs are made available to these worthy establishments, through STEM grants, training opportunities, apprenticeships and internships, to name a few examples. "In addition to workforce training and development, it is also important to remember that there are other business and entrepreneurial opportunities available within both DOE and the national labs in regards to vending and contracting opportunities. "In fact, DOE and the labs dole out millions of taxpayer dollars annually, and we must work together to break the good ole boys network and make sure that people who look like us are privy to some of those contracts. "Friends, it is important to remember that regardless of who occupies the White House, we have strength in numbers if we choose to work together and demand that taxpayer funded resources are used to benefit all communities. "So, once again, I want to thank you for allowing me to participate in this critical meeting of the minds. "I urge all of you here to work with my office, as well as likeminded Members of Congress, agency officials, and other stakeholders, to keep the heat on leaders throughout the US government and ensure that our communities are also able to reap the benefits from federally-funded agencies, institutions, and resources. "We must speak up in order to make sure that our voices are heard! "Thank you all and I look forward to continuing our work together." ###
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) would award $5,233,069 in federal funding for three grants to the University of Chicago. The grants will allow for key research in several distinct arenas: scientific understanding of sound change, new methods for identifying the best ways to buy and sell goods via auctions, and quantum computing. Professor Alan Yu and Professor Jacob Phillips of the Department of Linguistics at the University of Chicago will lead dissertation research, which will focus on the way in which some sound changes are asymmetrically distributed. They hope to provide insight into first and/or second language acquisition, which may aid in the development of speech recognition systems that are faster and more accurate for a greater number of users, especially those with non-standard accents. The aim of the project lead by Assistant Professor Benjamin Brooks of the Department of Economics at the University of Chicago will characterize revenue maximizing auctions when bidders have a common valuation for the good being sold. This research will develop new theories of optimal robust auctions that provide favorable revenue guarantees across different models of bidder beliefs and across different kinds of equilibrium behavior. The methodological component of the project could lead to the development of more efficient online trading platforms. Fred Chong, the Seymour Goodman Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Chicago will lead a team of investigators in a project that will develop new algorithms, software, and machine designs tailored to key properties of quantum device technologies with 100 to 1000 quantum bits. This work will facilitate profound new scientific discoveries and broadly impact the state of high-performance computing. “It is exciting to see such robust, diverse, and innovative research taking place in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois,” said Rush. “The funds will give these scientific researchers the opportunity to take on a leadership role in developing solutions in their respective fields. I am committed to ensuring that our next generation of leaders has all the resources they need to succeed and will continue to advocate for federal funding.” The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement as the Supreme Court deliberates the case of Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31: “This case is being pushed by the rich and well-connected seeking to divide hardworking people and make it extremely difficult for them to stand together in a union. We are witnessing yet another example of a billionaire class hell-bent on rigging the economy against working- and middle-class Americans. “I continue to stand with the working men and women of our country and those in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois to fully support their freedom to join together in unions. Unions have defined the best parts of America and work every day to protect and improve the lives of all workers. Whether or not they are members, they work to raise wages, ensure access to healthcare, and build stronger communities. “Enough of the rich and powerful only thinking about their bottom line and discarding the needs of working people. We must make it easier, not harder, for American workers to join together and advocate for their rights and interests. “As the Supreme Court continues to deliberate this case, I want my constituents to know I will always fight for working people and for your ability to join together to improve your lives and our communities.” ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the hearing on “State of the Nation’s Energy Infrastructure”. Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today on energy infrastructure. “As you know, Mr. Chairman, investing in the nation’s aging infrastructure is a top priority for Members on both sides of the aisle and it is my hope that we can address this issue in a bipartisan manner. “Unfortunately, the proposal put forth by the Trump Administration leaves a lot to be desired and is a poor starting point from my perspective. “Mr. Chairman, the President’s infrastructure plan fails to provide adequate federal investment in the nation’s antiquated energy infrastructure. “But rather it attempts to short-circuit environmental regulations and it places the vast majority of the funding burden on cash-strapped states and local municipalities. “In fact, under the Administration’s proposal, states would be prohibited from receiving more than ten percent of total grant funds, and 80 percent of new investment must come from non-federal sources. “Mr. Chairman, this proposal resembles less of a national infrastructure plan, and instead would simply pick winners and losers, where only a limited number of states, localities, and affluent communities would actually benefit. “Instead Mr. Chairman, I would urge this Subcommittee to look at the more serious alternative outlined in HR 2479, the Leading Infrastructure for Tomorrow’s America, or LIFT America Act, introduced by Ranking Member Pallone, myself, and the rest of the minority Members of the Energy and Commerce Committee in May 2017. “This bill offers thoughtful recommendations that would truly benefit all Americans, including provisions that would invest in drinking water infrastructure, clean energy infrastructure, more resilient broadband, brownfields redevelopment, and healthcare infrastructure. “Additionally, Mr. Chairman, I have also sponsored a bill that would strengthen the nation’s workforce by investing in initiatives to train minorities, women, veterans, and unemployed coal workers to compete for good-paying energy and manufacturing jobs and careers. “Mr. Chairman, it is not enough to simply curtail environmental protections and pass the funding burden on to the states. “In order to enact a comprehensive infrastructure plan that addresses the real challenges that we face, we must invest in our workforce, as well as in modernizing our electric grid with an emphasis on security, resiliency, and efficiency in the face of reoccurring extreme weather events. “So I look forward to hearing from our distinguished witnesses on this important topic. “I also look forward to working with the majority to enact a comprehensive infrastructure bill that addresses the challenges we face in the 21st Century, and one that would benefit all Americans. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
02.21.2018	Rush Announces 2018 Congressional Art Competition CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) invites high school students in the 1st Congressional District of Illinois to submit their artwork for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition by Tuesday, May 1. “This is a great opportunity for students in the First District to showcase their enormous talent,” said Rush. “I am excited to see the wonderful pieces of art and I encourage all young artists from around the district to submit their work for consideration.” The winning piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol building along with other artwork from across the country. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 and since then more than 650,000 young artists have been involved. Official rules, guidelines, and submission forms are available on Congressman Rush’s website at https://rush.house.gov/services/art-competition. ###
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) was honored last night at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Inc. (CBCF) annual Avoice Heritage Celebration. The event honored individuals who have served in the military — including a 100-year-old World War II veteran — and those who have demonstrated a commitment to advancing the rights and benefits of black veterans. Congressional Black Caucus members who served in the military were recognized for their service. The Avoice Heritage Celebration is the CBCF's official Black History Month program and an opportunity to highlight the Avoice Virtual Library Project, an online repository that captures the legislative and political achievements of African Americans in Congress. Awardees: General Colin L. Powell, USA (Ret.) – Distinguished Pioneer in the U.S. Military and National Security Award for his accomplishments as a historic trailblazer for black veterans. Sergeant Millie Dunn Veasey, USA (Ret.) – Distinguished Veteran Living Legend Award for serving as a staff sergeant to the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion during World War II. Ginger Miller, U.S. Navy Veteran; Founder and CEO, Women Veterans Interactive – Distinguished Veterans' Rights Activist Award for her tireless efforts to educate the public and advocate for veterans in need. Current Congressional Black Caucus Veterans – Distinguished Veteran Service and Champion Award in recognition of their military service and demonstrated commitment to minority veterans' affairs. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (U.S. Army) Eddie Bernice Johnson (Nurse Veteran) Bobby L. Rush (U.S. Army) Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (Massachusetts National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve) G.K. Butterfield (U.S. Army) ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the newest Pritzker–Blagojevich audio from FBI wiretaps: “It was discouraging to hear the despicable conversation between J.B. Pritzker and former Governor Rod Blagojevich, as they discuss leaders in the African-American community in such a dismissive and disrespectful manner. It was particularly jarring to listen to this audio as the country celebrates Black History Month and reflects on the historical and cultural accomplishments of our community. To hear these men describe the ways in which they believe they are covered “on the African-American thing” is simply outrageous. Black people are not “things” nor is the black community a collection of political pawns on a chessboard to be moved around and manipulated by privileged white men. In that regard, former Illinois Senate President Emil Jones Jr. refused to accept his apology and the African-American community deserves a more committed and sincere expressive change of heart. This type of rhetoric and thinking has no place in public discourse and should be widely condemned.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the hearing on “DOE Modernization: Advancing the Economic and National Security Benefits of America’s Nuclear Infrastructure” Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: "I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today on advancing the economic and national security benefits of America’s nuclear infrastructure. "Mr. Chairman, as I understand it, there are several bills regarding nuclear policy that the majority has noted in its memo. "I look forward to working with the majority side as we proceed through regular order and bring these bills up in a legislative hearing in order to hear from expert witnesses on the consequences and impacts of these bills. "Mr. Chairman, I believe we may be able to come to bipartisan agreement on most, if not all of those bills in order to increase their chances of actually becoming law. "Mr. Chairman, as I have stated many times before, I subscribe to an all-of-the-above energy portfolio, even as we move towards a low-carbon energy economy. "I have also stated on many occasions, I believe nuclear energy must play a vital role as a source of safe, reliable, low-carbon power that can help us meet both the energy and environmental needs of the 21st Century. "While I did not agree with the recent Department of Energy Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) issued last year that was recently rebuffed by FERC, I continue to maintain that we must find a way to appropriately appraise nuclear energy nationally. "However, I believe this must be done in a fair, methodical, and transparent manner by elected policymakers, rather than done hastily and in secret by unelected agency officials. "Therefore, it is my hope that in addition to today’s hearing, we will have other opportunities to hear from stakeholders on the benefits and impacts of both traditional nuclear facilities, as well as advanced nuclear technologies, including non-light water reactors and light-water small modular reactor designs. "Mr. Chairman, these new and emerging technologies will allow for the production of nuclear power more efficiently and with less waste than current technologies. "Mr. Chairman, I can imagine a scenario where these smaller, less costly reactors can be utilized to power hard-to-reach remote populations, whether they be in small rural communities in the Midwest, or native villages in Alaska, or to help the thousands of Americans still living without power in Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands. "To be sure, Mr. Chairman, there remains significant issues that must be addressed including issues of safety, licensing, and the commercialization of these advanced technologies. "But it is my expectation that Members of this Subcommittee can indeed address many of these issues with bipartisan solutions that would benefit the nation as a whole. "So, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to engaging today’s distinguished panelists on both the challenges and well as the opportunities that lie ahead in the nuclear sector. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time."
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced, H. Res. 722, a resolution supporting the designation of the week of February 12 through February 16, 2018 as “Black Women’s Heart Health Awareness Week” to raise awareness and understanding that heart disease is the number one killer of women and that it disproportionately affects black women. As the country celebrates Black History Month and American Heart Month this February, it is critical to elevate both the cultural significance of the month and the awareness of the health crisis directly impacting black women. “This is an issue that hits close to home, as I lost my beloved wife and best friend, Carolyn, to heart disease last year,” said Rush. “I am personally committed to doing what I can to help educate black women about their health risk and how to prevent this disease from impacting their lives. Black women are leading the way in our country and we must do everything we can to not only promote their successes but protect their hearts.” The statistics for the impact of cardiovascular diseases in black women are staggering and should be a siren call to action. According to the American Heart Association: • African-American women are less likely than Caucasian women to be aware that heart disease is the leading cause of death. • Cardiovascular diseases kill nearly 50,000 African-American women annually. • Of African-American women ages 20 and older, 49 percent have heart diseases. • Only 1 in 5 African-American women believes she is personally at risk. • Only 52 percent of African-American women are aware of the signs and symptoms of a heart attack. • Only 36 percent of African-American women know that heart disease is their greatest health risk. “I hope that this resolution further increases the awareness of the work that is currently being done and allows us all to stand together in improving the heart health of all those who are disproportionately affected. Fighting against this deadly disease is my mission and it is how I will continue to honor my late wife, Carolyn,” said Rush. To kick off the week, Congressman Rush will host an event called, “A Heart to Heart Conversation: African-American Women and Heart Disease,” on Monday, February 12, 2018 from 6 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. at the Illinois Institute of Technology, located at 10 West 35th Street Chicago, Illinois. The event, which is open to the public, will include a panel discussion, audience Q&A, and be moderated by radio host Pam Morris Walton. ###
02.02.2018	CHICAGO — Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the House Intelligence Committee released a memo, authored by Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.): “The intelligence community concluded that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election and will certainly do it again. But, instead of working to protect the integrity of future elections, Trump and his Congressional Republican sycophants have reduced themselves to doing absolutely anything to delegitimize the ongoing Trump–Russia investigations. The release of the Nunes memo is nothing more than a partisan sham that seeks to undermine long-standing and well-respected institutions and confuse the American people. Make no mistake about it, this memo is simply propaganda, filled with talking points that have been shouted on Trump–friendly outlets for months and complete with misleading information. This is a disgraceful moment where norms have been disregarded for the sole purpose of dismantling and undermining an independent investigation and protecting a beleaguered president.” ###
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON — Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) along with Reps. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.) and Cheri Bustos ((D-Ill.) reintroduced two bills to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act. H.R.4907 would require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to establish a $50 million grant program to replace lead components used in school plumbing. H.R.4908 would provide assistance to schools to replace drinking water fountains that may contain lead. “These bills address a serious problem facing communities in every part of Illinois and around the country. Our constituents expect schools to be a healthy place for all children and that means creating an environment that is free of lead-contaminated water. We must remain committed to upgrading our infrastructure to modern standards and ensuring that every drop of water our children consume is safe,” said Rush. “I want to thank Congressman Rush and Congresswoman Bustos for their tireless dedication to ensuring that all communities have access to safe drinking water,” Pallone said. “No parent should have to worry about the safety of the water their children are drinking at school, and these bills will provide much needed funding to schools struggling to replace lead infrastructure.” Lead is considered one of the most hazardous environmental pollutants, which can lead to behavioral problems in children and have detrimental effects on kids’ ability to thrive. Exposure to lead at high levels can attack the brain and central nervous system to cause coma, convulsions, and even death. “There is no safe level of lead in drinking water, especially for young children. In Galesburg, I fought hard to secure millions of dollars to replace hundreds of lead drinking water pipes, but this problem is much bigger than just one community. We have an opportunity to put thousands of Americans to work replacing lead drinking water pipes and fountains, but that requires making a major federal investment to solve this problem. I'm proud to work with Congressmen Rush and Pallone as we work to make sure all of our children are safe, healthy, and protected from the dangers of lead exposure.” “I commend my colleagues, Rep. Pallone and Rep. Bustos, for joining me on this important effort and I look forward to working with them on the successful enactment of these critical measures that protect and safeguard future generations,” said Rush. ###
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on why he will not attend President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address: “This has been the most chaotic, divisive, and incompetent first year of any administration and I will not sit and watch as Trump pretends that he’s off to a successful start. He’s not. Trump does not respect the office, our long standing institutions, traditions, and many of our citizens, who he has repeatedly insulted. We are watching the presidency erode before our eyes and I, for one, refuse to participate in pomp and circumstance that does nothing but normalize his egregious and hateful behavior. This is a presidency that has been built on racism, stupidity, and lies, which has already wasted enough of America’s time and I will not waste any more of mine.” ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced legislation to direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct an annual inquiry on the availability of advanced telecommunications capability in broadband deserts. The term “broadband desert” is defined as a community in an urban area where fewer than 33 percent of residents lack access to sufficient broadband service. The legislation, called “Connecting Broadband Deserts Act of 2018” and cosponsored by U.S. Representative Yvette Clarke (D-N.Y.), would require that the FCC determine if advanced telecommunications capability are being properly deployed in broadband deserts in a reasonable and timely fashion and if digital redlining is occurring. Digital redlining occurs when areas are systematically excluded from digital resources and advanced technology. Those most impacted areas by this occurrence are mostly low-income communities or areas with a high minority population. “No community in our country should be deprived of access to broadband. This technology is critical for everyone, in every community, to develop economically and compete in a digital world,” said Rush. “If we stand by and allow areas in America to go without digital capabilities, we are ensuring that these places will become irrelevant.” The bill would require that the FCC take immediate action and remove any barriers relating to infrastructure investment and encourage competition in the telecommunications market for areas deemed broadband deserts. “We have the resources, talent, and innovation to make sure that everybody has reliable access to broadband. It is amoral to allow communities to be ignored, forgotten, and disadvantaged because they lack broadband access. The digital divide must end,” said Rush. ###
01.24.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement after news that former Mayor of the Village of Robbins, Dr. Irene H. Brodie, passed away: “Irene Brodie was a loyal, dedicated public servant who will be missed both in Robbins and across Illinois. A trailblazer in every aspect of her life, she leaves behind a legacy of leadership, resilience, and advocacy that exemplifies the best of America. She was the most persistent public servant I knew and always had the Village of Robbins on her mind. She was a great source of encouragement and inspiration and never gave up. I am certain that her legacy will continue to live on. On behalf of all the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I extend my deepest condolences to her family, friends, and all those who had the pleasure of knowing Irene.” ###
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON — Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) along with Reps. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.), Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.), Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.), and Yvette Clarke (D-N.Y.) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office requesting a review of the Federal Communication Commission’s deployment of the Lifeline National Verifier. The full text of the letter is below:
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Representative Joe Barton (R-Texas), Vice Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee sent a letter to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees requesting that they maintain authority for the Department of Energy Loan Program Office (LPO) with a level of $100–$200 million in funding that has already been appropriated by Congress as they consider the Continuing Resolution for FY2018. This funding would allow important U.S. energy and transportation infrastructure projects to access a meaningful portion of the $41 billion in remaining LPO funding authority. The full text of the letter is below: ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the passage of the Republican short-term government funding legislation (also known as the Continuing Resolution, or CR). “Since Congressional Republicans gained the majority, it has become clear to the American people that they cannot govern effectively. The passage of this, the fourth continuing resolution, is proof of their incompetence. “As I have said before, we are here because Republicans — who control the House, the Senate, and the White House — were unable to pass a full-year government spending bill in 2017. They are doing nothing but, once again, kicking the can down the road because their conference is consumed with confusion and chaos and are led by a President who has been on ‘Executive Time’ and refuses to engage honestly with Democrats. “Make no mistake about it, this funding legislation is filled with insufficiencies that do not address the priorities of the American people. The CR still does not adequately fund Community Health Centers, permanently reauthorize CHIP, address the opioid epidemic, or provide help to the DREAMers counting on DACA to protect their futures. “Why should we trust Republican leadership to act on DACA? Why should we trust Republican leadership to provide long term health care to children? Why should we trust Republican leadership to address an ongoing health crisis? Why should we trust Republican leadership to do what is in the interest of our families’ futures? They have all but proven themselves to be dishonest brokers time and time again. “That is why I voted NO. These priorities must be fully addressed and resolved because that is what the American people sent us here to do. Accordingly, I will continue to join my Democratic colleagues to fight for these principles and ensure that they are enacted.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON — For the fifth time in 30 years, Republicans have shut down the federal government. As the nation braces for the Trump Shutdown, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) called out Republicans for failing to allow a bipartisan solution to keep the government open and meet the needs of the American people. “As the country is forced to recall the anniversary of President Trump’s disastrous first year in office, he is starting his second year with an unnecessary government shutdown. This is an administration driven by chaos and incoherent tweets,” said Rush. “There is one party in charge of the House, the Senate, and the White House and Democrats will not tolerate their deliberate collusion to work against the American people.” In 2013, President Trump called Fox & Friends to lay blame for the GOP government shutdown at the feet of President Obama, saying, “The problems start from the top and have to get solved from the top… The president is the leader, and he’s got to get everybody in a room and he’s got to lead.” In the White House, however, President Trump explicitly called for a shutdown, tweeting in May of 2017, “our country needs a good shutdown.” A government shutdown has stark consequences for the American people. A report issued after the 2013 Republican government shutdown detailed many of the impacts of the shutdown, including: Stopping progress on reducing the massive backlog of veterans’ disability claims; Furloughing two-thirds of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and three-fourths of the National Institutes of Health; Severely limiting flu season surveillance and monitoring; Delaying life-saving FDA food safety inspections; Disrupting 1.2 million private-sector loans to individuals and small businesses; Delaying billions in tax refunds; Shuttering Head Start centers serving 6,300 children; and Destroying 120,000 private-sector jobs and furloughing government workers for a combined 6.6 million days. “The government should be open and working for the American people. The priorities Americans want to see addressed (pensions, DREAMers, health care for kids, and funding of Community Health Centers) aren’t controversial. Democrats in the House are willing to support a funding deal that honors those priorities,” said Rush. “I will continue to do whatever I can to help local families and businesses navigate the uncertainty of the Trump Shutdown. To that end, my offices remain open to help constituents navigate this tumultuous period.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the Republican initiated government shutdown: “This government shutdown is caused by Congressional Republicans who refuse to govern and work across the aisle with Democrats. The only people who suffer in this petty partisan gridlock are the American people. “Their inability to negotiate in good faith for the key priorities of working families highlight the fact that they are led by a President who is not the ultimate dealmaker. “Attempting to bend to a political agenda that only addresses the far right of this country has done nothing but create chaos, uncertainty, and instability. “A shutdown weakens business and consumer confidence and directly impacts hundreds of thousands of government employees. This is irresponsible governance that will have significant economic costs, which could have been avoided. “It is clear that Congressional Republicans not only lack the ability and will to lead, but they are hell-bent in their refusal to permanently reauthorize CHIP (a program that benefits 9 million kids), sufficiently fund Community Health Centers, and protect Dreamers’ futures. “Our nation depends on a functioning government that works on behalf of the American people. It is a sad day when we have to witness the unraveling of institutions because of weak and reckless leadership.” ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the hearing on “LNG Exports and PURPA Modernization” Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: “Mr. Chairman, today we will be examining legislation addressing LNG exports and PURPA modernization. “Mr. Chairman, I must say at the outset that I do have concerns with all three bills before us today. “It is my hope that the majority will work with our side to address each of these issues as we move through the legislative process. “To begin with, Mr. Chairman, HR 4476 would make sweeping changes to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, or PURPA, that would fundamentally alter both its objective and effectiveness. “For the past 40 years this policy has helped to promote the wholesale distribution of electric energy, while increasing energy efficiency, and ensuring that energy consumers receive fair retail rates. “Mr. Chairman, PURPA’s effectiveness has come from its unique role in facilitating competition in the electricity sector and I am concerned that some of the proposed changes under HR 4476 would hamper the law’s ability to achieve its original objectives. “Specifically, Section 4 of HR 4476 would essentially strip away PURPA’s requirement that utilities must purchase power from certain qualifying renewable energy projects, small power production, and cogeneration facilities. “Mr. Chairman, as you know, under current law there is already an exemption from the must-buy provision if FERC determines that a qualifying facility, or QF, has “nondiscriminatory access to” specific market-related conditions. “However, HR 4476 would give certain utilities the ability to refuse to purchase energy from small power producers or provide services to a QF if that utility determines it has no need to purchase such power or the utility procures long-term generation resources through a competitive process and uses integrated resource planning, or IRPs. “Mr. Chairman, H.R. 4476 provides little to no oversight for non-regulated electric utilities or for those operating in states that do not require IRPs. “My concern is that the changes in HR 4476 would replace a system that currently works well in ensuring a competitive environment for smaller, privately-owned energy producers with one that severely reduces competition. “Additionally, Mr. Chairman, I also have concerns regarding both HR 4605 and HR 4606, both of which address the exportation of LNG, and neither of which is really necessary. “While HR 4506 appears to be some sort of sweetheart deal, my issues with HR 4605 surround its elimination of the section prohibiting the import or export of natural gas without prior DOE approval, while also removing longstanding consumer protections. “HR 4605 would also prevent DOE from ensuring that exports of LNG to non-Free Trade Agreement countries are consistent with the public interest. “Mr. Chairman, under this bill information regarding LNG exports would be concealed from the American people, denying them the opportunity to provide input or even know exactly which countries would be receiving this vital product. “It remains unclear, Mr. Chairman, what effect this bill would have on our national security, our domestic natural gas consumers, our manufacturing competitiveness, or American jobs. “So I look forward to engaging today’s witnesses to dig deeper on these important issues and with that I yield the balance of my time.” ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced legislation to direct the Department of the Interior to conduct a study of Fort Pillow to determine if the area would qualify as a unit of the National Park Service. The Battle of Fort Pillow was fought on April 12, 1864, at Fort Pillow in Henning, Tennessee, during the American Civil War. Confederate forces never defeated the Union Navy, but instead perpetrated a heinous massacre at Fort Pillow after violating a temporary truce by looting government buildings and private storefronts surrounding the fort. “It is important to raise the profile of this historical site and I am committed to working with my Congressional colleagues to ensure Fort Pillow gets National Park status,” said Rush. Of the 535 troop garrisoned at Fort Pillow, 262 were African-American troops. 300 people were murdered in cold blood after the post was taken over by rebels. However, it is estimated that, in total, there could have been nearly 400 casualties during the Confederate onslaught. The massacre of Fort Pillow demonstrated to all U.S. African-American troops that surrender was not an option. It became a battle cry and motivation for an estimated 209,000 U.S. African-American troops who fundamentally contributed to the Union’s defeat of the Confederacy. “This recognition will not only bolster knowledge of an important moment in American history, but will also encourage tourism and attract individuals from around the country to visit the Civil War museum, hiking trail, camping ground, and picnic area with the intent of learning about and acknowledging these patriots.” ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced the “Child Marriage Prevention Act.” This bill would clarify definitions relating to marriage under federal law to prevent child marriages. A February 2017 study by Unchained At Last found that, between 2000 and 2010, 248,000 children had been married in the United States, mostly to adult men. “This legislation seeks to stop children from being victimized by the adults who intentionally and systematically prey on minors,” said Rush. “It is distressing to know that children as young as 10 are getting married to adults. This should send a chill down the spine of every American.” “We cannot continue to live in a society where children are being exposed to a lifestyle that is harmful, obscene, and coercive. These are human rights abuses, plain and simple,” said Rush. The research is clear that the impact of child marriages on the lives of minors have long-lasting economic and health consequences.” Studies have shown that a girl who marries young is 31% more likely to live in poverty and women who wed before 18 are at increased risk of developing various psychiatric disorders and face a 23% higher risk of heart attack, diabetes, cancer, and stroke. “These statistics are staggering and Congress must act to ensure that children across this country are protected.” ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced the selection of 12 young men and women from the 1st District of Illinois to receive nominations to America's top service academies. “It is an honor and a privilege to nominate a group of tremendously qualified individuals to our nation’s esteemed service academies,” said Rush. “I’m inspired by these young men and women for their commitment to service, not only to their communities but to our nation. I applaud their intelligence, tenacity, and leadership and I am confident that these individuals will become the future leaders of our country. Thank you all for your commitment to serving our nation.” Following are the 2018 nominees: United States Military Academy at West Point • Abram Camarena (Oak Forest, Illinois; Marist High School) • Matthew Beason (Chicago, Illinois: Lindblom Math and Science Academy) • Joshua Barnes (Chicago, Illinois: Lindblom Math and Science Academy) United States Naval Academy • Trevor Horn (Frankfort, Illinois; Lincoln-Way East Community High School) • Christopher Ferguson (Chicago, Illinois; Walter Payton College Prep) • Jonathan Horak (New Lenox, Illinois; Providence Catholic High School) • Cole Hilliard (Monee, Illinois; Peotone High School) • Sloane Williams (Chicago, Illinois; Kenwood Academy High School) United States Air Force Academy • Jared Bachman (Mokena, Illinois; Lincoln-Way Central Community High School) • Joshua Payton (Chicago, Illinois; Chicago Military Academy at Bronzeville) • Stephen Claud (Chicago, Illinois; Jones College Prep) • Angelo Minetti (New Lenox, Illinois; Lincoln-Way Central Community High School) ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the Republican short-term government funding legislation (also known as the Continuing Resolution, or CR). “It is clear that Congressional Republicans cannot govern and are unwilling to work in a bipartisan manner to address the overdue priorities of the American people. This is the fourth short-term CR Republicans have brought forward in this fiscal year without consulting with Democrats. The deficiencies in their ability to act in the best interest of citizens highlight their gross incompetence. “I find it particularly telling that the GOP-controlled House was able to successfully push through an unpopular tax bill that stacked the deck for the privileged, powerful, and well-connected but ran away from actually addressing the needs of the middle-class. “Republicans hold the House, the Senate, and the White House but have done nothing but let the American people down. They have reduced this country to chaos, ineptitude, and uncertainty. “The Republican Short-Term Continuing Resolution fails to permanently reauthorize CHIP, neglects to adequately fund Community Health Centers, and provides no help to DREAMers counting on DACA to protect their futures. Republicans are doing nothing but kicking the can down the road because they lack leadership. “That is why I voted NO. The Republicans must come to the table with real solutions to face the increasingly urgent issues facing the American people. I remain committed to fighting for health investments, children’s health care, and protecting the future of DREAMers.” ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) will award $300,000 in federal funding to Project Exploration. Project Exploration is a nationally recognized science education and youth development organization that works to ensure Chicago students become immersed in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). This organization is committed to promoting a diversified STEM workforce in Chicago and works to ease the poverty that permeates Chicago’s STEM deserts. “STEM education is the key to enhancing and ensuring that Chicago remains a leader in technology and innovation,” said Congressman Rush. This grant will help broaden participation of African-American and low-income Chicago Public School students (Pre-K–12) in STEM learning opportunities. Natasha Smith-Walker, Executive Director of Project Exploration will lead this effort, which is set to commence February 1st. “I’m proud to know there are organizations committed to providing opportunity that cultivates the talented youth we have in Chicago. I will continue to push for federal funds that ensure our youth will be exposed to the knowledge and experience that will ultimately generate the leaders of tomorrow.” The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. ###
01.12.2018	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement condemning Trump’s inflammatory and racist immigration comments. “It is disgusting and infuriating that the President's remarks about immigration from 'shithole countries' like Haiti, El Salvador, and African countries come on the 8th anniversary of the Haitian earthquake in which more than 200,000 people were killed. “Is the President not aware that immigrants of all races, nationalities, and religions built this country? “These comments not only highlight his pure ignorance, moral turpitude, and lack of judgment but his racism that has been a fixture of his career, campaign, and presidency. “This is the same person who started his career being sued twice by the Department of Justice for racial discrimination because he would not rent apartments to African-Americans. “This is the same person who launched the racist birther movement against the country’s first African-American president, casting doubt on Barack Obama’s birthplace. “This is the same person who began his presidential campaign calling Mexican immigrants rapists, murderers, and criminals. “The President of the United States is racist. “On the weekend where we should be honoring the spirit and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr., who fought for racial equality, we have a President intent on dividing this country. “Everyone should condemn the racist remarks made by the President, especially those who were present in the meeting. Their silence is deafening. I commend Senator Dick Durbin for speaking truth to power. “We cannot continue to let this dangerous President erode this country’s reputation. We must stand up for our nation’s values because it is clear President Trump will not.” ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the passage of S. 139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017. “With this vote, the House has, once again, passed a bill that continues to give government increased power to spy on American citizens without a warrant. “Instead of enacting the constitutional safeguards that the Amash/Lofgren Amendment proposed, and that I support, the bill that passed today means Americans have fewer protections, less oversight, and face an increased risk that their rights will be violated. “All of us here were sent to Congress to support and defend the Constitution, and that means protecting the American people from having their civil liberties infringed upon and not creating the mechanism to do so. “That is why I voted NO. I remain committed to protecting both the United States’ national security and the American people’s privacy and look forward to working towards a solution that accomplishes both of these important needs.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered the following opening remarks today at the hearing on “DOE Modernization: Advancing DOE’s Mission for National, Economic, and Energy Security of the United States” Rush Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery:"Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing on modernizing the Department of Energy. "Mr. Chairman, for constituents such as those I represent, one of the most pressing issues regarding DOE involves the matter of ensuring that the agency is representative of all communities and the needs of all citizens are being addressed. "Through its energy policies and initiatives, including the loan and grant programs, as well as through engagement at the National Labs and access to contracting and vendor opportunities, many of my constituents are constantly seeking ways to break into what has essentially become a type of good ole boys network. "As you are aware, Mr. Chairman, my office worked extensively with former Secretary Moniz to establish the Minorities in Energy Initiative, which was designed to help foster increased minority participation in all sectors of the energy industry. "This initiative was successful in beginning the process of raising awareness and engagement between DOE, industry, and minority communities. "However, Secretary Perry did not seem to even be aware of the program and many of the activities that were established by this initiative seemed to have tapered off. "Mr. Chairman, as we go through this process of modernizing the department, it is imperative that we examine the leadership profile of the agency and work to ensure that there is diversity at the top where most of the decisions and policies are first enacted. "We need more people of color in the top echelons of the department from the Secretary’s office, as well as in the Office of Science, which directs billions of research dollars to higher education institutions. "We need more diversity of people and thought on the Review Boards and the Boards and Council, which are responsible for making key decisions regarding the National Labs among other issues. "Mr. Chairman, when it comes to the National Labs, we need to more women and people of color running these institutions so that decisions regarding increased inclusion and diversity are made inherently, and not simply as an afterthought or as a checklist or as empty, token acts. "Additionally, Mr. Chairman, we need to ensure that the Senior Executive Staff, or the SES, who play pivotal roles in running the department and making important decisions regarding the agency’s policies and priorities also include men and women of color. "Mr. Chairman, it is easy to overlook the importance of these issues if you are not among the groups that have historically been excluded. "But when we are using taxpayer money to fund the labs, or to dole out loans and grants to the same schools and universities, or to provide millions of dollars to contractors and vendors, then it must be incumbent upon us policymakers here in Congress to ensure that everyone is given the same opportunity to share in the wealth and resources. "So Mr. Chairman, I look forward to working with Mr. Barton as well as other members of this Subcommittee to restructure the DOE in a way that addresses the systemic and institutional discrepancies that exist in the agency today. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and withthat I yield back the balance of my time."
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) will award $649,947.00 in federal funding to the Illinois Institute of Technology. The grant will help explore the photophysical properties of organic light harvesting systems to devise next generation organic photonic materials. Professor Anoklase Ayitou of the Department of Chemistry at Illinois Institute of Technology will lead the project, which is set to commence in June. This project will develop an assortment of scientific techniques and Professor Ayitou will mentor and train students who participate in this research. The funding will also provide interactive learning components, which include outreach activities that promote STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) education at Illinois Institute of Technology and in the South Side Communities of Chicago. “It’s thrilling to know these communities will have more exposure to STEM education, which will only enhance the career opportunities of many students,” said Congressman Rush. “This funding promotes innovation in the First District of Illinois and I will continue to advocate for similar resources the federal level.” The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. ###
01.03.2018	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) will award $818,420 in federal funding to the University of Chicago. The grant will allow for key research in molecular and cellular bioscience and will be led by Bryan Dickinson, assistant professor of chemistry. This project will study how biological molecules evolve to interact with one another by developing and applying new rapid laboratory evolution systems. The funding will also provide educational opportunities for students and adults in the Chicago area, with a focus on using the topic of engineering biology to inspire participation in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math). “I am excited to know that Chicagoans will be making innovative breakthroughs in STEM,” said Congressman Rush. “This investment supports a robust learning environment that will solve engineering challenges and cultivate new technological approaches. I am proud to be a champion for our next generation of researchers and scientists and will continue to seek federal research dollars to ensure that the First District of Illinois remains a national leader in innovation.” The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, our nation can develop the knowledge and cutting edge technologies needed to address the challenges we face today and will face in the future. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the passage of the Republican short-term government funding legislation (also known as the Continuing Resolution, or CR). “For the second day in a row, Congressional Republicans have deliberately neglected the American people. Their focus continues to be on padding the pockets of the one percent and corporations at the expense of everyday Americans. This short-term spending bill does nothing to tackle the list of critical, overdue priorities bearing down on the American people. “This hollow, irresponsible, and weak short-term CR leaves children at risk, does not protect DREAMers, and denies adequate funding for the resources our veterans desperately need. Congressional Republicans have abdicated the obligation of everyone in government, to fight for the least amongst us. “Democrats asked for and encouraged bipartisanship and Republicans refused them. In doing so, they have left many Americans facing additional uncertainty. Their careless conduct only strengthens my resolve in continuing to fight and advocate for access to health care by supporting critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers (CHCs), defending DREAMers by supporting passage of the DREAM Act, and working on behalf of veterans who are facing a dire shortfall at the VA. “I wish the same energy that Congressional Republicans put in to celebrating their tax bill was put into the basic responsibilities of governing and meeting the needs of the American people.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), today released the following statement on the passage of the Republican tax bill: “Today, with the passage of the GOP tax bill, Congressional Republicans sided with the wealthiest Americans and corporations. They intentionally left hardworking middle-class households footing the bill to enrich the wealthiest one percent.” “Republicans promised the American people a simpler, fairer tax code. Instead, this bill is more complex, filled with new loopholes, and makes income inequality worse.” “It’s a sad day to see Congressional Republicans cheering for a bill that raises taxes on tens of millions of working- and middle-class households, increases health insurance premiums, and explodes the debt by nearly $2 trillion.” “Congressional Republicans will have to defend their vote for this immoral, irresponsible, and unfair bill and explain why they stood decisively with the wealthy and well-connected. I will continue to fight for the middle-class and look forward to the day when we enact real tax reform that benefits hardworking Americans.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement today pursuant to his NO vote on H.R. 3922, the CHAMPION Act, which would reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP): “My vote today should not be taken as a reflection of any lack of support for CHIP on my part. Instead, it should be seen for what it is: a protest against the Republican majority’s desire to rob Peter to pay Paul. “CHIP is a vital tool in providing health coverage to the youngest Americans. In fact, CHIP is responsible for providing healthcare coverage for 9 million Americans, 1.6 million of which live in Illinois. This program is particularly important in my district where, as the Georgetown University Center for Children and Families estimates, nearly 42% of children have healthcare coverage because of CHIP. “While I strongly support the CHIP program, I cannot support a bill that would cut over $6 billion from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. I cannot support a bill that would force over 600,000 Americans to lose healthcare coverage. I cannot support a bill that would deny seniors access to Medicare. “For these reasons, I voted NO. As we go forward on this issue, I hope we can work together to find agreement on reauthorizing this vital program.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) participated in a Democratic forum of the Energy and Commerce Committee to address Public Health Solutions to Gun Violence. Following the forum, Rush said: “Today’s forum was an important first step in addressing the pandemic of gun violence that plagues communities across our nation. One of today’s biggest lessons is that there is not a ‘one size fits all’ solution to this menace. Instead, we must approach this holistically and work across industries and ideologies to end this.” Video of the forum is available below: ###
10.20.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following letter today reiterating his full support for the disability community: ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) today, released the following statement upon the successful adoption of his amendment to the CHAMPION Act last night: “I am so pleased that my amendment to allow community health centers to participate in the National Institutes of Health’s ‘All of Us’ Research Program was unanimously adopted by my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Unlike research studies that focus on specific diseases or populations, ‘All of Us’ is an ambitious national research project that aims to gather data from over one million people living in the United States. This data will inform thousands of studies, covering a wide variety of health conditions and, ultimately, accelerate research and improve health. “Studies have already shown us that individual differences in lifestyle, environment, and genetic makeup can influence health and disease and this program will allow us to further understand how these differences can affect an individual’s health. “Community Health Centers are at the forefront of addressing health disparities across the country and, therefore, are uniquely situated to gather data from a wide variety of economic, racial, and geographic populations. “I would like to thank my colleagues for their unanimous support and for joining me in recognizing the vital role that our nation’s community health centers can, and do, play.” Rush’s amendment would give community health centers an additional $25 million to participate in this National Institutes of Health led program. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) today, made the following statement to accompany his release of a letter sent by Democratic members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce to Equifax Chairman and CEO, Richard F. Smith: “The information surrounding the Equifax data breach are deeply troubling. At this point, we know that over 100 million Americans had their personal information leaked. This amount alone is staggering. When coupled with the sensitive nature of the data, it is distressing. Given that this happened at one of our nation’s three consumer reporting agency — organizations that play such an influential role in today’s economy — it is downright infuriating. “For these reasons, I am pleased to join my Democratic colleagues in demanding answers from Equifax. This is the first step in determining what went wrong and will help lay an important foundation in preventing future leaks. “I understand that many of my constituents are fearful of what this means to their personal credit and finances. I urge everyone, whether you believe you are impacted or not, to visit the Federal Trade Commission’s website to determine your next steps.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement following Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ announcement that the Trump Administration will rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Program: "I am extremely disappointed in the Trump Administration’s decision to end DACA. We must remember that DACA participants were brought to the United States through no fault of their own and are trying to do what most Americans take for granted: go to school, earn a livable wage, and provide for themselves and their families in order to improve their lives; in short, they are trying to achieve their American dream. "Rescinding this program not only deprives our country of nearly a million talented and driven individuals, it also opens the possibility that program participants will be deported to a country that is foreign to them. A country where they may not know anybody, not speak the language, and not have anywhere to go. Simply put, this is mean-spirited and inhumane. 'I call upon Congressional leadership to immediately begin work to protect these individuals and preserve DACA and I encourage my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to join me in working to save it." ###
08.29.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement today, upon an announcement by Illinois Attorney General, Lisa Madigan, that the State of Illinois would sue the City of Chicago in federal court to secure a judicial order mandating reforms in the Chicago Police Department: “I am cautiously optimistic regarding the City’s decision to support the Illinois Attorney General’s lawsuit asking a federal judge to oversee implementation of the Chicago Police Department’s reforms under a consent decree. By taking this step, the City and the police department will open the door to establishing healthy community and police relations. It will also help reassure Chicago’s citizens that the blue wall of silence that protects rogue officers will be dismantled. “Over the years, the lives of far too many African Americans and other people of color have been significantly altered or completely destroyed by those police officers who operate above the law. Meaningful reforms and independent accountability remain the only hope for building community trust that is vital to effective policing.” Chicago Mayor, Rahm Emanuel, has stated that the City is working in partnership with the State on this issue. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced three new bills that focus on key issues of the energy sector, credit reporting and home loan lenders. Rush introduced H.R. 3540, the Quadrennial Energy Review Act of 2017, H.R. 3538, the Mortgage Sale Transparency Act of 2017 and H.R. 3539, the Mugshots Elimination Act of 2017. “These bills were drafted with my constituents in mind because I represent their needs and serve as a voice on the issues that affect them most,” said Rush. “Each bill directly seeks to increase opportunities for economic growth across the United States. My goal is to improve quality of life and help eliminate hurdles to the American dream.” A synopsis of each bill: Quadrennial Energy Review Act of 2017: The aim of the bill is to amend the Department of Energy Organization Act to replace the current requirement for a biennial energy policy plan with a quadrennial energy review. Congress finds that the development of an energy policy resulting from Quadrennial Energy Review would enhance energy security. In June 2013, President Obama initiated a quadrennial cycle of energy reviews as part of the President’s “Climate Action Plan.” On January 9, 2014, President Obama issued a Presidential Memorandum directing the Administration to conduct a Quadrennial Energy Review (QER). Planned annual installments of the QER over the ensuing four years are to focus on resource extraction and processing, energy transport and storage infrastructure, electricity generation and energy end-use. On April 21, 2015, the first installment of the QER was released, focusing on energy transmission, storage and distribution infrastructure (TS&D). Mortgage Sale Transparency Act of 2017: The bill seeks to amend the Truth in Lending Act to create additional requirements for original and new creditors of mortgage loans in case of sale, transfer or assignment of a mortgage loan. This bill focuses on consumer protections that require banks to provide advance notice of all mortgage sales. The bill will increase the grace period from 30 days to 90 days for a home owner to submit their mortgage payments and protects homeowners from penalties resulting from bank errors. Mugshots Elimination Act of 2017: This bill will amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to establish a procedure for the removal of a booking photograph from a consumer’s file and from websites that financially exploit those seeking redress. Hard-working Americans have been exploited by websites that advertise and sell people’s booking photographs to employers, credit agencies, and home relators. This bill expands the definition of protected information to include booking photograph (a picture taken upon arrest, detention before or during trial, or conviction). ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement in celebration of the 27th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), prohibiting discrimination against individuals with disabilities: “On July 26, 1990, President George H.W. Bush signed this landmark legislation into law and, thereby, made historic progress in the march towards equality. For those in the workplace, this legislation created an opportunity for full participation by requiring employers to provide reasonable accommodations to their employees with disabilities. For the public, at large, this legislation expanded the prohibitions on discrimination that were originally enshrined in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and allowed all Americans to fully engage in their community. “Expansion of these protections marked a monumental shift for individuals in our community with a disability. With the enactment of this law, the burden of responsibility was shifted from members of the public to the providers that seek to serve them. “While the ADA has greatly increased accessibility for individuals with disabilities, providing the time, ability and flexibility for small businesses to comply is also important. “In cosponsoring H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017, my aim is to provide small businesses with adequate time to make the necessary improvements to accommodate those with disabilities. It was never my intent to undermine the mission of the Americans with Disabilities Act. After hearing from the disability community, I understand that this bill needs work. Therefore, should it come for a vote, as is, I will oppose it. “We must ensure that the legacy of the Americans with Disabilities Act is not hindered and I will continue to fight to defend it.” ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after Senate Republicans voted on a procedural motion that would begin debate to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare): “It is extremely disappointing to witness the votes of 50 Senate Republicans change the entire healthcare landscape for millions of Americans. Far too many of our most vulnerable fellow citizens stand to lose desperately needed healthcare coverage, face tremendous increases in their insurance premiums and have fewer health care insurance options available to them in the marketplace. “Americans deserve better.” ###
07.20.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will keynote the Alliance to Save Energy’s Policy Perspectives Breakfast on Friday, July 21, 2017. The event will be held from 9 to 10:30 am at the Civic Opera Building, Suite 1301, 20 North Upper Wacker Dr. The event focuses on discussions about energy efficiency policy and the potential impact on key industry stakeholders, businesses and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Rush serves as the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Subcommittee on Energy. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) who serves as Ranking Member on the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee submitted a bipartisan amendment along with Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.) at today’s full committee markup. The Amendment to H.R. 3050, filed by Reps. Upton and Rush, intends to update the Energy Policy and Conservation Act that provides federal financial assistance to states to implement, review and revise energy security plans. The amendment was adopted by the full committee. Rush stated, “I also want to voice my strong support for the Upton-Rush Amendment to the bill, which simply adds tribes as stakeholders to the multi-state and regional coordination planning and response, and also allows states to enter into public–private partnership when developing their energy security plans. These energy security plans play an instrumental role in improving the states’ abilities to identify potential energy disruptions, quantify the effects of energy disruptions, establish response plans and limit the risk of future disturbances. “These security plans take into account multiple factors such as statewide energy needs, current energy assets, workforce issues and access to renewables and energy efficiency initiatives. Having states draft these emergency plans helps them identify the legal authorities and responsibilities spelled out between federal, state and local agencies in cases of emergencies. These plans also help to coordinate emergency response measures between state and local governments, as well as with industry and various emergencies agencies. Additionally, the grants from this bill can be used to conduct state and regional enhanced training exercises in order to help mitigate the risks of having energy disruptions and respond to these emergencies in a timely fashion if and when they do occur. These state energy security plans can play pivotal roles in protecting lives and livelihoods, as well as state and regional economies against potential energy disasters, whether they be physical or cyber, natural or manmade.” Rush commended the full committee for working with the minority side in drafting this bill. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) cosponsored the Deborah Sampson Act (H.R. 2452) to fully recognize and support women veterans. Illinois is home to over 646,000 veterans, of which 49,353 are women. The Deborah Sampson Act aims to fill critical gaps in VA care for women vets, including funding peer-to-peer assistance and improve legal and support services, data tracking and reporting and newborn medical care in addition to changing the VA’s non-inclusive motto. “Women contribute greatly to our nation’s armed forces which requires the right recognition for their service. I am pleased to support legislation that provides funding and much needed resources to care for our women veterans,” said Rush. The Deborah Sampson Act does the following: Changes the dated and exclusionary VA motto that currently reads, “To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and for his orphan.”; Empowers women veterans by expanding peer-to-peer counseling, group counseling and call centers for women veterans; Improves the quality of care for infant children of women veterans by increasing the number of days of maternity care VA facilities can provide and authorizing medically-necessary transportation for newborns; Eliminates barriers to care by increasing the number of gender-specific providers and coordinators in VA facilities, training clinicians, and retrofitting VA facilities to enhance privacy and improve the environment of care for women veterans; Provides support services for women veterans seeking legal assistance and authorizes additional grants for organizations supporting low-income women veterans; and Improves the collection and analysis of data regarding women and minority veterans, and expands outreach by centralizing all information for women veterans in one easily accessible place on the VA website. More than 345,000 women have deployed since 9/11. Women are the fastest-growing segment of the veteran population and that trend will continue as the number of male veterans simultaneously declines over the next decades. However, many female veterans are left without the proper care to support their needs when they return from their service. The Deborah Sampson Act is an important step in providing female veterans the care they deserve. ###
06.16.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after President Trump’s announcement on changes to U.S.–Cuba relations: “Essentially, President Trump is taking the country backwards in his approach to foreign relations. The president’s latest decision hurts American business and their opportunity for growth and expansion. We live in a global economy where American businesses must compete with other nations for trade and jobs creation. “This latest assault on U.S. foreign policy also restricts the American people’s ability to interface with Cubans and to share our rich culture and limits the exchange of ideas and cultural understanding. “The United States cannot and should not isolate itself from our neighbors. We must, instead, strengthen our ties with countries around the world.” ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after a gunman opened fire on a practice for the Congressional Baseball Game: “My thoughts and prayers are with Whip Steve Scalise, the Congressional Staff, Capitol Police and others all affected by this morning’s horrible shooting. “We are grateful for the heroism of the Capitol Police who saved countless lives. We are united in our hopes and prayers for the wounded.” ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the D.C. Circuit Court’s 2–1 decision in Global Tel*Link v. FCC to strike down a rule that capped the intrastate rates for inmate phone calls: “In February, I sent a letter to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) General Counsel, Mr. Brendan Carr. I asked Mr. Carr to explain the FCC’s decision not to defend, in whole, its prison phone rate letter in federal court. As a result, today, the D.C. Circuit court decision sides with carceral conglomerates placing families at risk to incur costly fees to phone incarcerated loved ones. “Our goal in Congress is to protect the American public from deregulation where companies have free range to charge exorbitant fees for simple services. We do not want families financially drained to phone their loved ones. We also do not want incarcerated individuals to feel alone because they cannot communicate with their families. “I urge FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to work with his colleagues at the Commission, Congress and all stakeholders to address the problem of high inmate calling rates.” ###
06.12.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House floor to discuss passage of H.R. 338 — To Promote a 21st Century Energy and Manufacturing Workforce. This bill directs the Secretary of Energy to prioritize the training of underrepresented groups, including minorities, women, and veterans, as well as displaced and unemployed energy and manufacturing workers, in order to increase the number of skilled candidates trained to work in these related fields. Rush stated on the House floor, “This bill will strengthen and more fully engage Department of Energy programs and national laboratories in order to carry out the Department’s workforce development initiatives. American need a jobs bill that will benefit all communities and help lift up the entire economy as the energy and manufacturing industries are two of the most critical and fastest growing sectors both domestically, as well as internationally. “One of the challenges that many of my constituents have brought to my attention pertain to individuals participating in training programs that in many cases do not always lead to actually finding a job. With that in mind, this bill will help industry, schools, and community-based workforce organizations to identify candidates for enrollment into training and apprenticeship programs.” This legislation will help to develop a skilled labor force, trained to work in a wide array of sectors, including renewables, energy efficiency, oil and gas, coal, nuclear, utility, pipeline, alternative fuels, as well as energy-intensive and advanced manufacturing industries. The 21st Century Workforce legislation addresses an issue that is neither partisan nor bipartisan, but rather is a nonpartisan issue that benefits communities, industry, and the overall American economy. This bill brings together government agencies, including the national labs, the energy and manufacturing industries, unions, schools, community colleges, and universities, among others, and promotes cooperation and collaboration to make sure that we are tapping into a wealth of underutilized talent and training and preparing workers for the energy and manufacturing jobs of the present and future. The objective will be to ensure that the skills learned are immediately transferable to good-paying jobs and careers within the energy and manufacturing sectors, regionally, nationally, and indeed all across the globe. ###
06.09.2017	“Words are too insufficient for the loss of life taking place in our city, Chicago. I am truly heartbroken to learn that my dear friend, Nykea Pippion-McGriff, lost her son, Xavier Joy. “As the parent of a son who was also killed by gun violence, I can empathize with Nykea’s family and all the families across my district and the Nation who have experienced this tragedy. No parent should have to experience a loss such as this. “Xavier recently returned home to serve his community. He was the type of young man that we all want our children to grow up to be and his life was taken while doing something so many Americans take for granted every day: returning home from work. “My thoughts and prayers are with Nykea’s family and the families across America who mourn those lost to senseless violence. “We deserve better. We are better.” ###
06.01.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement after President Trump’s decision to pull out of the landmark, 195-signatory Paris Climate Accord: “The United States, the world’s largest economy and second-largest greenhouse gas polluter, will not dissolve the 195-nation pact with the decision to pull out. However, this action sets off a chain of events that will have profound effects on the planet. The Paris Climate Accord is a historic international agreement that brought the world together to put a halt to increasing global emissions and address the real effects of climate change. “The president’s decision puts the U.S. at odds with nearly every other nation on earth. In walking away from this agreement, the President is denying scientific truths and removing safeguards that protect our health and our environment. “The Paris Accord respects our global responsibility to make our planet habitable for future generations. This agreement will inspire future generations to care for our planet collectively and work cohesively with other nations. Cutting carbon pollution is of critical importance in bringing cleaner, more reliable energy to Americans and people around the world. This commitment to protecting our environment would not only cut pollution, but also save families money on their energy bills in the future.” ###
05.26.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will join hundreds of attendees at the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery for a Memorial Day Commemorative Service to recognize and honor our nation’s servicemembers who died in service to the country. The ceremony will take place at the flagpole at 11:30 a.m. on the cemetery grounds, 20953 West Hoff Road, Elwood. “The freedom we enjoy and, too often, take for granted as U.S. citizens, comes at a cost, a tremendous cost. Throughout America’s history, brave men and women, dedicated to protecting the American way of life, have left their families and friends to fight for the preservation of our democracy. Some have even made the ultimate sacrifice of giving their life, a gift we can never repay,” said Rep. Rush. “So, it is my honor to join citizens around the nation as we pause to honor the brave men and women who gave their best to our nation and salute all who have served our country around the world in the name of freedom and democracy.” ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. House Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2018: “President Trump is waging an all-out attack on the families and individuals who voted him into office. ‘A New Foundation for American Greatness’ is a budget proposal that cuts deeply into programs for the poor, from health care and food stamps to student loans and disability payments. My constituents are in need of many of the services and programs that Trump intends to severely reduce or eliminate. These funding cuts would create gaping holes in services to the needy and exacerbate existing budget woes in the State of Illinois. “The President plans to slash more than $800 billion from Medicaid in addition to removing $192 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), essentially leaving thousands of children to go hungry in American households receiving assistance. The budget will also slice $272 billion overall from welfare programs and cut $72 billion from disability benefits. “Trump would eliminate loan programs that subsidize college education for the poor and those who take jobs in government or nonprofit organizations. His budget proposal uses language such as ‘encourage those individuals dependent on the government to return to the workforce’ which undermines millions of Americans who go to work every day, but cannot make ends meet. “The budget eliminates the Social Services Block Grant (SSBG), a broad-based block grant that helps families and individuals achieve economic self-sufficiency by keeping parents and children together and preventing institutionalization. Relatedly, the budget reduces a portion of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant by 10 percent. This would leave the State of Illinois on the hook for programs that lose funding. “Finally, the budget would eliminate (1) LIHEAP, a federal program that prevents utility companies from disconnecting service to families in need, (2) cost of living increases for Social Security recipients and (3) funding for analysis and mapping of flood risks. All of these proposed budget cuts would place Illinois and other states under the weight of a tremendous financial burden. “We need a President who will fight for middle- and working-class families. Americans are hurting and President Trump’s budget seeks to further increase the burgeoning financial despair among the nation’s neediest families.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), who serves as Ranking Member on the Energy Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, helped draft infrastructure legislation to bring federal funding to Illinois’ roads,bridges and much more. The Leading Infrastructure for Tomorrow’s America Act, or LIFT America Act, (H.R. 2479) includes key areas within the Committee’s jurisdiction that address broadband, drinking water, healthcare, the electric grid, brownfields and renewable energy infrastructure. The LIFT America Act sets out five years of funding for essential infrastructure improvements in order to promote job growth and enact greater protections for public health and the environment. “This infrastructure package will put money into the hands of struggling states that need funding for the continuation of road maintenance, to deploy broadband in unserved areas, to promote sustainable infrastructure and to improve financial and environmental management of water systems. The LIFT America Act also will help address the need for more minority contractors and workers to receive opportunities for jobs and contracts across the state of Illinois.” The LIFT America Act includes investments in several key areas including: $40 billion for the deployment of secure and resilient broadband to expand access for communities nationwide while promoting security by design; $22.56 billion for drinking water infrastructure to protect public health and create jobs, including increased investment in drinking water State Revolving Funds and additional funding to replace lead service lines, address lead in school drinking water, and prepare for the impacts of climate change; Over $17 billion for energy infrastructure, including $4 billion for modern, secure, efficient and resilient electric grid infrastructure, $9 billion for resilient and renewable energy supply including methane pipeline replacement and more than $4 billion for energy efficiency efforts and smart communities; More than $3 billion for healthcare infrastructure, to revive the successful Hill-Burton hospital infrastructure program, fund medical facilities in Indian Country, support state labs on the frontlines of fighting Zika and other infectious diseases and expand community based health care facilities; $2.7 billion for Brownfields redevelopment to revitalize communities and create jobs by returning valuable land to productive use; The LIFT America Act will invest in programs with proven records of job creation, including the drinking water State Revolving Fund and the Brownfields Redevelopment program. The legislation requires the use of American-made iron and steel for drinking water projects and hospital construction and requires the payment of prevailing wages. The bill will also spur new high-paying technology jobs by supporting deployment of smart buildings, Smart Grid and Smart Communities technology. The LIFT America Act also provides much-needed funding to repair and replace aging infrastructure that will have significant public health benefits, especially for children. The bill includes funding to get lead out of school drinking water, replace polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-laden lighting fixtures with safer and more energy efficient alternatives in schools and reduce diesel emissions from school buses. A section-by-section of the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after former FBI Director Robert Mueller was appointed as special counsel: “I applaud the Department of Justice (DOJ) for taking steps in the right direction by appointing a special counsel to oversee the investigation of Russian efforts to influence the 2016 Presidential elections. We have long suspected ties between Russian operatives and this White House Administration that date back to the 2016 presidential election. Now Congress and the American people will have the opportunity to receive detailed information on the facts of what took place during last year’s election cycle. After the firing of the former FBI Director James Comey, there was an outcry from myself, the Democratic Illinois delegation and many more calling for a special counsel. I stand for any decision that moves this country toward more transparency in our government.” ###
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) and Danny K. Davis (IL-07) sent a letter to Secretary DeVos urging the Department of Education to reconsider its staunch position on application submissions with minor errors for its Upward Bound Grant Program. Illinois had the highest number of Upward Bound applications that were rejected for frivolous reasons, including at least 12 statewide organizations out of 77 nationwide. The Department denied these Upward Bound Grant applications due to minor formatting concerns — such as spacing, font and format of the file uploaded — that have no material effect on the substance of the 65-page applications. “Upward Bound serves members of my constituency in a way that levels the playing field in education. This grant and others like it prepare low-income students in college preparation course work. Whether it be healthcare or education policy, we are witnessing within this Administration a common theme of exclusion and ignoring the plight of diverse and less affluent constituencies by decision-makers in favor of those with more influence and sway. The deadline for the applications process quickly approaches and we cannot afford to lose any worthy applicants who already face uncertainty due to overall declining educational funding,” said Rush. “Outstanding institutions such as the University of Chicago and Roseland Community Institute of Positive Development are affected by the Department’s decision.” “The program description of the Upward Bound Grant states: “Upward Bound serves: high school students from low-income families; and high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor’s degree,” said Davis. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which participants complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education. “It is utterly incomprehensible why the Department would want to place additional arbitrary barriers before these students, barriers which are not based on evaluating either the quality or the track record of the programs or of the needs of the potential students.” In part, the letter states that the Department’s rigid policies will cost Illinois millions of dollars, deny thousands of low-income and first-generation students’ critical preparation for higher education and weaken dozens of institutions and communities. ###
05.09.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will receive an Honorary Doctorate of Humanities, honoris causa, from the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) for his outstanding contributions to Chicago. The ceremony will take place on Saturday, May 13, 2017 at 10 a.m. A multidisciplinary committee of faculty and administrative leaders selected Rush for this honor. The Honorary Doctorate is the highest accolade that the university bestows on an individual for accomplishments in the technical, professional and humanitarian fields. Illinois Tech is a private, Ph.D.-granting research university with programs in engineering, science, architecture, law, human sciences, design, business and applied technology. More than 7,800 graduate and undergraduate students study at IIT. Rush received a master’s degree in political science from the University of Illinois and a Masters of Theology from McCormick Theological Seminary. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) cosponsored the Stop Arming Terrorists Act to prohibit the United States Government from providing money to foreign militias that have ties to terrorist organizations. The U.S. currently uses taxpayer money to arm foreign organizations with the intent of advancing U.S. foreign policy. The government has provided money, weapons and intelligence support that directly or indirectly assist terrorist organizations including al-Qaeda and ISIS. These funds allowed terrorist organizations to establish strongholds throughout the Middle East. “We cannot continue to indirectly fund the same terror organizations that we fight against. This is counterintuitive and destroys the very foundation of our country’s foreign policy. The U.S. cannot be complicit in the spread of terror throughout the world by providing any form of support to partners with extremist ties,” said Rush. The bill suggests that the CIA has long supported terrorist groups. The Agency is credited with providing salaries, weapons, intelligence including surface to air missiles. Rush supports the bill’s intent to bring a halt to such government funding. Immediate changes would include making it illegal for any U.S. federal government funds to be used to provide assistance to terrorists. In addition, the bill requires the Director of National Intelligence to determine the individual and groups that should be considered terrorists. ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) is expected to send a formal letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions asking him to rescind his memorandum to Justice Department officials ordering a review of consent decrees with local law enforcement agencies, including Chicago. The move indicates citizens protections against police brutality, misconduct, civil rights violations and fatal shootings may be in jeopardy. Yesterday evening, Rush offered impassioned remarks on the House floor denouncing Sessions’ effort as he evoked the names of Chicago police shooting victims Rekia Boyd and Laquan McDonald, along with others killed by law enforcement in disturbing cases around the country. His floor statement also commemorated the 49th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who was murdered April 4, 1968 while supporting striking sanitation workers in Memphis, TN. Rush said, “I … demand that Attorney General Sessions retreat from his position, that he stop this memorandum from circulating in the department, and that he see the light of day that many innocent American citizens are being killed because of the wayward actions of those police officers who think that they are above the law. They can’t just continue to kill wantonly and think that they are above the American law and the American Constitution.” The full text of Congressman Rush’s remarks (as reported in the Congressional Record) and a copy of his letter follow: “Mr. Speaker, today marks the 49th anniversary of one of the darkest days in the history of this Nation: the day that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., America’s drum major for justice, was assassinated. “Dr. King was murdered while standing on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968. He was there to advocate for the rights of Black sanitation workers who were fighting for their dignity: for equal pay, for equal treatment, and for racial justice in the American workplace. “In one of the dimmest hours in our history, a voice of reason, a voice of mercy, a voice of compassion, a voice for justice, a voice of the beloved community was silenced. Yet, Mr. Speaker, his work to hold the United States to its constitutional promises that are rooted in the very fabric of our Declaration of Independence remains largely incomplete. “As you know, Mr. Speaker, America remains a divided nation, even more so now. We are tremendously disconnected from the ideals set forth by Dr. King’s monumental “I Have a Dream” speech. Today, we still live in two Americas: one white and privileged, another filled with people of color, the poor, the disabled, and those lost in the margins, where people of color — Black and Brown — continue to be judged by the color of their skin rather than the content of their character. “In the year 2017, Mr. Speaker, we find the names of countless men and women who have lost their lives at the hands of too many law enforcement officials and too many police departments all across this country. Those individuals, Mr. Speaker, are now etched in the social justice history of this Nation because they were first judged by the color of their skin and not by the content of their character. “The list is far-reaching, Mr. Speaker. I am speaking of Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Freddie Gray, Laquan McDonald, Alton Sterling, Philando Castile, Rekia Boyd, Tanisha Anderson, Yvette Smith, Shereese Francis, and, lastly, 4-year-old Aiyana Stanley-Jones and so many, many others. I could go on and on and on, but the names of the men, women, and children victimized by errant and wayward police departments all across this Nation would keep us here for days, even months, if we were to recite them all. “These stalwart young citizens are joined also by the many martyrs who lost their lives in the struggle for American justice, just like Dr. King: Viola Liuzzo; Emmett Till; Jimmie Lee Jackson; Medgar Evers; Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner; the four little girls in Birmingham, Alabama; Fred Hampton; and many, many others who gave their lives during the fifties and sixties. “In my hometown of Chicago, Mr. Speaker, the killing of Laquan McDonald rocked our city and the Nation by pulling the scab off a festering wound of police relations and the Black community. “McDonald’s death by 16 shots from a single police weapon fired by a police officer led to multiple investigations of previous police-involved shootings and also sparked the investigation by the United States Department of Justice under then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. That investigation concluded that the Chicago Police Department officers engage “in a pattern or practice of using force, including deadly force,” that is a unreasonable. This report also found the Chicago Police Department has failed to hold officers accountable when they use force contrary to Department policy or otherwise commit misconduct. “To put it bluntly, Mr. Speaker, the Department of Justice found and reported that the Chicago Police Department engages in force in violation of the United States Constitution. “Mr. Speaker, I am here today because I am just beside myself. I am angry. I am so fed up, Mr. Speaker, because I learned recently that Attorney General Jefferson Sessions has issued a memorandum ordering officials at the Justice Department to review police reform consent agreements all across the country, including the agreement that is being negotiated with the City of Chicago. “Mr. Speaker, our Nation has fallen so very, very far. Dr. King’s dream has not been realized in this Nation. The day before his assassination — this Attorney General has retreated so very, very far from the high ideals of American justice. “It is proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that police agencies — not all police officers, not all agencies, not all departments — but there are too many police departments, too many law enforcement officials, too many police officers who have wantonly killed innocent young men of color in this Nation, and it did not just begin in this year. It has been going on for decades. We are now at a point where some departments have been placed under a consent decree. The U.S. Attorney is now trying to retreat from that pattern. “I am here, Mr. Speaker, to ask — to demand — that Attorney General Sessions retreat from his position, that he stop this memorandum from circulating in the department, and that he see the light of day that many innocent American citizens are being killed because of the wayward actions of those police officers who think that they are above the law. They can’t just continue to kill wantonly and think that they are above the American law and the American Constitution.” ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) acknowledged the 49th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. by urging his colleagues to support the Paycheck Fairness Act. The civil rights martyr was assassinated April 4, 1968 in Memphis, TN, while in the city to support striking sanitation workers — a date that today is recognized as Equal Pay Day across the country. Noting that the gender pay gap hurts women and families, Rush said, “I stand with my colleagues in resisting all forms of discrimination — including the very real pay gap that impacts women and families across our nation. That’s why I support the Paycheck Fairness Act — and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle ought to do the same. Women are nearly half of the workforce, but still earn only on average about 80 percent of what men earn. And, statistics show the pay gap is worse for women of color. “African American women working full-time, year-round on average still earn only 63 cents for every dollar earned by white, non-Hispanic men,” said Rush, who is a cosponsor of the legislation. “Latinas working full-time, year-round on average still earn only 54 cents for every dollar earned by white, non-Hispanic men. Here we are 49 years after the murder of Dr. King and nearly 100 years after women won the right to vote and we are still battling massive levels of inequity and gender bias.” The gender pay gap is not simply due to women’s “choices,” as skeptics claim. An analysis by the National Women’s Law Center found that in 108 out of 111 occupations, the median weekly earnings of women are lower than the earnings of men. Based on today’s wage gap, a 20-year-old woman just starting full time work today stands to lose a total of $418,800 over a 40-year career compared to her male counterpart. “Rather than working with Democrats to promote equal pay, House Republicans have voted nine times since 2013 to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from being considered on the House Floor,” Rush said. “The Paycheck Fairness Act means true progress in the fight to eliminate the gender wage gap and help families. The Act ensures that employers who try to justify paying a man more than a woman for the same job must show the disparity is not sex-based, but job related and necessary.” ###
03.28.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement following President Trump’s executive order undermining President Obama’s Climate Action Plan: “Today, President Trump continued on his destructive agenda of taking America backwards. With today’s executive order, the President is singlehandedly attempting to undo years of commonsense Obama-era policies that were put in place to protect our nation’s air, land and water and to mitigate against the worst impacts of climate change. Like many other heartless and thoughtless proposals put forward by this Administration, low income communities and communities of color will undoubtedly be disproportionately impacted by these backwards-looking policies. “From attempting to dismantle the Clean Power Plan, which would have reduced our nation’s carbon footprint, to repealing the ‘social cost of carbon’ requirement for federal agencies to consider when enacting policy, the President’s shortsighted executive order jeopardizes the public health while only benefitting a select few in the fossil fuel industries. The President should be looking forward by implementing policies that would increase jobs and trade opportunities by promoting and investing in cleaner, more sustainable energy sources of the future. “Instead of ensuring that the United States continues to play an important role, established under President Obama, in rallying the world towards a more sustainable future, President Trump is forfeiting that leadership and instead putting the future at risk for all of our children and grandchildren.” ###
03.13.2017	CHICAGO — With great sadness, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced the passing of his wife Carolyn, 67, who died this morning of congestive heart failure at the University of Chicago Hospital. “Today I have lost my best friend, the love of my life, my confidant and my best half,” said Rush, who was at her bedside, along with her children, when she died. “This is one of the most difficult days of my life. If there is any comfort at all, it is in knowing that Carolyn is no longer suffering and that she has returned to our Father in Heaven. I will always cherish her. She was everything to me. I am devastated.” He also said, “I want to thank everyone for their outpouring of love and support over the last several months as Carolyn’s health faded. I want to commend the University of Chicago’s medical staff who provided excellent care for her for the duration of her illness. “I also express my sincerest appreciation to my colleagues in Congress, and to my constituents for understanding why it was so important for me to be with my wife when I also had to be in Washington. Choosing to be with her until the very end was really no choice for me at all. As her husband it was my duty and as a man of God it was also my responsibility to be by her side,” Rush reflected. “Carolyn never left my side when I was diagnosed with cancer. She’s the reason I’m still here. I will forever miss my friend.” Born May 27, 1949 in Memphis, Tennessee, Carolyn Rush moved to Chicago at an early age. She graduated from Hirsch High School and later graduated with high honors with a Bachelors of Art in Organizational Leadership from Roosevelt University in Chicago. In addition to her work as a community organizer, precinct captain and political strategist in many campaigns, she was also instrumental in the Civil Rights Movement working to end discrimination in housing and employment. Mrs. Rush and her husband U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush, have a blended family of seven children (one son is deceased), and 11 grandchildren. The couple were married for 36 years. Funeral arrangements are pending and there is no further information at this time. ###
03.10.2017	CHICAGO — The office of Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following fact sheet about the impact of “TrumpCare” on Illinois and the 1st Congressional District if Republicans are successful in dismantling the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Illinois stands to lose $3.2 billion in federal funding. “The elimination of the Medicaid expansion will strip medical coverage from 637,056 Illinoisans and $3.2 billion in federal Medicaid funding from the state as a whole,” Rush said. “Abolishing the Medicaid expansion will prevent 55,000 of my constituents from accessing affordable health care and will have a detrimental impact on them and our society as a whole. The “Make America Sick Again” proposals from the Republicans will face a vigorous challenge when it reaches the full House.” Roughly 20 million Americans have gained access to health care through the coverage provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), including subsidized coverage through the insurance Marketplaces and the ACA’s historic Medicaid expansion. President Trump and congressional Republicans’ plan to repeal the ACA would have devastating effects on these individuals and their families. This fact sheet summarizes what is at stake in Illinois in the affordable health care repeal debate as Republicans in Congress consider eliminating many of the ACA’s provisions through a process known as budget reconciliation. Repealing or weakening the law could reverse historic gains in coverage and access to care and endanger the health and welfare of hundreds of thousands of individuals and their families in Illinois. Here’s what at risk in the 1st Congressional District: The district’s uninsured rate has gone from 13.9% to 6.8% since the ACA was implemented. This 7.2 percentage point drop in the uninsured rate could be reversed if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 337,500 individuals in the district who now have health insurance that covers preventive services like cancer screenings and flu shots without any copays, coinsurance, or deductibles stand to lose this access if the Republican Congress eliminates ACA provisions requiring health insurers to cover important preventive services without cost-sharing. 387,300 individuals in the district with employer-sponsored health insurance are at risk of losing important consumer protections like the prohibition on annual and lifetime limits, protection against unfair policy rescissions, and coverage of preexisting health conditions, if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 19,400 individuals in the district who have purchased high quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the Marketplaces. 13,900 individuals in the district who received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016 are now at risk of coverage becoming unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 9,200 individuals in the district who are receiving cost-sharing reductions to lower out-of-pocket costs such as deductibles, copays, and coinsurance, are now at risk of health care becoming unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates cost-sharing reductions. 48,900 individuals in the district who are covered by the ACA’s Medicaid expansion now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. Here is what is at risk in the State of Illinois: 1,106,000 individuals in the state who have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented could lose their coverage if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 335,243 individuals in the state who purchased high quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the exchanges. 259,701 individuals in the state who received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $237 per individual, are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 671,100 individuals in the state who enrolled in Medicaid under the ACA’s Medicaid expansion now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 163,000 kids who have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented are also at risk of having their coverage rolled back. 91,000 young adults in the state who were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. 156,469 individuals in the state who received cost-sharing reductions to lower out-of-pocket costs such as deductibles, copays, and coinsurance are now at risk of having healthcare become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates cost-sharing reductions. 5,883,105 individuals in the state who now have private health insurance that covers preventive services without any copays, coinsurance, or deductibles stand to lose this access if the Republican Congress eliminates ACA provisions requiring health insurers to cover important preventive services without cost-sharing. Women in the state who can now purchase insurance for the same price as men are at risk of being charged more for insurance if the Republican Congress eliminates the ACA’s ban on gender rating in the individual and small group markets. Before the ACA, women paid up to 55% more than men for their health insurance. Roughly 2,038,000 individuals in the state who have preexisting health conditions are at risk of having their coverage rescinded, being denied coverage, or being charged significantly more for coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the ACA’s ban on preexisting conditions. The state is at risk of losing $3.37 billion in federal Medicaid dollars if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 196,727 seniors who have saved an average of $1,041 each as a result of closing the Medicare prescription drug “donut hole” gap in coverage stand to lose this critical help going forward. 1,185,594 seniors who have received free preventive care services thanks to ACA provisions requiring coverage of annual wellness visits and eliminating cost-sharing for many recommended preventive services covered by Medicare Part B, such as cancer screenings, are at risk of losing access to these services if congressional Republicans go forward with their plan to repeal the ACA. ###
03.09.2017	CHICAGO — Today, the House Energy & Commerce Committee passed the Republican’s “Pay More for Less” repeal bill. U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) reacted strongly to the GOP’s latest offensive on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that will render millions of Americans without medical coverage. Illinois ranks number 48 in receiving Medicaid matching funds, with more than 212,022 enrollees in the 1st Congressional District alone. “This draconian effort by the Republicans has a long way to go before this becomes law of the land,” Rush said. “Although ‘Pay More For Less’ passed the Energy and Commerce Committee (and will likely get through the Budget Committee), this assault on American health care will face a difficult challenge when it reaches the full House of Representatives. “The American people will not sit by and have their rights reduced while the wealthy secure increases,” said Rush. “Elimination of the Medicaid expansion will strip medical coverage from 637,056 Illinoisans and $3.2 billion in federal Medicaid funding from the State of Illinois. Abolishing the Medicaid expansion will prevent 55,000 of my constituents from accessing affordable health care and will have a detrimental impact on them and our society as a whole. These once-again newly uninsured individuals will be forced to rely on the already overburdened community health centers and other public health providers where the cost will ultimately be borne by every other American. “I will stand in opposition of any legislation that punishes poor people, the elderly, the disabled, women and children. I’ve spent my entire life fighting for the least of these to receive quality health care and I don’t intend to stop fighting now,” Rush said. ###
03.06.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) lambasted Republicans who seek to demolish the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and render millions of Americans without access to affordable health care. The legislator accused his colleagues of playing childish games with the lives of the elderly, the disabled, children and working families. “We’ve heard rumors of drastic changes to the ACA and from what I’ve heard they will scare the hell out of anybody who desperately needs health insurance coverage,” Rush said. “The Republicans are playing peak-a-boo with seniors, the disabled, women and children — and are acting like vampires waiting for the sun to go down so they can make their move on those they perceive weaker than them. We’re here to protect the public’s interests and not wind up as cheerleaders for private profits.” A recent analysis issued by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) estimated that 18 million Americans would lose their health insurance in just the first year following repeal, even if the law' s market reforms are kept in place. The CBO and JCT predict that 32 million fewer people would have health insurance by 2026. The Urban Institute has reached similar conclusions: if the ACA is even partially repealed, the number of uninsured Americans would increase by approximately 30 million in 2019, a 103 percent increase. In a letter to U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-Ore.), chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. Rush joined his fellow Democrats on the Committee in saying that he was “deeply concerned by [the Chairman’s] decision to move forward with the markup in the absence of a CBO score of the bill. The decisions we make on health care will have real and drastic consequences on our constituents, their communities, and state and local economies. “My constituents have asked Congress to focus on raising wages, creating good-paying jobs and ensuring everyone has access to capital and equal opportunity,” Rep. Rush said. “Instead, Republicans have declared all-out war on the public’s health by putting insurance companies back in charge, raising premiums, ripping guaranteed benefits away and eliminating other essential protections.” ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 1272 the “Cold Case Record Collections Act of 2017” to help bring justice and closure to unsolved cases stemming from the Civil Rights era. This act allows for citizens to request certain documents from civil rights cold cases to be declassified. Currently, the classification of these documents prevents private citizens from investigating decades old cases that are still unsolved, and are unlikely to be solved exclusively by federal agencies, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the U.S. Justice Department (DOJ). “There are far too many unsolved crimes from the Civil Rights Movement that remain a mystery yet there is critical information found in federal case files,” Rush said. “Families and people in general deserve to know what has happened to bring closure and justice to those involved.” Approximately 113 civil rights cold cases remain unsolved. Up until now, almost none of the cold cases solved were done exclusively by federal agencies. Cases that were solved required the help of outside investigators. Additionally, these investigators required access to documents from agencies such as the FBI and DOJ in order to solve their cases. The Cold Case Record Collections Act of 2017 provides a more efficient method of declassifying and releasing such documents to the public. This will, in turn, enable outside investigators to be able to solve cold cases more often as they will have access to more documents. The Cold Case Record Collections Act of 2017 establishes the following: The “Civil Rights Cold Case Records Collection” at the National Archives. An independent agency known as the Cold Case Records Review Board. Guidelines for the Cold Case Records Review Board to follow. Rules and requirements for appointments to the Cold Case Records Review Board. Procedures for the approval of declassification and release of documents reviewed by the Cold Case Records Review Board. Currently, the Emmett Till Act encourages the DOJ to investigate these civil rights cold cases. “Though this is a good step towards finding justice, it is not enough,” Rush said. “Outside investigators are needed to help solve these cases. Many cases exist where the perpetrators are dead and thus are no longer open to prosecution. The Cold Case Record Collections Act of 2017 allows for documents concerning such cases to be released as well. This can provide the much needed closure for families of the victims.” ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) wasted no time in inviting President Donald Trump to Chicago as the president made his way to the lectern for his first speech before a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday night. The legislator said the nation’s chief executive agreed to visit the city which has been under a national spotlight after Trump threatened to “send in the feds” to curb violence. Rush’s invitation came moments before Trump gave his first speech before a Joint Session of Congress where the Republican detailed a series of administrative objectives that would harm America’s most vulnerable citizens and set the country on a dangerous path. The president also assailed Chicago’s shooting rate by erroneously stating the current level had already surpassed last year’s numbers. “Trump’s speech was nothing more than campaign promises on steroids — and what he said about Chicago is wrong and a bunch of rhetoric,” Rush said. “Four thousand people haven’t been shot in the first two months of this year; but even if one person in our city is the victim of this reckless gun violence we need solutions, not more propaganda. I invited him to Chicago so he can talk to leaders, citizens and people who are working to reduce violence — but also to understand the other side of this story, and that’s poverty, joblessness and a lack of access to mental health and social services. “Trump’s attacks on the Affordable Care Act will render 20 million Americans without access to health care. His attacks on immigrants will only escalate the already growing level of bigotry sweeping the nation. His war on deregulation is really a smokescreen to turn his back on public safety. We should not remove safeguards that oversee protections for the environment, food and drugs, technology and the like,” Rush said. The Democrat also noted the address was “more propaganda and less process,” adding, “He speaks in broad generalities and gives very few specifics,” Rush continued. “He’s good at telling us the what but never the how. He talked about violence but never talked about the easy access to guns. He talked about the killings but didn’t mention straw purchases. Rush said one solution is the passage of H.R. 810 the “Hadiya Pendleton and Nyasia Pryear-Yard Stop Illegal Trafficking in Firearms Act of 2017,” which he introduced in February. The bill seeks to increase public safety by punishing and deterring firearms trafficking. Specifically, it prohibits, with respect to two or more firearms, the transfer to or receipt by a prohibited person or a person who plans a subsequent transfer that results in unlawful use, possession, or disposition of such firearms; providing false statements in connection with the purchase, receipt, or acquisition of such firearms; and directing, promoting, or facilitating such prohibited conduct. Rush also spoke to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and asked him to not only reopen the Emmett Till murder case, in light of new information, but also, reverse his decision to possibly table a U.S. Justice Department report on reforms needed in the Chicago Police Department (CPD). In an effort to bring more accountability to police departments across the country Rush introduced H.R. 1213, the “Laquan McDonald Camera Act of 2017” which requires, as a condition on the receipt of federal funds, that law enforcement agencies to have in effect a policy regarding the use of body-worn and dashboard cameras. The legislation is named for a 17-year-old youth whose October 2014 killing by a Chicago police officer stunned the city launched a federal investigation of CPD’s training and policies. Dashboard cameras on the night of the incident were disabled or not working properly. The bill seeks to penalize any law enforcement agency not in compliance by stripping them of 10 percent of federal funding unless certification is provided to the Attorney General that policies are in place and are being enforced. ###
02.22.2017	CHICAGO — In an effort to bring more accountability to police departments across the country U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) has introduced H.R. 1213, the “Laquan McDonald Camera Act of 2017” which requires, as a condition on the receipt of federal funds, that law enforcement agencies o have in effect a policy regarding the use of body-worn and dashboard cameras. The legislation is named for a 17-year-old youth whose October 2014 killing by a Chicago police officer stunned the city and opened a Pandora’s Box of questions about the training and policies of the Chicago Police Department (CPD). Dashboard cameras on the night of the incident were disabled or not working properly. The bill seeks to penalize any law enforcement agency not in compliance by stripping them of 10 percent of federal funding unless certification is provided to the U.S. Attorney General that policies are in place and being enforced. “This legislation seeks to restore some of the public’s trust in law enforcement at time when trust is at an all-time low. There has been a wave of questionable police shootings that resulted in the deaths of unarmed citizens — or people who appeared to be of no threat at the time of the encounter,” said Rush. “Cases, such as Laquan McDonald, Mike Brown, Alton Sterling and Philando Castile are brutal illustrations on why we need a clear documentation of facts when citizen-encounters with police turn deadly. “What’s the point of having body-cams or dashboard cameras if a cop fails to turn them on or the volume is off,” Rush said. “Having clear, enforceable policies protects both citizens and law enforcement officers when these incidents escalate.” Last month, the U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division released a scathing investigative report on the Chicago Police Department. It found reasonable cause to believe that CPD engages in a pattern or practice of using force, including deadly force, in violation of the Fourth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. The Department found that CPD officers’ practices unnecessarily endanger themselves and result in unnecessary and avoidable uses of force. The pattern or practice results from systemic deficiencies in training and accountability, including the failure to train officers in de-escalation and the failure to conduct meaningful investigations of uses of force. To be in compliance with the “Laquan McDonald Camera Act,” a State shall require each law enforcement agency of that State and of a unit of a local government of that State to have in effect a policy requiring and prescribing the conditions for the use of body-worn cameras and dashboard cameras by law enforcement officers of that agency, and to establish procedures providing for the effective enforcement of that policy. ###
02.21.2017	WASHINGTON — Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.) and Energy Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to President Trump today urging him to reconsider his decision to remove the Secretary of Energy from the Principals Committee of the National Security Council (NSC). A January 28th Presidential Memorandum made a number of significant changes to the makeup of the NSC’s Principals Committee, including appointing President Trump’s chief political advisor, Steve Bannon, to the Principals Committee, while removing key national security leaders including the Secretary of Energy and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “Since this significant interagency advisory panel is often host to the final deliberation and review before critical policy issues affecting national security are presented to the President, we find it incomprehensible that our country's top energy security advisor has been removed from the panel,” Pallone and Rush wrote. “We also find it troubling that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the U.S. Representative to the United Nations and the Director of National Intelligence have been removed, yet at the same time, a political advisor with no real national security experience or responsibility has been given a seat at the table. “Energy security is one of our nation's top tier national security concerns. A successful cyberattack on our electricity grid could have a massive nationwide impact on consumers, businesses, and critical infrastructure, while putting American lives at risk. Losing power across a broad swath of the country for days on end would cripple our society’s ability to communicate, move freely and seek basic needs such as food, water and health care,” Pallone and Rush continued in their letter. Under U.S. law the Secretary of Energy is a standing member of the NSC. While the law does not mandate that the secretary serve on the Principals Committee, during the Obama Administration the Secretary of Energy served as a full member of the NSC Principals Committee, along with a number of other Cabinet officials. The Secretary of Energy is responsible for the safe keeping of our nation’s nuclear weapons arsenal in addition to the security of our nation’s energy grid and infrastructure. The Energy and Commerce Committee is responsible for oversight of the Department of Energy. A copy of the letter is available below. ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON — As deadly gun violence continues to claim lives in Chicago and wreak havoc on communities engulfed in poverty, drugs, high unemployment and a lack of access to mental health and social services, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) has reintroduced H.R.810 the “Hadiya Pendleton and Nyasia Pryear-Yard Stop Illegal Trafficking in Firearms Act of 2017.” The bill seeks to increase public safety by punishing and deterring firearms trafficking. Specifically, it prohibits, with respect to two or more firearms, the transfer to or receipt by a prohibited person or a person who plans a subsequent transfer that results in unlawful use, possession, or disposition of such firearms; providing false statements in connection with the purchase, receipt, or acquisition of such firearms; and directing, promoting, or facilitating such prohibited conduct. A person who commits or conspires to commit a gun trafficking offense is subject to a prison term of up to 20 years (or 25 years if such person also acted as an organizer). The U.S. Sentencing Commission must review and, if appropriate, amend the sentencing guidelines and policy statements that apply to persons convicted of trafficking in firearms. “Last week we had three children including a two-year-old toddler, shot and killed by random gunfire in Chicago,” Rush said. “This trauma and carnage has got to stop. I believe cracking down on gun traffickers and those who engage in straw purchases will greatly reduce these incidents that are occurring on the streets of many American cities. If the President wants to send the Feds to Chicago, he can start by advocating for strong legislation (H.R. 810) that will hold people accountable and go after the very people who are putting the guns in the hands of criminals.” Named for two teenagers who were shot and killed in random acts of gun fire in their hometowns, the law could go a long way to reducing the flow of illegal guns in cities across the country that have been dealing with a spike in shootings and gun deaths. In 2013 Pendleton was a 15-year-old Chicago honor student who had just returned from performing at President Barack Obama’s inauguration ceremonies when she was shot and killed while walking home from school. Pryear was a 17-year old New York honor student when she was struck and killed while dancing at a party with friends in 2009. Their deaths rocked the nation and led to heightened gun control advocacy. “In addition to taking on these straw purchases we need to also take a look at the other side of violence,” Rush said. “There are clear economic and social factors that contribute to the climate in cities like Chicago where people choose violence over conflict resolution. My constituents need access to social services, mental health and domestic violence programs, jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities, as well as access to capital. Until we address all factors of violence our neighborhoods will remain under siege from people who need serious in navigating the racial and economic divide.” ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON — As the nation braces itself against sustained attacks on immigrant families from the Trump White House, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) today announced plans to host an immigration policy forum entitled, “Navigating Today’s U.S Immigration Policy”. The forum will be held Thursday, Feb. 23rd at the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT), 10 W. 35th Street at 5:30 p.m. The announcement was made in support of “A Day Without Immigrants” protests that have taken place in Chicago and other parts of the country. Forum participants will include representatives from the American Immigration Lawyers Association, American Civil Liberties Union, Illinois Business Immigration Coalition and the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, among others. “Today people across the nation are engaged in a day of protest toward the hostile climate coming from Washington,” Rush said. “Over the last several weeks I have received numerous phone calls from my constituents expressing confusion, grave concern and disaffection with the recent actions of the Trump administration regarding his travel and refugee ban. I remain committed to ensuring the clarion call expressed by the Statute of Liberty, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free…,” remains the immigration policy of our nation.” ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement during an Energy Subcommittee Hearing on “Modernizing Energy and Electricity Delivery Systems: Challenges and Opportunities to Promote Infrastructure Improvement and Expansion”, where he serves as Ranking Member. The Congressman noted that the federal government must embark on a path of upgrading the nation’s energy infrastructure that it is done “in a way that is responsible, environmentally-conscious, and takes into account the rights and interests of impacted communities.” Reading from a letter from the National Urban League, Rep. Rush questioned the first panel on the level of employment, business and entrepreneurial opportunities for African Americans and other minorities. “My office received a letter from the National Urban League, which in part noted the importance of job training and workforce development programs as an essential component of any comprehensive infrastructure proposal,” he said. “Specifically, the letter discussed the necessity for including technical training, pre-apprenticeships, internships and job placement opportunities for African Americans and other minority communities as a way to ensure that all Americans are able to fully benefit in the tremendous opportunities before us.” Legislators heard testimony from Ganesh Bell, chief digital officer of GE Power; Dr. Michael Howard, president and CEO of Electric Power Research Institute; Lonnie Stephenson, international president of International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Steven G. Hauser, CEO of GridWise Alliance; Chad Harrison, Councilman-at-large of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; Rex Ferry, owner of Valley Electrical Consolidated; Kim Kann, a private landowner from Lancaster County, PA; Terry O’Sullivan, general president of Laborers International Union of North America; and Joey Mahmoud, project director of Dakota Access Pipeline. “I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing today on the challenges and opportunities associated with improving our nation’s energy infrastructure,” said Rush. “Mr. Chairman, this is a timely hearing and it is my hope that we can follow up on the bipartisan agreement that was initiated last session as part of the comprehensive energy bill that ultimately fell through. “As part of those discussions, Mr. Chairman, there are two provisions in particular that I hope we can bring to fruition this time around, specifically, the pipeline safety replacement program that would provide assistance to low income communities that I have been promoting. “Additionally, I hope that we can come together and agree to invest in modernizing the nation’s aging electrical grid infrastructure, as Ranking Member Pallone has been advocating for. “Mr. Chairman, it is also important that as we embark on this path of upgrading our nation’s energy infrastructure that we do so in a way that is responsible, environmentally-conscious, and takes into account the rights and interests of impacted communities. “Even as we speak, Mr. Chairman, we are seeing the impact of shoddily built infrastructure in the tragedy playing out in California, where almost 200 thousand residents have been evacuated due to leaks in an emergency spillway at the Oroville Dam. “Sadly, Mr. Chairman, this entire episode could have been avoided if builders and regulators had taken heed to the warnings of environmental groups who had forewarned of the risk of catastrophic flooding more than a decade ago, but who were unfortunately ignored. “Indeed Mr. Chairman, it is important to remember that while some may consider commonsense safety and environmental regulations to be overly burdensome or tedious, these protections may one day be the difference in saving one’s property, livelihood, or even life. “Another important aspect of today’s hearing will hopefully provide instruction in attempting to strike the right balance between modernizing and upgrading the nation’s energy infrastructure, like we so desperately need, while also taking into account the rights of landowners, Native Americans, and other communities that might be adversely impacted by these types of projects. “Mr. Chairman, nowhere is this struggle more pronounced than in the battle over the Dakota Access Pipeline, as we will hear from our second panel of witnesses. “As policymakers, we all understand the need for additional infrastructure to ensure that critical fuels and resources are carried to the places where they are needed in order to meet our nation’s energy demands. “However, as Representatives of the people we must also ensure that the rights and interests of Native Americans, property-owners, and less affluent communities are also protected. “Mr. Chairman, Congress should help provide thoughtful and responsible guidance for instituting a fair and balanced process for moving forward with large-scale energy projects that respect the rights of all communities and does not place expedience or maximum profit above the rights of landowners or the communities these projects traverse. “So Mr. Chairman, I welcome all of today’s witnesses and I look forward to a rigorous debate on these important and sometimes difficult issues…” ###
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON — In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) today asked the U.S. Justice Department to reopen the Emmett Till murder case in light of new information which suggests a witness may have provided false testimony to federal authorities. The trial and subsequent acquittal of the perpetrators by an all-white jury in 1955, led to national outrage and led to Rosa Parks’ defiant stance against racial injustice in December of the same year sparking the Civil Rights Movement. The youth was accused of “whistling at a white woman.” On August 28, 1955, Till was kidnapped, tortured, shot, mutilated and weighted down with a cotton gin fan before being tossed in the Tallahatchie River in Money, Mississippi. The elementary school-aged youth had been on summer break visiting relatives when he was murdered. Now, an author claims the still-living Carolyn Bryant Donham, the woman at the center of the crime, admitted in 2007 that she made up the story about the boy’s actions, raising questions about whether the outcome would have been the same had she not fabricated parts or all of her sworn testimony. In his correspondence to the Attorney General, the Congressman wrote: “As you may know, I have long expressed an interest in the circumstances surrounding the murder of Emmett Till. My interest is not only personal but also because Emmett’s mother, Mamie Till, was a longtime resident of my district which also serves as Emmett’s final resting place. “…I understand that in 2007, the Department of Justice determined that this case did not warrant federal prosecution due to the statute of limitations on any potential federal crimes. Recent developments, however, lead me to believe that a reevaluation of that decision is warranted. History tells us that in 1955, despite compelling evidence to the contrary, Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam were acquitted by an all-white jury of Emmett’s murder. This acquittal was largely based on testimony given by Bryant’s wife, Carolyn, who had accused Emmett of whistling at, grabbing, and threatening her. What history does not tell us — and what has only recently come to light — is evidence that, in 2007, Carolyn Bryant Donham ‘confessed that she had fabricated the most sensational part of her testimony.’ In fact, when speaking of her earlier allegations that Emmett ‘had made verbal and physical advances on her,’ she is specifically quoted as saying ‘That part’s not true.’ “This revelation, I believe, merits a reevaluation of the Justice Department’s 2007 decision. At minimum, it is possible that false statements were made during the FBI’s investigation leading up to this report. Additionally, at a basic human level and in the interest of justice and historical integrity, society cannot allow such an egregious lie to go unpunished; especially when this lie led to the gruesome and horrific murder of a child. As Carolyn Bryant Donham herself said, ‘Nothing that boy did could ever justify what happened to him.’ “For these reasons, I strongly encourage you to reevaluate the potential for federal prosecution of any applicable crimes in this case. … As Mamie is reported to have said in 2015, ‘I hope he didn’t die in vain.’ I wholeheartedly share this sentiment and I thank you for your attention to this matter.” A copy of the letter is below. ###
02.14.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after learning of the passing of 11-year-old Takiya Holmes who was struck in the head by a bullet while sitting in her family’s minivan in the city’s Parkway Gardens community. She was one of two preteen girls who were struck by random gunfire this past weekend within moments of each other: “I offer condolences, prayer and support to the family of this beautiful child whose life was stolen from her by the act of a coward. I am as outraged as I am saddened that we are living at a time when lives are devalued and where citizens resort to guns rather than meaningful conflict resolution. “What has happened to Taykia, and Kanari Gentry-Bowers, should never happen in any civilized society. And yet, we have been here before, time and time again. People who are living and working in the most distressed parts of Chicago are under siege. They are in need of immediate local, state and federal resources, including access to social services, mental health, housing, violence prevention and health care. But citizens also need jobs, access to capital, education and trades programs as well as equal opportunity and equal protection under the law. Without these additional resources no policing strategy will prevent these types of random or premeditated acts from happening. “I am calling on the coward who killed Takiya to find the moral courage and surrender to authorities. I am calling on the individual who has wounded Kanari to understand the trauma and devastation you have caused and turn yourself in. “Our city cannot not withstand any more of these deaths.” ###
02.13.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement calling for the removal of National Security Advisory Michael Flynn after he confessed to discussing U.S. sanctions against Russia with Russian officials: “Gen. Michael Flynn cannot be trusted to put America before Russia and therefore our nation cannot trust him as a national security advisor. Now that his secret ties to Putin has been exposed, the White House must act now and fire him immediately. National security is one area in which there can be no conflicts of interests. There is only one interest, and that is the safety of our nation and the American people. I join congressional leaders in calling a full investigation into the Trump administration’s ties to Russia, be they personal, financial or political.” ###
02.08.2017	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) reiterated his call for an immediate end to the Illinois budget stalemate that crippled the state’s social service and non-profit agencies and has placed tens of thousands of Illinois residents at risk. Standing with workers from Ashely Quality Care at 610 W. Root Street and flanked by a coalition of clergy and community residents, including Church of God in Christ Bishop O.C. Booker, the representative likened the Springfield crisis to the epic film “Godzilla vs. King Kong.” The state is $11 billion in arrears for all bills. The state appropriation ran out December 31, 2016 so lawmakers have asked non-profits to keep providing service with the promise that eventually Illinois’ spending authority will be restored so agencies can get paid. Even with restoration, agencies like Ashley Quality Care, which has been without state payment since June 2015, will still have a fiscal gap needed to be addressed by the state. “On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I am joining in this moral stand against the fiscal suffocation of our state’s social service agencies,” Rush said. “No matter how you want to look at it, the Governor and the Speaker of the House have declared war on social agencies. I am here to support these vital organizations in their call for an end to the budget brutality that hurt our communities. I join in the demand that Governor Bruce Rauner and the Illinois General Assembly lay down their egos and put the people of Illinois first. “This state budget brutality is wreaking havoc on our communities and particularly poor people,” he said. “It has put the most vulnerable people at risk, of which some 1.9 million live in poverty. Black children in Illinois, for example, are nearly four times more likely to live below the poverty line than white children. This is a war against poor people, poor families and poor children, nothing more and nothing less.” Before the budget impasse began Ashley’s Quality Care serviced over 1,000 clients and more than 950 employees. Due to the impasse the company is down to less than half of those numbers. Under a contract with the Illinois Department of Aging the company has not received any payments from the state since September of 2016. This is approximately $1 million sitting and pending until further notice. Without receiving these payments Ashley’s cannot meet payroll for home care aides and staff. As a result our home care aides and clients are suffering by coming to work every day for a company that is not able to pay them their due wages. “Ashley’s Quality Care Homecare Agency and many others in the Chicago and across the state are suffering from the current budget impasse,” said Frankie J. Redditt, president and CEO of Ashley. “We’re losing our workforce, we are in danger of losing our company and more importantly this is hurting the very seniors who rely on our care everyday who deserve to be treated better than they have been. How many seniors will have to lose their home care services and be sent back to hospitals, how many more workers will lose their jobs and be sent to the unemployment line? Enough is enough. We need relief now.” Added Bishop O.C. Booker, president of the first jurisdiction of the Church of God In Christ, representing more than 2,000 churches in Chicago and suburban Illinois, “How many disabled seniors will have to go without services? How many employees will become unemployed? How many people will experience foreclosures or served eviction notices? …And, how many students will lose their health care benefits because their parents have no income? No budget, no money, no pay. We need help. Now is the time to respond.” Congressman Rush, in partnership with 7th Congressional District Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.) vowed to fight with these agencies to bring the budget stalemate to an end. “We know that a state budget is as much of a moral document as it is a fiscal blueprint and yet our citizens, Ashley’s clients, are not numbers on a spreadsheet,” Rush said. “This fiscal crisis is impacting real lives. Workers are losing their jobs due to no fault of their own leading to both a workforce and caseload crisis in Illinois. School districts are being forced to make cuts that harm students in the classroom; and, even further, the state is crippling child welfare agencies. “While these two despots are engaged in war, I am reminded of a movie I used to see called Godzilla vs. King Kong. The one thing I remember about it was there were two giant monsters fighting for power and destroying the city of Tokyo as a result of it. They were wiping out homes and businesses and wreaking havoc on the people of the city. Madigan and Rauner are like King Kong and Godzilla and they are destroying Illinois,” the representative continued. “We’ve seen day care centers close, mental health facilities close, rehab services close, anti-violence programs, close and community centers close. This may be the greatest destruction of social service agencies and providers in the state’s history. We don’t just have people falling through the cracks, we have an entire demographic of people falling into craters of instability—all because our elected officials at the state level are unable or unwilling to secure a state budget. “Again, I am calling on Gov. Rauner and the General Assembly to end this civil war put the people of Illinois first. By passing a budget they may be able to halt the damage already done to children, families and communities. ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) expressed caution and concern after Betsy DeVos squeaked through her Senate confirmation process to become the next Secretary of Education following a tie-breaking vote by Vice President Mike Pence. DeVos’ confirmation marked the first time in U.S. history where the Vice President was called in to break a 50-50 tie in the Senate for a presidential cabinet nominee. “Ms. DeVos has alarmed many of us who value the public school system and believe that every child has a right to high quality education regardless of their zip code, their native language, or the wealth of their parents. As someone who believes that we have a particular duty to invest in those students who are most at-risk of being left behind by society, I vow to hold Ms. DeVos accountable if she attempts to enact policy that would negatively impact low-income students, children of color, students with disabilities or children who speak English as a Second Language. “I am extremely wary of an Education Secretary, charged with overseeing our nation’s public education system, who has spent much of her career pushing for private school vouchers using public funds and charter schools without proper accountability and transparency. As someone who knows firsthand the role that a quality education can play in changing the course of one’s life, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the policies coming out of the Department of Education benefit all of our children. And when those policies fail to live up to that promise, I will speak out forcefully and frequently to hold Ms. DeVos’ feet to the fire.” ###
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) General Counsel, Mr. Brendan Carr asking him to explain the FCC’s decision not to defend, in whole, its prison phone rate letter in federal court. As Rush, who was joined by U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) and G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) and Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-District of Columbia), stated in the letter, “Chances for rehabilitation and successful reintegration into society are much greater when millions of Americans who are currently incarcerated are allowed to maintain communication with their loved ones and support systems. Overpriced phone rates deter these communications and contribute to increased recidivism.” Rush, who first addressed this issue by introducing legislation in 2005, has been a longtime proponent of FCC involvement in prison phone rates. A complete copy of the letter can be found below. ###
01.31.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the recent announcement that Seaway Bank and Trust Company, Chicago, was closed by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, Division of Banking: “With fewer than 30 black banks remaining in the U.S., the crisis for African-American banks is obvious and growing. Difficult economic conditions in the African-American community and an inability to expand into more creative and innovative products have limited the amount of economic growth for these banks. Add to this, a tough regulatory environment where these banks are constantly having their business models and decisions questioned any time they try something new or innovative. These same complaints exist for community banks as well but are exasperated by the relatively more difficult economic conditions in the African-American community. “A concerted effort must be undertaken to improve the environment for all banks, but specific steps must be taken to help African-American Banks. We must look at successful banks to find what works. We must also talk with banking experts on new theories and strategies for banks and banking growth.” ###
01.30.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) joined over 160 of his House Democratic colleagues in introducing legislation to rescind and defund President Trump’s travel and refugee ban. The SOLVE, or Statue of Liberty Values Act, was introduced by U.S. Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) following widespread confusion and fear after the implementation of an unprecedented Presidential Executive Order banning refugees and individuals from seven majority Muslim countries. Over the weekend, airports across the country, including Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, were filled with chaos as travelers, including Lawful Permanent Residents, children and elderly persons, were denied entry to the United States. Simply put, this Executive Order is bad policy and only serves to make our country less safe, and a growing chorus of foreign policy experts has condemned Trump’s Muslim and refugee ban as disastrous to both U.S. foreign policy and national security. “The United States is a nation of immigrants and we have seen time and time again that immigration has been, and continues to be, an important factor in the development of the United States,” said Rush. “From the very beginning of our history immigrants have played an important role in helping to weave our modern social fabric. “President Trump’s Executive Order has taken us from a Nation that tells the world ‘Give me your tired, your poor, / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,’ to a Nation that discriminates based on religion and national origin; principles that violate both the spirit and text of the U.S. Constitution and federal law. “President Trump’s executive order demonstrates the infantile evil acts of a street bully. In my experience, the only way to beat a bully is to stand up and fight back; which, morally, I must do.” Full bill text of the SOLVE Act can be found here. ###
01.13.2017	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the Department of Justice Pattern-or-Practice Investigation of Chicago Police Department: “At the conclusion of a 13 month long U.S. Department of Justice investigation (the largest and longest of a police department in Justice Department history), findings were issued that reveal scathing, disturbing and completely unacceptable patterns of unconstitutional policing as executed by the Chicago Police Department against the very citizens they are sworn to protect. Shooting at vehicles without justification, using force to retaliate against and punish individuals and failing to deescalate situations, all without predictable, timely and transparent discipline are just a few examples of the outrageous practices outlined in the report. “In spite of these disturbing findings, the citizens of Chicago are only left with platitudes, promises and politics from the Mayor, the Chicago Police Department and the Justice Department. Their announcement of an intent to sign an agreement to work together on a consent decree is thoroughly inadequate and insulting because at the conclusion, we are left with no consent decree in place. “I found the Mayor’s remarks and those of the Superintendent to be weak regarding the consent decree. This way of responding to unearthed and unveiled corrupt patterns and practices is the Chicago way but that simply does not work and does not match up with the extraordinary circumstances made plain by the report. “Just like the City of Baltimore, we must have a consent decree now. One that puts the leadership and oversight of CPD squarely in the hands of the courts. That is why over the next few days, I will convene a series of meetings with some of the city’s top constitutional lawyers to bring a case to court that will result in the Justice Department being ordered to institute a consent decree now. “I respect and appreciate the dedication of the majority of Chicago Police Officers whose hard work provides us with safety and protection. Most officers and their families want the same things most of Chicago wants. That is to uphold the law, be safe and secure, live a prosperous life and be productive citizens. “However, the actions of rogue officers and the inadequate department accountability systems under which they operate, require an immediate and comprehensive response. We must demand the same response from the Justice Department as the City of Baltimore received. A consent decree must be implemented. “In the waning days of the Obama presidency, I implore the President to take swift action, and like famed Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, throw a last second Hail Mary pass that will undoubtedly result in securing for the citizens of Chicago a consent decree before President-elect Trump is sworn in.” ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON — Energy Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement today in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement that it has issued a notice of violation to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. and FCA U.S. for failing to disclose engine management software in approximately 104,000 light-duty diesel vehicles: “It is very disheartening to learn that yet another automaker has been caught trying to cheat the system and violate the Clean Air Act by installing and failing to disclose engine management software in light-duty model year 2014, 2015 and 2016 trucks sold in the United States,” said Rush. “Following on the heels of the recent Volkswagen scandal, this new development demonstrates the need for additional federal oversight to hold automakers accountable for their deceitful practices. “It is for this very reason that I will soon be reintroducing the Compensating Losses to the Environment from Automobiles with Noxious Undisclosed Pollution, or CLEANUP Act. This bill would give federal agencies the authority to penalize perpetrators who violate the Clean Air Act by cheating emissions tests and use that money to invest in initiatives that help improve air quality for all Americans.” The CLEANUP Act would deny automakers the benefit of fraudulently obtained CAFE credits while also authorizing the Department of Transportation (DOT) to collect additional penalties from automakers that violate the law. Additionally, the bill would authorize DOT to use these collected funds to make investments in other forms of clean transportation such as retrofitting school buses, funding electric vehicle fueling stations and providing grants for projects to improve air quality in low-income communities. Please click here to read the notice of violation. ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) was unanimously reelected by his colleagues to continue his service as the Ranking Democratic Member on the Subcommittee on Energy of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Upon his reelection, Rush said, “I am pleased by the faith that my colleagues have shown in me and I look forward to leading them in our fight to protect the EPA and develop clean, sustainable energy resources.” First elected to this position for the 112th Congress (beginning in 2011), Rush has led the most active Subcommittee of Energy and Commerce, if not the House of Representatives at-large. ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) commended the Department of Energy for releasing its second Quadrennial Energy Review (QER) entitled “Transforming the Nation’s Electricity System”. This report focuses on increasing economic value and ensuring consumer equity, enabling a clean electricity future and ensuring electricity system reliability, security and resilience. “This comprehensive report analyzes the challenges and opportunities in modernizing the nation’s electricity sector and updating it for the 21st century. I will soon be introducing legislation to codify the QER and require DOE to systematically provide four-year reviews of the nation’s electric grid. It is imperative that policymakers are provided guidance for protecting the nation’s electricity sector from cyberattack, as well as recommendations and strategies for updating our infrastructure and incorporating new and innovative technologies into the grid. It is my hope that my bill, like the legislation that was introduced last session by Senator Coons of Delaware and Senator Alexander of Tennessee, will attract bipartisan support.” The first QER was released in 2013 and provided recommendations for federal energy policy objectives, legislative proposals to Congress, Executive actions and potential R&D, financing and incentive programs. The newly released QER 1.2 analyzes trends and issues confronting the Nation’s electricity sector through the year 2040 and examines the electricity supply chain from generation, through transmission and distribution, to end use. The latest report builds on analysis and recommendations in the first installment of the QER, which included electricity as part of an examination of energy transmission, distribution, and storage infrastructures. The full report and related analyses is available online. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced two legislative initiatives that address social and economic injustices in policing and public policy. Rush introduced the Laquan McDonald Camera Act which will require state and local law enforcement agencies to have in effect, and enforce, a policy regarding the use of body-worn cameras and dashboard cameras in order to receive federal funds. Rush also introduced the Family Reconstruction Act that seeks to establish a commission to study family reconstruction proposals for African-Americans unjustly impacted by the ‘‘War on Drugs’’. The Laquan McDonald Camera Act comes as result of the countless incidents of police violence that are lacking camera footage, even when body cameras and/or dashboard cameras were available on-scene. Rush named the bill to honor 17-year-old Laquan McDonald. When McDonald, who was shot 16 times by Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke in 2014, was shot, dashboard cameras were on scene and functioning but the audio functionality had allegedly been disabled. In the past five years, dozens of cases of police shootings from across the country depicted murders of individuals for routine traffic stops or minor infractions. The Family Reconstruction Act will create a commission to acknowledge the fundamental injustice and the subsequent de jure and de facto racial and economic discrimination against African-Americans impacted by the ‘‘War on Drugs’’. Rush believes the War on Drugs has played a disparate and discriminatory role in the mass incarceration that has focused too harshly on African-American families. The responsibilities of the commission are to determine the role that the government and private corporations played in the prison industrial complex, make recommendations to Congress on appropriate remedies, and for other purposes. The “War on Drugs” launched by former President Richard J. Nixon began nearly 40 years ago and disproportionately impacted African-American families. Despite roughly equal rates of drug use and sales, African-American men are arrested at 13 times the rate of white men on drug charges in the U.S. with rates of up to 57 times in some states. African-Americans and Latinos together make up 29 percent of the total U.S. population, but make up more than 75 percent of drug law violators in state and federal prisons. Rush’s bills highlight the social and economic disparities in the distribution of law and law enforcement where African-American communities are over-policed, underserved, and under-protected while being overly incarcerated. Rush’s legislation seeks to address failed policy enforced by governmental bodies that marginalize minority communities. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), joined by U.S. Senator Cory Booker (D-N.J.), introduced a Concurrent Resolution to address exorbitant prison phone rates between the imprisoned and their loved ones. Since the 109th Congress, Rep. Rush, a senior member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, has introduced federal legislation and advocated nationally for dramatically reducing exorbitant rates that are charged for phone calls between inmates and their families. In 2005, Rep. Rush first introduced the Family Telephone Connection Protection Act to require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to regulate exorbitant, interstate calling rates for prison phone calls between parents, spouses and families with children. Rep. Rush has reintroduced this legislation in every subsequent Congress to put an end to the kickbacks — also known as site commissions — received by prisons based on incoming and outgoing calls between inmates and their loved ones. A diverse coalition of both liberal and conservative groups has also called for regulatory action to resolve this matter. The exorbitant and costly fees that American families incur to phone incarcerated loved ones are financially draining. According to Prison Legal News, more than two million Americans are housed within prison walls. “For last decade, I have sought to end the ‘family divide,’ a term analogous to the ‘digital divide’ that exists with regard to unequal access to communication services between incarcerated members of our society and their loved ones,” said Rep. Rush. “I firmly believe that communication, along with the ability to express love toward family, is a fundamental need, and one’s humanity does not perish when they enter the prison system.” Senator Booker, a long time champion for prison reforms understands the dire need for solutions to decreasing prison populations. The U.S. makes up about five percent of the world’s population, but comprises nearly 25 percent of the world’s prison population. In an effort to steer U.S. prison systems toward rehabilitation, Senator Booker introduced the Record Expungement Designed to Enhance Employment (REDEEM) Act to reduce recidivism among both children and adults in U.S. prison systems. Senator Booker said, “Implementing fair and reasonable prison phone rates is the right thing to do and plain common sense. This resolution supports recent efforts by the FCC to protect those serving their time and their families from exorbitant and unfounded calling fees imposed on some of America’s most financially fragile households. These excessive fees are not only baseless attempts to profit off of vulnerable families, they undermine the financial security of those trying to stay in touch with a partner, parent, or child behind bars. In addition, excessive fees on inmate calls can pose a substantial barrier to successful reentry once individuals have paid their debt to society. That debt should not include paying excessive fees per minute to speak with your child.” Although this is an issue that affects families from all backgrounds (over 2.7 million children in the United States have at least one parent in prison), more than 60 percent of incarcerated prisoners are African- or Latino-American. In addition, many prison offenders come from economically vulnerable communities where unreasonable prison phone rates severely harm and exploit prison populations. Research proves that there is a significant decline in recidivism rates for inmates who communicate with family members while incarcerated compared to those who do not. Expensive phone call rates deter such communication and result in costly re-incarceration. Scores of states receive hundreds of millions of dollars in commissions from companies to land exclusive contracts to provide prison phone services without facing competition from other lower-cost providers; a possible reason for why prison phone call rates have skyrocketed. Bloomberg reports the lucrative market for prison phone services, which totals approximately $1.2 billion dollars in annual revenues, is currently dominated by two companies, Global Tel Link and Securus Technologies. Ensuring that prison phone rates are adjusted to reasonable levels will not only increase affordability of service for families, but will also help keep families intact as much as possible while reducing recidivism. ###
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power voted in favor of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act. The bill seeks to prevent and cure disease and improve health for all Americans. The 21st Century Cures Act also requires that public, private and research institutions around the country takes bold action to accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new treatments and cures for patients and to maintain our nation’s standing as the biomedical innovation capital of the world. H.R. 34, also includes a provision sponsored by Rush that will improve minority inclusion in clinical trials. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), of the 10,000 known diseases, 7,000 of which are considered rare, there are treatments for only 500. Yet, there are many diseases affecting minority communities that often fall by the wayside because minorities are underrepresented in clinical trials. Rush introduced five provisions for adoption into the Energy & Commerce Committee’s 21st Century Cures bill that sought minority inclusion in clinical trials. Two of Rush’s amendments were adopted into the full bill which will boost the biomedical workforce in in unrepresented communities to address ending health disparities among minority populations and improve outcomes in maternity health. The first provision will require the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities to include within its strategic plan for biomedical research ways to increase representation of underrepresented communities in clinical trials. The second provision will ensure that it remains a priority at NIH that the biomedical workforce of the future includes groups from traditionally underrepresented communities. “Research professionals tend to work toward solutions to diseases that they have a personal connection with,” said Rush. “That enforces the need for minority participation in order to foster research that gets to the root causes of diseases not only affecting other communities, but cures for underrepresented minority groups. This is why I offered an amendment that will address these disparities by requiring that the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) within the National Institute of Health include within its Strategic Plan ways to increase representation of underrepresented communities in clinical trials.” ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.) introduced a bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act. This bill would establish a $50 million grant program within EPA that would allow local education agencies and districts to replace lead service lines and lead solder used in school plumbing. This bill is a companion to an earlier bill Rush introduced that would provide grants to schools to replace older water tanks manufactured prior to 1988. “As the Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee on the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Bustos and myself represent both Chicago and downstate Illinois within the two committees of jurisdiction over this issue,” said Rush. Rep. Bustos currently sits on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “This is a problem that predates all of our tenures, but we understand how widespread this issue is and what resources are going to be needed to address it from the local, state and federal levels to turn this issue around.” Last month, Rush and Bustos hosted a fact-finding, informational water infrastructure listening session at Avalon Park field house in Chicago. The October session included members from the Chicago Mayor’s Office, Chicago Department of Public Health, Chicago Department of Water Management, Environment and Economy Subcommittee, Illinois EPA and the Illinois Public Water Supply. The discussion covered the issue of lead in schools, parks and other public entities. As a result of the discussion, Rush and Bustos introduced this legislation in order to address the needs of their constituencies. Avalon Park is significant due to the fact that Chicago Park District officials found some of the highest lead levels therein samples collected during the summer. “I worked hard to secure several million dollars to replace lead pipes in one of our communities, however the problem of lead contamination in drinking water is widespread and must be addressed comprehensively,” said Bustos. “There is no safe level of lead, particularly for young children, so we cannot rest until every school has safe drinking water. I’m proud to partner with Congressman Rush as we work to solve this challenge to protect children in all of our communities.” Lead in drinking water is a problem made prominent in the news with the situation in Flint, Michigan but one that is much more widespread, nationally. Not only is the nation seeing lead in drinking water fountains in schools in Chicago, but the problem is now creeping up in other areas such as in our parks. Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) stated, “This bill will provide essential funds to schools struggling to replace lead infrastructure to ensure safe drinking water for schoolchildren nationwide. I applaud Congressman Rush and Congresswoman Bustos for their continued dedication to ensuring access to safe drinking water.” ###
11.10.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement to honor the men and women who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces: “The nearly two million men and women who have served, and are currently serving, in the U.S. Armed Forces protect the civil liberties of all Americans. We know that their sacrifice is great for family and country. On this day we give honor to each and every one of them for their commitment to our nation’s creeds. “Our country needs our veterans. This weekend, and throughout the year, let us consider the spirit of Veterans Day and reflect upon the vital role of our veterans as they help make our nation what it is today. Though there are not enough words to truly describe how grateful we are for all our veterans have done, we should remain mindful to say ‘thank you’. ###
09.08.2016	WASHIINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke during the opening session of the conference committee to resolve differences between the Senate and the House energy bills. This is the first time the 46 members of the committee met. Rush offered opening remarks that called for inclusion of underrepresented groups for energy- and manufacturing-related jobs in the burgeoning fields. Rush remarked, “If we want to make sure that all communities are able to succeed then we must be willing to invest in these communities.” The Senate and House Conferees focused on drafting a comprehensive energy bill that address the many changes that have taken place in the energy landscape since 2006. Rush remains hopeful that Congress will enact bipartisan legislation to move the nation’s energy policy forward. To listen to the entirety of Rush’s remarks view the link below: ###
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will introduce the Bronzeville–Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Act when Congress returns from recess. U.S. Senators Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) will be introducing companion legislation in the Senate. This legislation would create the Bronzeville–Black Metropolis National Heritage Area to provide national recognition and resources to the story of African-American perseverance from the Civil War to the modern day. “Providing national recognition to the rich historical and cultural influence of this area will generate economic development and encourage tourists from around the world to visit and be proud of the contributions the African-American community has made to Chicagoland, our state and our nation,” said Kirk. The Heritage Area will help bring to life the well-documented impact of the African-American community to Chicago’s culture and economy since the Great Migration, when thousands of African-American migrants moved north to escape oppression in the South. The proposed National Heritage Area recognizes the community that fostered the efforts of Dr. Daniel Hale Williams, Jesse Binga, Ida B. Wells, Jack Johnson, Nat King Cole, Mahalia Jackson, John Johnson and Muddy Waters. The Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Commission, which includes First Lady Michelle Obama on its Steering Committee, has been collaborating with community leaders to fight for this recognition for years. The legislation authorizes up to $1 million in federal matching funds per year, designates the Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Commission as the Local Coordinating Entity and establishes requirements for a management plan to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior. “Chicago’s Bronzeville neighborhood has remarkable national historical significance, from its important role in America’s civil rights movement to its position as a national hub for the arts,” said Senator Durbin. “Our bill to elevate this unique neighborhood to national park status will help preserve the rich history of Bronzeville, increase tourism and facilitate economic development in the community.” “I live in the heart of the Bronzeville community and have for over 20 years. I see its beauty, majesty and its need for landmark recognition as it is the birthplace for much of the African-American community’s ingenuity, poetry, artistry and contributions to the City of Chicago,” said Representative Rush. “I thank Senator Kirk for leading this Congressional effort to solidify the legacy of the African-American community in our state at a pivotal moment in history. By establishing the National Heritage Area, tourists from our state and across the world will be able to explore and learn more about our community’s rich cultural and historical significance,” said Paula Robinson, President of the Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Commission. The City of Chicago’s Black Metropolis offers historical recognition to African-American achievement in all segments of society, from business, to the arts and politics. The historical significance of the region is also tied to the Great Migration of 1910–1970, when approximately 500,000 African-Americans migrated north to Chicago for new opportunities. The introduction of the legislation coincides with the efforts of the Great Migration Centennial Commission which the Illinois legislature created in 2010 to promote a deeper knowledge, understanding and engagement in the life and time of the African-American Migration Experience. The Illinois legislation requires the Centennial Commission to work in coordination with the Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Project Steering Committee to broaden outreach and voluntary assistance to the effort. The Bronzeville–Black Metropolis National Heritage Area is home to over 200 historical assets including: Camp Douglas: Union Army Recruitment and Training Camp Eighth Regiment Armory: First armory in the U.S. built for an African-American regiment Abbot House: A National Historic Landmark, home of the founder of the Chicago Defender newspaper Liberty Life/Supreme Life Insurance Company: Headquarters of most successful early African-American owned and operated insurance company in the Northern US, founded in 1919 Bronzeville Walk of Fame: Monument to the Great Migration Bud Billiken Parade: Celebrating Chicago’s youth since 1929 The Heritage Area is supported by the Chicago Urban League, the Chicago Community Trust, the Chicago Field Office of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, Landmarks Illinois, the Millennium Reserve Steering Committee, and the Bronzeville Community Development Partnership. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Frank Pallone (D-N.J.) introduced new legislation that would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to provide assistance to schools to replace older drinking water fountains that may contain lead. Locally, a reported 26 Chicago Public Schools were found to have dangerous levels of lead in them. Because it was legal to solder pipes with lead before 1986, many of the water fixtures built before then would need to be replaced in order for the city to be sure that its water is lead-free. Since a project of this scale has never been tried before, it’s difficult to know just how much funding it would take to complete an initiative of this size. Rush’s bill would establish a grant program to provide assistance to local educational agencies for the replacement of drinking water fountains manufactured prior to 1988. “When lead builds up in the body even in small amounts it can cause serious health problems,” said Rush. “What we are doing to our children in exposing them to lead poisoning is one-hundred percent avoidable. My proposed bill will provide schools with the funding to directly address this issue and protect our children and their educational futures.” The proposed bill would allocate $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 to help replace older fountains and also to supplement the costs of monitoring and reporting lead levels in the drinking water of schools of a local educational agency receiving such funds, as determined appropriate by the Administrator. “Lead in school drinking water is an immediate and serious threat for children in cities across New Jersey and this nation,” said Pallone. “This important bill could quickly eliminate a main source of lead in schools, protecting countless schoolchildren.” Lead interferes with a variety of body processes and is toxic to many organs and tissues including the heart, bones, intestines, kidneys, and reproductive and nervous systems. The brain is the organ most sensitive to lead exposure. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the shooting that killed five police officers and wounded several others in Dallas: “We cannot resort to violence or cast blame and hatred against one another. “We all share in the grief of the violence taking place across this country from Alton Sterling, Philando Castile and for the five officers killed. “As Mahatma Gandhi stated, ‘An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind.’ We must call for healing in our nation.” ###
06.29.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced a bold new initiative today — the Greater Chatham Initiative (GCI) — geared toward the economic advancement and security of his constituents and Chicago’s underrepresented African-American communities. The Greater Chatham Initiative is a comprehensive neighborhood business plan promoting 21st century economic growth in the predominantly African-American communities of Chatham, Auburn Gresham, Greater Grand Crossing and Avalon Park. This initiative will strive to strengthen Greater Chatham and ensure that it contributes to the prosperity of the Chicago region as a whole. “Two years ago, I asked key city stakeholders from all sectors of our community that included clergy, elected officials, business men and women, community activists and residents to voice their concerns and create solutions to halt Chicago’s violence,” Rep. Rush said. “I believe that if we create opportunity, give our youth something productive to do, whether it be after-school programs, summer activities or most importantly jobs, then we can bring an end to Chicago’s violence.” Added Rush: “It is clearly about investment. But for so long, there has been divestment on the South Side. Now is the time to restore our city blocks, build up businesses and invest in our community and especially in our youth.” Historically and economically, the Greater Chatham communities have always been the home of Chicago’s African-American middle-class. Cultural icons like Mahalia Jackson and Gwendolyn Brooks have called Greater Chatham home, as have African-American businesses like Johnson Products and Seaway National Bank. But today, these communities stand on the edge of deterioration because of larger trends: declining middle-skill jobs, frozen housing markets, and changing demographics. With GCI, partners and programs will take place to invest strategically in the human capital, business development, housing, public safety, support services, and civic capacity of the area. Local and regional stakeholders, from the community and public and private sectors, are coming together to support this initiative with the goal of strengthening these communities and promoting them as places of opportunity and choice for working- and middle-class African-American families. Over 30 programs — including the Greater Chatham Workforce Center, a targeted housing and commercial redevelopment fund, a demand-side sector-driven workforce program for underemployed adults, expanded youth summer jobs programs, and youth transportation from school to afterschool programs — are currently being developed. These partnerships and programs are established for easy adaptation and replication for surrounding communities facing similar challenges. With participation and commitment from the stakeholders, partners, and the surrounding community, the Greater Chatham Initiative holds enormous potential. The development of a 21st century economic system in the Greater Chatham area, and the impact it may have on surrounding communities, stands as a key example of how working together for the advancement of our country can successfully improve other diminishing communities within the United States. ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON — This evening, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) submitted a Motion to Recommit on H.R. 4775, a bill that would permanently weaken the Clean Air Act, as well as future air pollution health standards for all criteria pollutants. Rush’s Motion to Recommit would strike provisions of the bill if the EPA Administrator, in consultation with the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, found that they would increase health problems, including asthma attacks, respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, stroke, heart attacks, or other serious harms to human health, especially for vulnerable populations such as pregnant women, children, the elderly, outdoor workers and low income communities. "In communities such as the one I represent in Chicago, this bill would exacerbate a problem that already impacts thousands of American households," said Rush. "In its latest report entitled State of the Air 2016 the American Lung Association gives Cook County, Illinois, which includes my district on the Southside of Chicago, an 'F' for its ozone grade." To view the entirety of Rush’s remarks click on the following video: Rush also submitted an amendment that would allow federal, state, local or tribal permitting agencies to opt-out of section 3(d) of the bill if the agency determines that issuing the bill’s requirements for issuing a preconstruction permit will: increase air pollution, slow permitting, increase regulatory uncertainty, foster litigation, shift the burden of pollution control from new pollution sources to existing sources or increase the overall cost of achieving a new or revised national ambient air quality standard within their jurisdiction ###
06.06.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after recent remarks made by Governor Bruce Rauner about Chicago Public Schools: “The children of Chicago Public Schools deserve state government leadership with a vision of excellence for their schools and the commitment and creativity to implement that vision. “By comparing the schools to crumbling prisons and the Southern and Central Illinois communities with those of Chicago, Governor Rauner is only sowing seeds of discord and divisiveness. “The result of which distracts from what is most important that of the uncertain educational future of our children. It’s time to put political agendas and egos aside and tend to the state’s business of education.” ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) conducted the Energy & Commerce Committee hearing on Federal Trade Commission (FTC) policy for the subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade. The hearing addressed the FTC’s ability to prevent unfair methods of competition or deceptive acts or practices by industry players. Rush raised questions on the need for bills he introduced this Congress that included H.R. 5255 (To amend the Federal Trade Commission Act to permit the Federal Trade Commission to enforce such Act against certain tax-exempt organizations) and H.R. 5212 (Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act of 2016). Rush Questions Edith Ramirez, FTC Chairwoman More video of Congressman Rush's questions: ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) called Mayor Louis Presta of Crestwood to congratulate him on the Village’s successful application for an independent ZIP code. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) recently confirmed, based off the results of surveying over 6,000 residents, that it would grant the Village of Crestwood its own ZIP code. “I am proud of the Village of Crestwood’s accomplishments and their willingness to persist and not take no for an answer. Although, it has been a long fight, we have finally won,” said Rush. “I congratulate all the citizens of Crestwood and Mayor Presta on this well-deserved victory.” Securing an independent ZIP code for Crestwood is the culmination of years of efforts and requests from Rush and Village officials to USPS. In December 2014, per USPS requirements, Rush and Presta convened a town hall meeting to gather residents’ input about changing Crestwood’s ZIP code. Inconsistencies in the process led Rush to request an investigation by the USPS Office of Inspector General who recommended changes in USPS procedure and a reevaluation of Crestwood’s application. Throughout the process, Rush met with Crestwood village officials including Mayor Presta and Trustee Theresa Flynn to discuss how he could support the Village’s request. The new ZIP code will be effective July 1, 2017. Until that time, the Village of Crestwood will continue to share a ZIP code with the Village of Midlothian. ###
05.02.2016	CHICAGO — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced that he has received a letter from Amazon.com indicating that they will expand their Prime Free Same-Day Delivery service to all residents in the City of Chicago. After receiving this letter, Rush said, “I am pleased to see that Amazon.com and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, are doing the right thing and serving all residents of the City of Chicago. As I said on the floor of the US House of Representatives last week, ’Black Americans' dollars are just as green as any other Americans' dollars,’ and I am glad that Amazon.com recognizes that.” A copy of the letter from Amazon.com can be viewed below. ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House floor to address an article published in Bloomberg revealing that Amazon.com’s Prime Free Same-Day Delivery is unavailable to residents in primarily African-American ZIP codes. To view Rush’s remarks click the video below: Rush also sent letters to Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos and the Federal Trade Commission seeking an investigation into Amazon.com’s delivery practices. ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos to address a recent article published in Bloomberg revealing that Amazon.com’s Prime Free Same-Day Delivery is unavailable to residents in primarily African-American ZIP codes. “Unfortunately, though, the situation with Amazon.com is not a unique experience for people of color,” said Rush. “Today, in 2016, too many Americans still are denied services and access to goods based off the color of their skin. Amazon.com’s assertions of impartiality and a numbers-based approach to the availability of its Prime Free Same-Day Delivery has been disparate and, seemingly, discriminatory.” Rush also sent a second letter to the Federal Trade Commission seeking an investigation into Amazon.com’s delivery practices. The Bloomberg article exposed that in addition to Chicago, Bloomberg found similar situations occurring in five other cities — Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, New York, and Washington, D.C. Rush’s letters are below for viewing. ###
04.22.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the Illinois General Assembly passed legislation to keep the state’s public universities and colleges open through the summer: “The Illinois General Assembly took a bold step forward today in passing legislation that would continue the flow of funding to the state’s institutions of higher learning in particular Chicago State University, located within the 1st Congressional District. I applaud our state lawmakers for making the right decision to support students and staff who depend on the functioning of these state-run institutions. “This is only but one step in the right direction and I hope for a long-term plan to keep universities open and social service programs operational.” Rush also to spoke on the House floor this week to address the university’s budget crisis. To view Rush’s statement click the video below: ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) took to the House floor to put a national spotlight on the budget crisis in Illinois undermining the existence of Chicago State University (CSU). CSU, located within the 1st Congressional District, is on the verge of closing in lieu of receiving state funding, vital to continuing its operations. Below is the video and transcript of Rush's remarks: Text of Rush's Floor Statement: Mr. Speaker, I come here to the House floor today to express my deep concern and disappointment regarding the grave financial challenges facing the Chicago State University, which is located in my district on the south side of Chicago. Mr. Speaker, due to the enormous budget crisis currently taking place in my home state of Illinois, the university has not received the State funding that is essential to maintaining its multifaceted operations. Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, after 7 months of utilizing its financial reserves, Chicago State University is now in a dire position. Chicago State University must confront the real possibility of closing its doors in the immediate future. Mr. Speaker, the impact of this pending reality is far reaching in its scope, and it would adversely affect thousands of students and hundreds of faculty and staff, many of whom reside in my district, the 1st District of Illinois. The entire Chicagoland region would be severely adversely affected by the closing of the Chicago State University. Mr. Speaker, my district is home to 4,300 students who are enrolled at Chicago State. Fifty-eight percent of these students are my constituents. The great need for this institution is demonstrated by the fact that almost 88 percent of enrolled students receive financial aid. Of those students on financial aid, 44 percent are first-generation college students, and 54 percent of these students are low-income individuals. In fact, Mr. Speaker, Chicago State University is renowned for recruiting and graduating nontraditional minority students who, due to a variety of reasons, have been denied many of the economic, social, and educational benefits enjoyed by the greater American society. As U.S. News and World Report notes, Chicago State University ranks first in Illinois in awarding bachelor's degrees to African-Americans in the physical sciences, health professions, and other related sciences. Additionally, the school also ranks fourth in Illinois in awarding baccalaureate degrees to Latino students in the education sector. Mr. Speaker, closing Chicago State University, even on a temporary basis, would have a profound impact on the lives of all these students who have worked so hard to beat the odds and who desperately seek to provide a better life for themselves and for their families. Additionally, as one of my district's largest employers, if the university were to close, it would have a devastating rippling effect on the economics of Chicago's greater south side and also in the lives of the 850 faculty and staff who are employed by Chicago State University. Undoubtedly, the school's closing would also stifle any opportunity for economic recovery in communities on Chicago's south side and in the nearby suburban area of the city of Chicago. To help address this pending dire situation, in the coming days I will be introducing a bill in the House to provide Federal assistance to the university until this budget impasse in the State of Illinois can be resolved. Mr. Speaker, Chicago State University is far too important to the families, to the communities that I represent, to simply leave its fate to chance or to the political gamesmanship and indifference of its governmental leaders. Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner should not allow this historically crucial, minority-serving institution of higher education that so faithfully serves the needs of African Americans and Latino American students to shut down on his watch. Legislative leaders in the State of Illinois must not allow this legendary institution to close its doors on current and future generations of upward-bound students. Mr. Speaker, April 29 will be forever be known as the Day of Educational Infamy in my State of Illinois. It will be regarded as the day that Illinois lawmakers let the students of Chicago State University down. It will be regarded as the day that Illinois lawmakers let the citizens of the State of Illinois down. It will be regarded as the day that Illinois lawmakers stood in the schoolhouse door to deny access to the universally acknowledged benefits of higher education to predominantly minority students who study and matriculate at the Chicago State University. Mr. Speaker, we cannot afford to not afford to fund the Chicago State University. We must do everything in our power to address this ominous situation and provide help to this critical institution that has proven to be so vital to the needs of my constituents, to the needs of the citizens of the State of Illinois, and to our Nation as a whole. We must act, and we must act now. Save Chicago State. Save Chicago State. Save Chicago State University. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. ###
03.20.2016	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) joined President Barack Obama’s delegation to Havana, Cuba in support of the President’s continued efforts to engage and empower the Cuban people. President Obama will be the first American President since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 to visit Cuba; President Coolidge traveled to Cuba on a U.S. battleship. On December 17, 2014, President Obama announced — along with President Raúl Castro of Cuba — that the United States and Cuba would begin a new chapter and take steps to normalize relations. Now, the President is taking the next steps to renew U.S. relations and end an outdated approach on Cuba, and promote more effective change that supports the Cuban people and national security interests. “We want to open up more opportunities for U.S. businesses and travelers to engage with Cuba, and we want the Cuban government to open up more opportunities for its people to benefit from that engagement and remove restrictions that aim to dictate to Americans where they can travel,” said Rush. In April 2009 Rush joined six other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) on a mission to seek expanded trade opportunities for American businesses. Rush was a cosponsor of H. R. 874, “The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2009. H.R. 874 was legislation that would end the ban on travel by Americans to Cuba. Rush was one of three U.S. officials to meet with former Cuban President Fidel Castro and current President Raúl Castro. ###
03.07.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will host an information session on federal grant opportunities on Tuesday, March 8, 2016 at Chicago State University. The session will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. located at 9501 S. King Drive, in the 4th Floor auditorium of the Academic Library. Rush stated, “I am well aware of the extraordinary financial burden many non-profit organizations are facing as a result of Illinois’ budget woes. The lack of state funding is, in too many cases, significantly impacting the operations of non-profits in my Congressional District, putting their future in jeopardy.” Presidents, Development Officers and Grant Writers from nearly 50 nonprofit organizations will be in attendance. Representatives from the U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Illinois Juvenile Justice Commission, and the Illinois Arts Council Agency will present an overview of funding opportunities and share strategies, tips and resources to assist with submitting strong grant applications. ###
02.29.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) brought home another victory for his constituents and underrepresented Americans in the energy and manufacturing fields as his bill, H.R. 4583, To promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce, passed in the House on a suspension vote — a practice typically reserved for noncontroversial legislation that requires a two-third majority to pass. “Today, the American public witnessed a House united in creating economic growth for all people,” said Rush. “Here we have bipartisan Members of the Energy and Commerce Committee who represent various constituencies from diverse regions of the country and who come with different political persuasions. We were able to put aside our differences and focus our efforts on bringing forth a jobs bill that will benefit all communities and help lift up the entire American economy.” H.R. 4583 provides a pathway to employment for minorities and other historically underrepresented communities in the energy sector. The bill is a bipartisan effort to create a comprehensive strategy for initiating collaboration between the Departments of Energy, Commerce, and Labor, as well as industry, schools, community colleges, universities, workforce development organizations and other stakeholders in order to engage, inform, train and recruit minorities for the energy jobs of the present and future. Additionally, this important legislation will help increase outreach to minority-serving educational institutions to ensure that the wealth of existing resources at the Department of Energy, including the national research laboratories, are made available to these worthy establishments. It will also provide additional outreach to displaced and unemployed energy and manufacturing workers, with the objective of improving the opportunities for these candidates to find employment. The 21st Century Workforce Act is a prime example of how, by working together for the betterment of our country, the federal government can effectively help lift up communities, while also securing the United States’ future in the energy and manufacturing sectors. ###
02.18.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby Rush (D-Ill.), U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), the Illinois Department of Transportation and the City of Chicago today announced a $1.25 million federal railroad safety grant that will help cover the cost of design work for an important grade separation project on 95th Street in Chicago that is part of the CREATE Program. The grant from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) is part of Safe Transportation of Energy Products (STEP) by Rail Program. The CREATE program competed against applicants around the country for a share of $10 million in funding to improve highway-rail grade crossings and tracks along routes that transport energy products like crude oil and ethanol. Funding was awarded to the Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) for design and engineering services to construct a highway-rail grade separation for Union Pacific’s (UP) double track main line that crosses 95th Street at Eggleston Avenue in Chicago. On a typical day, the crossing handles 24 UP and CSX freight trains and two Amtrak trains as well 24,000 motor vehicles and 700 buses carrying 18,000 passengers. “I am pleased that the Federal Railroad Administration has awarded funds through the STEP by Rail Program for this CREATE project in the Washington Heights community. This grade separation project, which will reduce traffic congestion and improve vehicular and train movement at 95th Street and South Eggleston Avenue, is welcome news for community residents and the membership of the historic Trinity United Church of Christ which sits parallel to the Union Pacific main line,” said Rush. “I will continue to work with my congressional colleagues, the City and State of Illinois to support these types of federal programs that provide tremendous benefit to our constituents.” “Separating train traffic from vehicle traffic is first and foremost a safety issue — not just for those crossing the tracks, but for those who are counting on first-responders to make it through traffic during an emergency,” said Durbin. “Chicago is the center of rail transportation in the Midwest and while that boosts economic activity, it can slow down surrounding communities that have to deal with increases in traffic and noise, and pose safety issues from trains carrying hazardous material such as crude oil. I have consistently supported this federal program, which aids the City's efforts to improve safety and alleviate congestion in a region that desperately needs it.” “The Illinois economy depends on a safe and efficient transportation network to move people and products across our state,” Kirk said. “By reducing road and rail congestion on 95th Street, this project will help maintain Chicago’s role as a key transportation hub at the crossroads of the nation.” “We at the Illinois Department of Transportation are proud to have played a lead role in the effort to secure this funding that will help to improve safety and quality of life throughout the region,” said Illinois Transportation Secretary Randy Blankenhorn. “The CREATE program and projects like these are key to promoting economic development throughout the state and maintaining Illinois’ status as the transportation hub of North America.” “Chicago is the economic engine of the Midwest and the center of our nation’s railroads, making this federal grant an important part of the ongoing work to increase the efficiency and safety of the region's rail infrastructure,” said Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. “I want to thank our federal partners for identifying the value in investing in CREATE Program and the important grade separation project on the 95th Street in Chicago.” “The City of Chicago is grateful that the FRA has recognized the importance of the CREATE Program and this critically needed grade separation on 95th Street in Chicago,” said CDOT Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld. “This grant of design funding will accelerate our efforts to build a grade separation that will improve safety and eliminate traffic delays at this crossing that handles more than two dozen trains and tens of thousands of motorists and transit passengers each day.” The CREATE (Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency) Program is a partnership that includes the City of Chicago, the State of Illinois, the U.S. Department of Transportation, Metra, Amtrak and the nation’s freight railroads that is designed to eliminate freight rail and motor vehicle bottlenecks, boost the economy of northeastern Illinois and improve the overall safety and environment of the region. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), along with other members of the Chicago delegation, requested a meeting with Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx. The Chicago members’ agenda will be to discuss a Local Hiring Contract Initiative that addresses the recent O’Hare International Airport infrastructure plan announcement made in January. The infrastructure plan will reportedly create thousands of jobs over the life of the project. The projected $1.3 billion for O’Hare modernizations will help to build Ladders of Opportunity for many neighborhoods and its residents in addition, to over $200 million in TIFIA loan funds for the Chicago Transit Authority’s rail car refurbishment program. Below is the text of the letter: ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), ranking democratic member of the Subcommittee on Energy & Power continues to put pressure on the Energy & Commerce Committee to increase funding toward training for manufacturing and energy jobs for underrepresented groups. In his opening statement at a markup yesterday, Rush urged the Committee to move the 21st Century Workforce Development bill through the legislative process. The bill would make training minorities, women, veterans, and displaced workers a national priority. It would also establish a clearinghouse for information on resources regarding training and workforce development programs. In a subcommittee markup yesterday evening Rush addressed this concern. Below is a transcript of his remarks: “Mr. Chairman, I must confess I am more disappointed with what is omitted from today’s package of bills than I am excited about what is included. “Specifically, Mr. Chairman, my office has continuously worked with the majority on workforce legislation that both sides have previously expressed support for. “In fact, less than a year ago this subcommittee held a hearing on the 21st Century Workforce legislation where we heard from witnesses representing organizations as diverse as the National Electrical Contractors Association to Hispanics in Energy, all strongly supporting the bill. “In that same hearing, Mr. Chairman, Members on the majority side gushed over Charles Wilson, a young man from my own district of Englewood in Chicago, who had beaten the odds by overcoming his impoverished upbringing to become a Senior Nuclear Reactor Operator Trainer. “Many colleagues from both sides of the aisle praised Mr. Wilson for his uplifting life story and remarked on how the 21st Century Workforce legislation would help to produce additional Charles Wilsons all across the country. “So the question I pose now, Mr. Chairman, is what happened since then? Why has this subcommittee still not acted to move this commonsense piece of legislation forward? “Mr. Chairman, tomorrow we will be marking up bills that will benefit selective industries from brick makers to coal refuse facilities. “Additionally, the bills before us will make it easier for utilities to consolidate and merge and pipeline companies to circumvent the rights of property owners. “Yet, where is the relief for communities that look like the one I represent? What is this subcommittee doing to help minorities, women, veterans, and displaced energy workers find good-paying jobs and careers? “Mr. Chairman, I find it very difficult to explain to my constituents why this subcommittee has yet to move a bill that has publicly received such widespread, bipartisan support. “In fact, not only has the 21st Century Workforce bill received public support from Members on both sides, but it also enjoys the support of stakeholders as diverse as the American Petroleum Institute, Halliburton, and BP, all the way to nonprofit organizations such as the American Association of Blacks in Energy, the National Urban League, and the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education. “So again, Mr. Chairman, I must ask: what is the hold up? “While it is a nice gesture that the subcommittee will mark up a bill that would finally, in 2016, strike offensive terms such as “negro” and “oriental” from parts of the federal statute. “I can assure you, Mr. Chairman, that for constituencies such as the one I represent, a much more meaningful and impactful message would be to actually provide opportunity and assistance to historically overlooked and underserved communities that need help the most. “So, Mr. Chairman, I hope that by the time this package of bills reaches the full committee markup it will also include the 21st Century Workforce legislation. “And if not, at the very least, I hope that these perpetually overlooked communities will receive an explanation as to why their interests are still not being addressed. “Thank you and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) lent his voice to the fight of the Mondelēz workers who stand to lose their jobs as a result of the company’s decision to shut down several production lines at their bakery facility located in the 1st Congressional District. Mondelēz announced its intention to lay off 600 employees, and move the production to Salinas, Mexico to save money. Rush recently spoke with representatives of The Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union and shared his position in a videotaped recording. This union represents the plant’s employees and is leading the workers’ campaign to keep the jobs in the Chicago bakery. “For more than 60 years, hardworking men & women, many of whom live in my district, have made cookies and crackers enjoyed by people in Chicago and across the country. Cookies and crackers as American as apple pie, with names like Oreo and Ritz Crackers, have been produced and enjoyed,” said Rush. “Now, the plan is to send these jobs to Mexico and then ship the products produced there back to the U.S. for sale in the very communities where they laid off American workers. This is insulting and shows a total disregard for my constituents.” The economic reach of these layoffs is far-reaching, affecting the individual, their families, their community, our city and nation. Individuals are left with no employment or benefits; economically devastating the community in which the plant is located; and undermining the future of the families affected. “Last summer, after learning about the potential loss of jobs at the Mondelēz facility, I brought executives of the company to my office to urge them to keep their investment in Chicago and maintain these good-paying jobs at this facility. I regret their decision not to do so.” “Free trade agreements have shown time and time again that good-paying manufacturing jobs are being shipped abroad. Even now, 21 years after the passage of NAFTA, we are still seeing its impacts on American manufacturing.” Here, Rush expresses his views on the pending job loss. ###
02.05.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will join the Mikva Challenge Chicago Youth Voice Congress at Jones College Prep High School on Saturday, February 6, 2016. Rush will speak to a group of 500 students to discuss and share their ideas on how to improve their communities. “Youth engagement is one of our nation’s most powerful tools. I believe that when we invest and empower our youth we prepare strong leaders for our future. The Mikva Challenge continues to touch the lives of young people every day and inspire them to engage their communities for better outcomes,” Rush stated. The afternoon portion of the Congress will feature 40 elected officials and civic leaders meeting with small groups of students to discuss how they can improve their schools and communities. Rush will speak at 1:00 p.m. for the youth and civic leader dialogues. ###
01.25.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter to Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner to address the impending financial crisis facing Chicago State University. Rush’s letter to Governor Rauner explains that the state’s budget impasse could have a detrimental effect on the University, located within the 1st Congressional District. Rush asks Governor Rauner to take immediate action in funding the University’s operations. By doing so, the state can avoid the devastating economic impact on the students, faculty, residents and community. Below is the text of the letter: ###
01.22.2016	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement marking the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision today: “The Supreme Court ruled in favor of a woman’s right to choose and make her own reproductive health decisions on January 22, 1973. The Court’s decision to back women’s constitutional right remains the correct choice as it leaves the power in the hands to which it belongs.” ###
01.18.2016	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on Rev. Dr. Martin L. King, Jr. Day in honor of the civil rights leader’s birthday on January 15, 1929: “Many Americans across the country are honoring the life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin L. King, Jr. and his contributions to our nation. As we take time to reflect on Dr. King’s legacy, let us remember to follow his example of being understanding and compassionate toward one another. “Dr. King fought for equality and justice for African Americans, women, working-class families and others marginalized by society. We must continue his fight and draw from his strength to ensure equal access to fair wages, stable employment and quality education. It will take the same commitment Dr. King demonstrated to make this a reality for all those still locked out of such opportunities. “I believe Dr. King’s legacy remains the benchmark we should strive to meet to make America all it should and can be. If we work together and see the humanity in all of us, his dream will be realized in our lifetime.” ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address: “I applaud President Obama for focusing on uniting Americans across this country in tonight’s State of the Union address. The President asked each of us to look within and see how we can take responsibility for shaping our country’s future. “Reassuring equitability and respect for one another is at the root of change. The President highlighted necessary changes in education, clean energy and healthcare. It is not unrealistic to offer Pre-K for all and insure every student the hands-on computer science and math classes that will make them job-ready and to make college affordable for every American. “Investing in our ever-changing economy means supporting workers and start-ups and small businesses by giving them more of a voice, not less. This means our businesses have created jobs every single month in addition to increasing health care coverage for nearly eighteen million Americans.” ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sent a letter today to United States Postmaster General Megan J. Brennan regarding the situation surrounding the Village of Crestwood’s request for an independent ZIP code. Following years of stonewalling and disparate treatment by the United States Postal Service (USPS), Rush, last year, requested an investigation by the USPS Office of the Inspector General. This investigation clearly documents how USPS treated Crestwood differently than other municipalities in the country. With his letter, Rush requests that the Postmaster General right this wrong. A copy of the letter is below:
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) joined 315 other Members of the House of Representatives in passing the omnibus bill that will fund the federal government until September 30, 2016. In October, Congress enacted a two-year budget deal that increased spending limits by $88 billion; a significant step away from the draconian cuts enacted by the Sequestration Act of 2014. This omnibus bill brings to fruition these increased spending limits that will impact the entire federal government. Key among these increases for the nation and the citizens of the 1st Congressional District are: Food Safety/Nutrition Programs $2.73 billion for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which is $132 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $6.35 billion for Special Supplemental Nutrition for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), which is fully consistent with the current estimate of need. The Omnibus does not include proposed language preempting state laws on the labeling of genetically modified foods. Public Safety/Criminal Justice Programs $480 million for Violence Against Women Prevention and Prosecution programs which is $50 million more than the FY2015 level when adjusted for the inclusion of trafficking grants in this heading. $270.2 million for Juvenile Justice, which is $18.7 million more than the FY2015 level. Defense Spending $125 million for Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Psychological Health research and $282 million for cancer research, $1.5 million more than FY2015. 1.3% pay raise for military personnel. $25 million for STARBASE, a STEM education program for fifth graders, the same as FY2015. Energy Programs $2.1 billion for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which is $136 million more than the FY2015 enacted level. $206 million for activities to modernize the electricity grid, which is $59 million than the FY2015 enacted level. $3.4 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which is the same as the 2015 enacted level. Homeland Security $50 million in new funding to help state and local communities counter violent extremism and to help state and local law enforcement prepare for and respond to complex, coordinated terrorist attacks. Health Programs $2.8 billion for Child Care and Development Block Grants, which is $326 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $835 million for Seniors’ Nutrition programs, which is $20 million more than the 2015 enacted level. Education Programs $9.2 billion for Head Start, which is $570 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $22.5 billion for Pell Grants, which is the same as the 2015 enacted level. When combined with mandatory funding, these discretionary funds will enable the maximum grant to increase to an estimated $5,915, an increase of $140 in the 2016-2017 school year $11.9 billion for Special Education state grants (IDEA), which is $415 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $2.7 billion for WIOA Job Training Formula Grant program, which is $86 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $450 million for School Improvement Grants, which received $506 million in 2015. $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, which is the same as the FY2015 enacted level. $153 million for Math and Science Partnerships, which is the same as the FY2015 enacted level. Infrastructure Programs $500 million for National Infrastructure Investments (TIGER), which is equal to the 2015 enacted level. $50 million for Railroad Safety Grants, $25 million for rail infrastructure improvements and $25 million for positive train control grants. Housing Programs $17.7 billion for Section 8 Tenant Based Rental Assistance renewals, which is $195 million more than the 2015 enacted level and is sufficient to meet expected need based on updated estimates. $60 million for HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH), which is $15 million below the 2015 enacted level. $10.4 billion for Section 8 Project Based Rental Assistance renewals, which is $885 million more than the 2015 enacted level and is sufficient to meet expected need based on updated estimates. $4.5 billion for Public Housing Operating Fund, which is $60 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $125 million for Choice Neighborhoods Initiative, which is $45 million more than the 2015 enacted level. $3 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), which is equal to the 2015 enacted level $950 million for HOME Investment Partnerships, which is $50 million more than the 2015 enacted level. For more information on the bill see below: ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the University of Chicago announced that it would add a Level 1 adult trauma care to its Hyde Park campus: “I applaud University of Chicago Medical Center President Sharon O'Keefe, who has worked with me and kept me abreast of this important breakthrough for the residents of the south side of Chicago. This has been an important issue for me, in part because of the death of my son, Huey who had to be transported to Christ Hospital in Oak Lawn, although he was shot a half block from a southeast side Chicago hospital in 1999. “Unfortunately, over 45 million Americans reside in Trauma Deserts and lack access to major trauma centers within the ‘golden hour’ post injury when chances of survival are greatest (American Journal of Public Health — Trauma Deserts). “I am pleased to know that is now changing for my constituents in the 1st Congressional District.” ###
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after delegates to the COP21 Paris Climate Summit announced a final agreement to limit carbon pollution and address the climate crisis: “I commend President Obama, President Hollande, Secretary Kerry and the entire U.N. delegation on this historic international climate change agreement. The world has come together to put a halt to increasing global emissions and address the real effects of climate change. “This will inspire future generations to care for our planet collectively and work cohesively with other nations. Cutting carbon pollution means bringing cleaner, more reliable energy. This can mean not only cutting pollution, but also saving families money on their energy bills.” ###
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) signed on to an Illinois delegation letter to address the Canadian Pacific-Norfolk Southern merger: The full text of the letter is below.
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced his strong support for Teamsters Local 727 in their unfair labor practice strike against Coca-Cola Refreshments in Niles, IL and at the Alsip, IL facility in his congressional district. The full text of the letter is below:
12.07.2015	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced that the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) will investigate the Chicago Police Department (CPD). The DOJ investigation comes after the release of a CPD dash cam video showing the shooting death of Laquan McDonald: “Finally, we have just received official word that our pleas, petitions and prayers have been honored. The welcome news that the U.S. Justice Department will finally investigate the patterns and practices of the Chicago Police Department gives us hope. “We fully expect that that the systemic problems that have caused deep-seated mistrust between minority citizens of this city and the Chicago Police Department will come to a screeching halt.” ###
11.20.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Frank Pallone (D-N.J.) sent a letter to committee chairmen Fred Upton and Ed Whitfield requesting a climate change hearing. A recently released American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) report revealed the parallel between child health care and climate change.
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), joined by fellow Illinois House Democrats, sent a letter to Governor Bruce Rauner decrying his comments about accepting Syrian refugees into the state. The governor’s announcement comes in the wake of revelations that one of the terrorists who took part in the in Paris atrocities last week may have entered Europe using a Syrian passport. Rep. Rush is joined by several other notable members of the Illinois congressional delegation in condemning the governor’s stance on refugees, including Reps. Luis V. Gutiérrez, Danny K. Davis, Janice D. Schakowsky, Bill Foster, Tammy Duckworth and Robin L. Kelly, who are all signatories to the letter. The letter highlights the historic role of the United States in providing a safe haven for those caught up in conflict, as well as the economic and social contributions made by immigrants to this country, which have helped to ensure its success. The authors acknowledge the legitimate concerns held by many Americans regarding this issue emphasizing the need for “diligent security screening”, especially in light of the horrific events in Paris. Nevertheless they maintain that the USA should not withdraw from its responsibility to those fleeing oppression. Rep. Rush added, “We have to be hypersensitive to terrorists abusing America’s generosity in terms of extending our borders to a limited group of Syrian refugees. We cannot close our borders off exclusively to any immigrant group based on creed, color, religion or sexual orientation. We have systems in place to ensure that those that seek to harm us are not allowed in this country and as long as we are diligent in using those systems we are up to the challenge to protect ourselves from any terrorist attack. The flow of immigrants fueled the rapid, unsurpassed promise of this nation. To turn the spigot off now will be turning our backs on our past and our future.” ###
11.06.2015	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after President Barack Obama’s Keystone XL Pipeline announcement: “After extensive review, encompassing the terms of two separate Secretaries of State, Hillary Clinton and John Kerry, and covering the course of over a seven-year timespan, President Obama has made the decision to reject the application for the Keystone XL Pipeline. The energy picture both domestically and globally looks very different now than when this application was first submitted. Through the development of new technologies in fossil fuel production and technological advancements and investments in renewable energy sources, the United States has become even closer to realizing our goal of total energy independence. “I respect the thorough review process that the Obama Administration has undertaken before coming to today’s decision. As always, as the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power, I will continue to advocate for an all-of-the-above energy policy that keeps the lights on for American families, while also protecting the environment and providing employment, careers, and economic opportunities for all segments of the population.” ###
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) reintroduced the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2015 after learning of the shooting death of 9-year-old, Tyshawn Lee. “Last night another Chicagoan lost his life to the city’s gun violence,” stated Rush. “Tyshawn’s life was cut short and we may never know why, but we must put an end to the plague of gun violence sweeping our communities. We are losing a generation to self-inflicted murder and mayhem.” Blair’s bill would implement a federal system of licensing individuals who possess guns and a national gun registry to help law enforcement keep track of the flow of guns into communities. The of purpose of the bill would specifically: Protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and negligent or reckless death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to criminals and youths; Ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling and storage of these firearms; Restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, youth and other persons prohibited by Federal law from receiving firearms; Facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by Federal and State Law enforcement agencies; and Hold criminally and civilly liable those who distribute the transfer of qualifying firearms, causing risk of injury and negligent or reckless death associated with their transfer. Rush also stated, “We are not powerless to end this community carnage. I plead with the younger generation to let us come together to work together to end this senseless violence in another way.” ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted with 265 Democratic and Republican Members of Congress to pass H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, that creates jobs, protects seniors, affirms the full faith and credit of the United States and invests in our future. “This vote will help alleviate some of the deeply felt concerns of my constituents regarding their family’s economic future,” said Rush. This measure would also prevent a 52 percent spike in Medicare Part B premiums in 2016 for the 30 percent of beneficiaries not covered by the “hold harmless” provision of the Social Security Act. These beneficiaries would instead see base premium increases limited to $120 monthly, the increase that would have applied to all beneficiaries in the absence of the hold harmless provision. All those currently held harmless would continue to pay the $104.90 that they are currently paying and the Part B deductible for all Medicare beneficiaries would be set at approximately $169, versus the $223 deductible projected in 2016 under current law. The bill would also eliminate the “benefit cliff” for the Social Security Disability Insurance Program (SSDI) which currently would take effect in 2016 by reallocating Social Security payroll taxes through 2022. The bipartisan budget agreement passed today enables crucial investments in America’s future after years of damage caused by the sequester — securing funding increases in defense and domestic initiatives over the next two years, and allowing for investments in such critical areas as education and R&D. Fending off the Republican threat of a first-ever U.S. default, this bill makes clear that the full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable and unbreakable with a clean debt limit suspension. Put simply, this bipartisan budget agreement provides greater economic certainty to businesses and families, and it is estimated that in addition to creating an additional 340,000 jobs in 2016 alone it will also yield increased economic growth. ###
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON — The exorbitant and costly fees that American families incur to phone incarcerated loved ones financially drains them every year. According to Prison Legal News, more than two million Americans are housed within prison walls. For this reason, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) reintroduced H.R. 3638, the Family Telephone Connection Protection Act. Rush reintroduced this legislation to put an end to the kickbacks — also known as site commissions — received by prisons based on incoming and outgoing calls between inmates and their loved ones. “For too many years we have allowed predatory companies to gauge millions of dollars from unsuspecting, hardworking families who would like to speak with their incarcerated loved ones,” expressed Rush. “Communication is a basic right that does not end after entering the penal system. Therefore, I, along with my colleagues, ask the FCC to do the right thing and put an end to insane and insidious phone rates. Sixty percent of what prisoners’ families pay to receive phone calls from their incarcerated loved ones has nothing to do to with the cost of the phone services provided.” Research proves that there is a significant decline in recidivism for inmates who communicate with family while incarcerated compared to those who do not. Expensive phone call rates deter such communication and result in costly re-incarceration. The FCC regulates interstate and international communications by radio, television, wire (telephone), satellite and cable in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories. It is an independent U.S. government agency overseen by Congress. The Commission is the United States’ primary authority for communications law, regulation and technological innovation. Rush’s legislation implores the FCC to provide a market-based solution to curb these high telephone rates and protect American families from prisons profits due to increased rates. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 702, to Adapt to Changing Crude Oil Market Conditions. This legislation would change current U.S. policy by lifting all restrictions on crude oil exports. Rush submitted an amendment that was not allowed by the majority party which would have expanded access for minority- and women-owned firms to more fully participate in the energy supply chain if the export ban is lifted. “My most pressing concern is making sure, up front and from the beginning, that minority firms would be part of the pipeline and would directly benefit from vendor and contracting opportunities that lifting this ban would create. As I have stated to my colleagues time and time again: Cut us in or cut it out!” The legislation, sponsored by Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas) was approved by a 261-159 vote and now must await Senate action. The White House Office of Management and Budget on Wednesday said it would recommend that President Barack Obama veto the measure if it reaches his desk. ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON — Reps. David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-W.Va.) and Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) introduced a bipartisan bill yesterday that would revitalize manufacturing and promote economic development and job creation in depressed areas. The Manufacturing Economic Recovery Act (H.R. 3622) would create tax credits for businesses that utilize former industrial sites to locate their operations. “Wherever you drive along the Ohio River you can see the empty reminders of steel, glass, and chemical jobs that have gone away,” said Rep. McKinley. “It’s time we take action to revitalize communities that have been hurt by manufacturing jobs going overseas. This bill would provide an incentive for companies to locate, grow, and create jobs in areas that need it the most.” “It is quite simple. We need manufacturing jobs in America,” added Rush. “They are essential to our future economic growth as a country. This bill will help offset manufacturing jobs that have gone overseas and, therefore, help the American worker and the American economy.” “Restoring our manufacturing base is not a Republican issue or a Democrat issue,” said McKinley. “This is an area where we can find common ground and work together.” This legislation would create a tax credit for companies that purchase existing manufacturing infrastructure and retrofit it for their use and also provides incentives for companies to hire unemployed workers. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released a statement today after Speaker John Boehner announced his resignation: “We are at a crossroads in Congress. There is a threat of yet another government shutdown and the leader of the House with a bipartisan approach to passing legislation is now stepping down. “There are serious issues facing our country and Congress is suffering from extremist groups who are willing to run this country off the rails. “I wish Speaker Boehner much success in his future endeavors.” ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced today that Chicago State University will receive a grant this fiscal year in the amount $600,000 to develop and establish a Center for STEM Education & Research (CSER). The purpose of the CSER is to connect existing Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) programs, aligning them with the various STEM disciplines within the University, and providing support to student-faculty research collaborations as well as grant-funded research projects and programs. CSER will also help research faculty better prepare students for STEM challenges of the future. Located within the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, CSU has long enjoyed the support of Rep. Rush. “I believe that promoting STEM education, as well as developing educational guidelines for institutions of all levels will help ensure that we are training individuals with the skills necessary to work in energy- and manufacturing-related jobs, including energy efficiency and conservation initiatives, from blue-collar workers, to managers and supervisors, up to and including new entrepreneurs and business creators,” said Rush. Rush’s ongoing push for minority inclusion and participation in STEM is evident in his work in Congress. Last year, Rush introduced H.R.4526 — 21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative Act. The bill directs the Secretary of Energy to establish a comprehensive program to improve the education and training of workers for energy-related jobs, with emphasis on increasing the number of skilled minorities and women trained to work in STEM jobs. The goals of the CSU Center are to: Increase America's Talent Pool by Improving STEM Education for Students in Grades 6–12; Enhance Student Awareness of and Motivation for STEM Education and Careers through Improved Information, Mentoring and Outreach; and Provide Resources and Professional Development to Boost Faculty Research and Proposal Writing Productivity. ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after Pope Francis address to a Joint Session of Congress: “I am humbled by Pope Francis’ visit to the U.S. and his address to Congress. It was an honor to listen to his profound message of social responsibility and compassionate care. “I thank the Pope for reminding us that as Members of Congress we share in the responsibility to serve the people who elected us. It is our responsibility to defend and preserve the dignity of every citizen in the endless and demanding pursuit of the common good; this is the ‘chief aim of all politics’. “As the Pope addressed the needs of the poor in our world it touched a chord with work that I do in Congress. Recognizing much more work has to be done in this millennium to raise people out of extreme poverty which can only be solved through global solidarity. As there are so many who are trapped in a cycle of poverty and need to be given hope. “The Pope also addressed climate change and our ability to avert the most serious effects of the environmental deterioration caused by humans. I agree with the Pope that we can make a difference and play a major role in taking action and implementing strategies for change.” ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in recognition of the 14th anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11, 2001: “As we witnessed the terror attacks on September 11, 2001, our faith was shaken and fear took hold of us. But we were resilient and we took what we learned from that day to move forward — stronger. As a nation, we joined together and became one. “Thousands of Americans lives were taken and so many families suffered the loss of their love ones from the World Trade Center towers, to the Pentagon and the fields of Pennsylvania. We honor all of those we lost that day. “We also saw the courage of selfless first responders — firefighters, police officers and courageous citizens — who helped saved lives, searched for survivors and jeopardized their own safety to rescue others and represent the best of humanity. “We will never forget those who we lost and we must strive to make our country a better, safer and more united place for their families and ours.” ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the announcement that a Level 1 trauma center will be established at Holy Cross Hospital: “After more than five years of fighting for a Level 1 adult trauma center on the South Side, a decision to address the needs of a trauma desert has finally come. “I commend Holy Cross Hospital, Sinai Health System and the University of Chicago for listening to the voices of young people who led this fight for a trauma center. These entities will provide the funding, medical staff, facility and services to serve one of the highest incidences of trauma injury and gun violence in the city. “This issue has always been a great concern of mine that is why, in 2013, I introduced HR 2660 — Trauma Relief Access for Universal Medical Assistance Act. This bill requested that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) allot $100 million for the program of grants to states to promote universal access to trauma care services provided by trauma centers and trauma-related physician specialties. “We cannot stop here. The leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 44, are traumatic injury and gun violence which has taken a huge toll across the country. “Trauma deserts are a national issue and I will continue to work toward a solution.” ###
09.01.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced today in the following statement that he will support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) when it comes to a vote before the House of Representatives next month: “Since the beginning of this process I have been a strong advocate for a diplomatic resolution to this issue. After 14 years, our country is tired of war. We cannot — and must not — allow the diplomatic process to, again, be subverted by those who would perpetually beat the drums of war. “Since the announcement of this deal, my staff and I have met with groups on all sides of this issue and have heard from experts in the field. After reviewing the information that was presented to us I have come to the conclusion that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is the best path forward. “The detractors of this agreement will ask us to return to the negotiating table to secure different terms. I must remind them, though, that this agreement is not a bilateral one between the United States and Iran, but rather a multilateral one negotiated with five other countries. Top diplomats, both from the United States and our negotiating partners, have made it clear that the terms included in this deal were the best possible. Any attempt to renegotiate this agreement would not only scuttle the agreement at hand but would also kill any chance of a diplomatic solution. The JCPOA ensures that Iran will not be able to develop neither uranium nor plutonium weaponry, provides for monitoring and verification by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), requires verifiable steps forward to secure sanctions relief and includes provisions for accountability and enforcement. “It is for these reasons that I am standing with the President in support of this agreement and, accordingly, why I will vote NO on any resolution of disapproval.” ###
08.12.2015	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) attended the Chicago Park District meeting to applaud the board’s decision to vote in favor of naming 31st Street Beach and Park after Dr. Margaret Burroughs. Superintendent Michael P. Kelly, Representatives Bobby L. Rush and Danny K. Davis, Alderman Will Burns and other community members gathered at 31st Street Beach on Tuesday to announce the proposal to name the beach and park after Dr. Burroughs. “I’m very pleased that we have reached an agreement to name 31st Street Beach and Park after Dr. Burroughs,” Rep. Rush stated. “This critical and esteemed park and lakefront will now carry the name of one of the city’s most prominent figures. Dr. Burroughs was a force in Chicago and her legacy is in an ongoing inspiration.” Supt. Kelly recommended to the Chicago Park District Board of Commissioners that 31st Street Beach and Park be named after Dr. Burroughs. Supt. Kelly asked the Commissioners to waive the 45-day notice for public input, due to the extensive community process that has taken place. Dr. Burroughs cofounded the DuSable Museum of African American History and the South Side Community Art Center. She also served for 25 years as a Commissioner on the Chicago Park District Board until her death in 2010. The announcement comes after Rep. Rush began his campaign to name a city landmark after Burroughs in 2012. The Chicago Park District also currently bears an art gallery named for Dr. Burroughs at South Shore Cultural Center. ###
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement regarding Mondelēz International’s announcement that it would be shifting approximately 600 jobs from their Southwest Chicago facility to Mexico: “After learning about the potential loss of jobs at Mondelēz’s Chicago facility located in my district, I brought officials of the company to my office to urge them to keep their investment in Chicago and maintain these good-paying jobs at this facility. I regret their decision not to do so. “I am disappointed that management and labor were unable to come to an agreement that would have potentially kept these jobs in Chicago and I call upon Mondelēz to ensure that these employees have the support they need to transition to new good-paying jobs. “As I said last month when I voted against Trade Promotion Authority, free trade agreements have shown time and time again that good-paying manufacturing jobs are being shipped abroad. Even now, 21 years after the passage of NAFTA, we are still seeing its impacts on American manufacturing.” ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) called for continued action to further U.S. relations with Cuba. Rush introduced H.R. 3306, the POWER Cuba Act of 2015. The POWER Cuba Act would authorize the export of energy resources, energy technologies and related services to Cuba. Recent actions to improve diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cuba such as restoring full diplomacy and the reopening of the Cuban Embassy in Washington are steps in the right direction. Rush’s bill would do more to help spur commerce and help bring Cuba into the 21st Century. “The end of trade restrictions could generate a new market for many types of supplies and services from the United States energy industry,” said Rush. “My bill would promote market access for the efficient exploration, production, storage, supply and distribution of energy resources to our neighbor 90 miles off the coast of Florida. This would include the exportation of crude oil, as well as American technology and technical assistance in developing Cuba’s clean and renewable energy sectors.” According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the United States is the world’s number one producer of oil. Lower prices for U.S. crude oil, compared to international prices, record levels of crude oil in storage, and restrictions on crude oil exports have been cited as contributing factors that may affect future production growth. Yet, there is a market for U.S. crude oil in addition to other energy resources, energy technologies and services. “There are several positive economic benefits associated with passing this legislation,” Rush stated. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted NO, today, on H.R. 1599, the “Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015”. Rush explained his vote by saying: “Recently, I led a discussion with industry experts on food labeling. I was convinced then and I am convinced now that genetically modified foods — often known as GMOs — should be properly labeled. “According to a recent poll, 93 percent of Americans agree that they have the right to know what is in their foods. Many of these people are my constituents and they have made it clear that they want to know what they are eating. “Consumers in 64 countries around the world have the right to know what is in their foods. Why should American consumers be treated any differently? Every single American should have the right and the opportunity to make an informed decision about what they choose to purchase. “Many proponents of this bill argued the need for a uniform national standard. I agree with them. This bill, however, is not the only way to reach that standard. That is why I am proud to support H.R. 913, the “Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act” and urge my colleagues to look at the options it presents. “Simply put, if the clothes we wear are required to list their contents then why not our food?” ###
07.10.2015	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) will host a “Homeowners Resource Fair.” It will take place on Saturday, July 18th from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the Cordell Reed Student Union Building at Chicago State University, 9501 S. King Drive. This event is designed to provide his constituents with a “one-stop shop” experience where resources, information and counseling are available regarding homeownership, mortgage modification, and foreclosure prevention. Various lenders and housing agencies will be in attendance to provide one-on-one consulting opportunities, as well. RSVP at congressmanrushdistrictevents@mail.house.gov. Questions, please call 773-224-6500. ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power, spoke at today’s hearing on H.R. 702, To Adapt to Changing Crude Oil Market Conditions. In Rush’s opening statement he expressed that now is the appropriate time to revisit the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975. He described this law as outdated and stated that it is unnecessarily restricting the export of domestically produced crude oil. Rush’s full statement is in the video below: During the hearing, Rush announced his intent to introduce legislation that would remove limitations on exporting energy resources to Cuba. His proposed bill would promote market access for the exploration, production, storage and distribution of energy resources to our closest Caribbean neighbor. ###
07.07.2015	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the White House Administration announced a new initiative to increase access to solar energy for all Americans, in particular low- and moderate- income communities, while expanding opportunities to join the solar workforce: “As the White House furthers its commitment to expanding workforce development and implementing new clean energy initiatives — our country is moving in the right direction. “I am glad to see the Administration take the lead on addressing the economic gap and will specifically target low- and moderate- income communities. “I remain deeply involved in both public hearings before my subcommittee and in private meetings with some of the most influential leaders within the energy industry, I have been relentlessly stressing the importance of engaging minorities in all facets of the energy sector, including in the oil, gas, nuclear, renewable, and pipeline sectors.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision in King v. Burwell: “Today, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA is the law of the land and every American should have access to affordable healthcare. “This law is designed to help all Americans who cannot afford to pay for their health insurance. The Court’s decision ensures that all eligible Americans, regardless of where they live, have access to life-saving health care. “This is a victory for families and future generations of Americans who seek to receive the rightful right to quality care. Having now lost in the Supreme Court twice, Republicans must end their efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act once and for all. After 60 votes to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, the GOP assault on the newfound health security of millions of Americans must stop.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House Floor yesterday afternoon to push forth an amendment to H.R. 2042, the Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015. H.R. 2042 intends to extend the Environmental Protection Act (EPA) rule’s compliance dates pending judicial review. The bill also would allow state governors to opt out of complying with EPA’s proposed rule for existing power plants, referred to by the agency as its “Clean Power Plan”. Rush’s amendment demanded that state governors must certify that within their State, any ratepayer increases associated with implementing a State or Federal plan would be greater than any costs associated with responding to extreme weather events associated with human-caused climate change. To listen to Rush’s full floor statement click the video below: Last June, EPA proposed a rule for existing power plants, referred to by the agency as its “Clean Power Plan”. When implemented the Clean Power Plan would allow EPA to cut carbon pollution from some of the nation’s oldest and most inefficient power plants, which account for the largest share of greenhouse gases from stationary sources in the country. These power plants are responsible for about one-third of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions and currently there are no federal limits on the amount of carbon pollution these plants are allowed to emit. The Clean Power Plan would decrease power-sector carbon emissions by 30 percent from 2005 levels, by the year 2030. ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted in opposition to H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2016 due to budgetary cuts to essential services. “This bill is not bipartisan and jeopardizes investments that are critical to economic growth, competitiveness and American families’ economic security. I strongly oppose this bill because it fails to protect the safety and security of hardworking American families — proposing cuts to critical community policing services and law enforcement grants,” said Rush. This bill cuts State and Local Law Enforcement grants by 14 percent below the FY 2015 level and: Provides NO funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. Slashes vital Juvenile Justice programs by $68 million or 27 percent below the FY 2015 level. ###
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, during the Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing to review the Department of Energy’s (DOE) first Quadrennial Energy Report draft report, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) sought to garner bipartisan support for Quadrennial Energy Report (QER) legislation that he will soon be introducing. Rush’s bill would amend the Department of Energy Organization Act to replace the current requirement for a biennial energy policy plan with a quadrennial energy review. Rush made his plea for bipartisan support for his bill during the hearing with Department of Energy Secretary, Ernest Moniz, who presented key components of the QER to the subcommittee, focusing on energy transmission, storage, and distribution infrastructure (TS&D). In his opening statement Rush declared, “It is my hope that this bill, like its Senate counterpart that was recently introduced by Senator Coons of Delaware and Senator Alexander of Tennessee, will attract bipartisan support. In fact, I have only held off on introducing the bill as of yet so that my office can continue to hold talks with the majority side in order to find language that both sides can agree on.” Rush went on to state, “Mr. Chairman, I will continue to reach across the aisle for support on this nonpartisan issue of codifying a quadrennial energy review, and I hope we can find common ground.” In June 2013, President Obama initiated a quadrennial cycle of energy reviews as part of the President’s “Climate Action Plan.” On January 9, 2014, President Obama issued a Presidential Memorandum directing the Administration to conduct a Quadrennial Energy Review (QER). Planned annual installments of the QER over the ensuing four years are to focus on resource extraction and processing, energy transport and storage infrastructure, electricity generation, and energy end-use. On April 21, 2015, the first installment of the QER was released, focusing on energy transmission, storage, and distribution infrastructure (TS&D). During the hearing, Rush also commended Secretary Moniz for his leadership in a wide array of different energy topics, including the historic nuclear talks with Iran, establishing the Minorities in Energy Initiative at the Department of Energy, and for overseeing the development of the comprehensive QER. Rush went on to request a meeting with the Secretary to discuss the progress of some of the initiatives that he and Moniz had worked on in the past. “Specifically, I would like to discuss with you the issue of inclusiveness and outreach at the publicly-funded national labs, including but not limited to Argonne and Fermi. My office will be in touch to schedule a meeting between the both of us for the very near future,” Rush informed the Secretary during the questioning portion of the hearing. To listen to Rush’s entire opening statement view the following video: ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON — According to Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), among the 10,000 known diseases, 7,000 of which are considered rare, there are treatments for only 500. Yet, there are many diseases affecting minority communities that often fall by the wayside because minorities are underrepresented in clinical trials. Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power introduced five provisions for adoption into H.R. 6, the “21st Century Cures Act”. “Research professionals tend to work toward solutions to diseases that they have a personal connection with,” said Rush. “That enforces the need for minority participation in order to foster research that gets to the root causes of diseases not only affecting other communities, but cures for underrepresented minority groups. This is why I offered an amendment that will address these disparities by requiring that the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) within the National Institute of Health include within its Strategic Plan ways to increase representation of underrepresented communities in clinical trials.” During today’s Markup the committee adopted two of Rush’s provisions. The first provision will require the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities to include within its strategic plan for biomedical research ways to increase representation of underrepresented communities in clinical trials. The second provision will ensure that it remains a priority at NIH that the biomedical workforce of the future includes groups from traditionally underrepresented communities. The 21st Century Cures Act requires that public, private and research institutions around the country takes bold action to accelerate the discovery, development and delivery of promising new treatments and cures for patients and to maintain our nation’s standing as the biomedical innovation capital of the world. Rush also introduced H.R. 2468 yesterday evening. This bill aims to improve minority inclusion in clinical trials, boost the biomedical workforce in in unrepresented communities and improve outcomes in maternity health. The bill will continue the work of the committee and create legislation toward ending health disparities among minority populations. ###
05.12.2015	CHICAGO — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama announced that the Barack Obama Presidential Center, which will house the Obama Presidential Library, will be located on the South Side of Chicago: “I am overjoyed that the Obama Presidential Library is located in the First Congressional District of Illinois. The Obama Library will attract people to the City of Chicago, the south side and the First Congressional District. It will serve as an economic engine that will create enormous opportunity for the surrounding economically distressed communities. It will be both a centerpiece and an extension to the history to the political and cultural history of this community. “I welcome this decision with its tremendous promise.” ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House Floor about Maryland State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby’s announcement that six Baltimore police officers involved in the death of Freddie Gray, who died last month while in police custody, will face charges. Rush will also appear on the Michael Smerconish show tomorrow morning to continue the discussion about Baltimore resident’s responses. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) announced today that he will oppose H.R. 1890, the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. This bill which would award the President with Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) — commonly known as Fast Track Authority — was passed out of the House Ways and Means Committee last week. Rush explained, “Our recent history has taught us that the trade deals our country has enacted have a negative impact on the American workforce. I believe the underlying trade bill, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), that is currently being negotiated will only further erode America’s manufacturing jobs, particularly the automobile industry. These trade bills have been nothing more than a tourniquet that denied the flow from the poor to rise to the middle-class. “Therefore, we must be mindful of this lesson and not repeat this mistake again. Our country needs a new balanced trade model that creates more jobs in the United States instead of sending them overseas. For this reason, I will vote NO on H.R. 1890, the so called Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015.” ###
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House Floor this evening to address the Baltimore riots after the death of Freddie Gray at the hands of Baltimore police officer. Below is a transcript of Rush’s remarks as prepared for delivery and a link to the video. “Madame Speaker, Mother’s Day is soon approaching and as we take time to honor our mothers I would like to make an appeal to African-American mothers across the United States that they begin to take back our streets from the daily violence too many of our youth experience. It is time now for black mothers to once again rise up. “Beside me today is an image that many people across the nation have seen and are talking about. The image of a strong mother giving her son what I would call a “love whooping” to snatch him back from the grips of senseless street violence plaguing Baltimore. As this picture demonstrates, Madame Speaker, mothers can and must be the mobilizing force to take back our streets. Mothers feel the pain of the loss of a child unlike any other. The primal scream of a mother at the death and sudden departure of her child is unlike any other outcry known to mankind. “As my own history has demonstrated, I am not one to excuse police brutality and police murder and utter disrespect of society whom they are sworn to serve and protect. As members of the Black Panthers have always said “spontaneity is the art of the foolish.” What the rioters fail to consider is how many people in your community were dependent on the CVS drugstore or how many people were looking forward to calling that now burned down senior citizen center home? Simply put senseless destruction of your own neighborhood is not protesting it’s pillaging. It’s not political, it’s pillaging. Nothing more, nothing less. “Beyond Baltimore we must look at the whole picture of violence. The violence that has plagued Baltimore was not sparked out of nowhere. Instead, Madame Speaker, it was sparked by the frustration that so many Americans feel with the reports of the death of yet another young African-American man at the hands of the police. It was sparked by the flame of frustration that far too many of our nation’s youth are facing each and every day of their lives. “That said, Madame Speaker, from Fred Hampton and Mark Clark in 1969 to Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, and now Freddie Gray in 2015 we have seen far too many young men of color fall victim to the very people sworn to serve and protect. “This mother is demonstrating the power of a mother’s love and the power of a mother’s courage; she walked into harm’s way, directly to locate her son demonstrating a power that is beyond imagination and selflessness. “To honor her and the important role that all mothers play in taking back our streets and ending the violence plaguing communities across the nation I call on America’s mothers to wear yellow on Mother’s Day in a symbolic show of solidarity to create a “Mothers in Yellow” movement to end violence that plague this nation’s communities and neighborhoods. “Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) led the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power hearing about the 21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative. Rush introduced the bill in the 113th Congress as H.R. 4526 and it has been adopted into the full committee’s energy initiatives. Rush’s bill seeks to require the Secretary of Energy to establish and carry out a comprehensive program to improve education and training for energy-related jobs particularly for minority participants. To learn more, please click here to visit Energy & Commerce Website. ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) spoke on the House Floor this afternoon in support of S. 535. The Energy Efficiency Improvement Act of 2015 is a bipartisan energy bill to conserve energy, save Americans money and create jobs. Below is a transcript of Rush’s remarks and a link to the video. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 535, the Energy Efficiency Improvement Act of 2015. “Mr. Speaker, this modest but bipartisan piece of legislation combines three separate energy efficiency titles and was passed by unanimous consent out of the Senate last month. “This bill is also similar to H.R. 2126, which was passed out of the House in the last session of Congress on an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 375-36. “Mr. Speaker, the first title of this bill is the Better Buildings Act, which was introduced by my friends and colleagues Mr. McKinley of West Virginia and Mr. Welch of Vermont. “This title simply directs the General Services Administration to develop model leasing provisions and best practices to encourage commercial building owners and tenants to invest in cost-effective energy efficiency measures. “These model leasing provisions may then be used in federal leases and, along with the best practices, shall be made available to state and local governments. “Additionally, Section 103 directs the Department of Energy to conduct a study on the feasibility of significantly improving energy efficiency in commercial buildings through the design and construction of separate tenant spaces with high-performance energy efficiency measures. “Section 104 directs EPA to develop a voluntary “Tenant Star” program within the Energy Star program to promote energy efficiency in separate spaces leased by tenants in commercial buildings. “This data can then be used to establish an Energy Star rating system to recognize tenants in commercial buildings that voluntarily achieve high levels of energy efficiency in separate spaces. “Title II of this bill, the Grid-Enabled Water Heaters, was introduced by my colleague and good friend Chairman Whitfield, along with Mr. Welch, Mr. Latta, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Cramer, and Mr. Doyle. “This section establishes a separate energy efficiency standard for grid-enabled water heaters, which are used in utility demand-response and thermal storage programs. “Finally, Title III of the bill, the Energy Information for Commercial Buildings, introduced by friend and colleague Ms. Castor of Florida, requires federally-leased buildings without Energy Star labels to benchmark and disclose their energy usage data in most cases. “It also requires DOE to complete a study of best practices for and impacts of (1) state and local performance benchmarking and disclosure policies for commercial and multifamily buildings and (2) utility policies for providing aggregated information to owners of multitenant buildings to assist with benchmarking programs. In addition, DOE is required to maintain a database to store and make available public energy-related information on commercial and multifamily buildings. “Mr. Speaker, in recent history we have not been able to pass bipartisan energy legislation through both chambers and into law so it is important for us to move this bill through to the president’s desk so we can demonstrate to the American people that Congress is still capable of functioning properly and legislating on their behalf.” ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on passage of critical federal funding for Medicare and children services: “Today, the House considered H.R. 2, the Bipartisan Permanent Medicare sustainable growth-rate (SGR) Fix & Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Package. I voted YES on this bipartisan initiative, which represents bold progress for our country. At long last, we have permanently replaced the broken SGR formula and will now transition Medicare away from a volume-based system and toward one that rewards value, ensures the accuracy of payments and improves the quality of care. “The package will provide a level of certainty for our low income seniors and their doctors that has eluded them every year for the last two decades, rooted within this broken SGR formula, which has now been eliminated. This continued uncertainty for seniors and their doctors undermined Medicare and created a lack of confidence. This bill puts those problems behind us. Another key priority that has been included in this bill is a provision increasing the quality of care for many older Americans, by providing additional funding that helps low-income seniors pay their Part B premiums. This initiative provides critical support to many low-income seniors. “The bill also contains numerous other key priorities, benefiting America’s children. The bill secures the health of low-income children with a two-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) at the same rates as the Affordable Care Act. Including the CHIP extension as part of the SGR/health extenders package will keep millions of children from losing access to health care and will reassure families that their children will get the care they need when they need it. The bill also expands funding for Community Health Centers (CHCs) by $7.2 billion for two years, and extends funding for the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers for two more years, providing $620 million for the National Health Service Corps and $120 million for Teaching Health Centers. “I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting the bipartisan Permanent SGR Fix & CHIP Reauthorization Package that overall contains numerous provisions that will move the country forward and provide needed health security for seniors, children, and families.” ###
03.12.2015	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement about the passing of civil rights activist Dr. Willie Barrow: “Dr. Willie Barrow dedicated her life to the fight for justice. Her works are many and she will be remembered by her passion and commitment to equality. She was active in working against U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War and led a delegation to North Vietnam. She was also active in the National Urban League and the National Council of Negro Women where she spent time seeking community-based resources for those in need. “Dr. Willie Barrow will forever live in our hearts for demonstrating a life-long commitment to furthering civil rights. The world is better off because Dr. Barrows lived. She left this world in a far better place than when she entered.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) issued the following statement, today, following his decision not to attend Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address before a Joint Meeting of Congress: “My decision not to attend today’s Joint Meeting is not a reflection of the value I place on the US-Israeli partnership, one of the strongest and most valuable relationships to our nation. Rather, it is a condemnation of the decision by the Republican leadership in Congress to bypass established protocol and inject a foreign Head of Government into domestic political debate. This is just the latest example in an ongoing pattern of disrespect to Barack Obama, our President and Commander in Chief. “The Constitution is clear. While the Congress may provide guidelines, the President conducts diplomacy on behalf of the United States. Moving from a philosophy of ‘politics stops at the water’s edge’ to one where a foreign leader is used to achieve domestic political aims is an action that no party has undertaken in the modern history of the Congress. That this Congress under the leadership of Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) would resort to that is unconscionable. “Beyond this there is one overriding point of concern: When the President of the United States is disrespected the American people are disrespected. Therefore, I must signal my disappointment with this action and cannot participate in this Joint Meeting.” ###
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after learning of the passing of 16th Ward Alderman JoAnn Thompson: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of my colleague, Alderman JoAnn Thompson. We all knew JoAnn as an outspoken, strong advocate for the people of the 16th Ward. She rightfully earned her place in the Chicago City Council as a hard working dedicated public servant. A few months ago, I had the opportunity to discuss with JoAnn the promise of a new Whole Foods store in the heart of the Englewood community. She expressed an unwavering commitment to ensuring access to quality food and resources for her constituency, whom she represented well. She will be missed. I extend my prayers, on behalf of my wife Carolyn and the citizens of the 1st Congressional District to her family, friends and constituents. May God grant them the peace to know that her spirit will live on forever.” ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) celebrates Black History Month by remembering the life and legacy of Dr. Margaret Taylor-Burroughs, founder of the DuSable Museum of African American History in Chicago. Rush’s video message highlights her accomplishments and continued influence throughout the city. Every February, we come together to celebrate Black History Month. This year, the Congressional Black Caucus celebrates the 50th anniversary of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. As a member of the Caucus, Rush support enactment of a renewed, revised and strengthened Voting Rights Act to once again ensure that every citizen has the right to vote. ###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on proposed Open Internet rules announced by Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler: “I want to commend FCC Chairman Wheeler on his draft order to adopt Rules for Protecting the Open Internet, which puts all broadband consumers first, where they belong. “I remain committed to a free, open, transparent and secure internet. Clear Rules are needed to ensure legal certainty, foster innovation, preserve consumer choice and freedom of expression. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on legislation that will guarantee open internet principles.” ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, in honor of Data Privacy Day, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) and Joe Barton (R-Texas) reintroduced the Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA) along with U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), David Cicilline (D-R.I.) and Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.). This bill, H.R. 580, is substantially similar to a bill that was first introduced in the 110th Congress and passed the full House in the 111th Congress but was not considered by the Senate. The DATA Act requires commercial entities that own or possess any personal information of consumers to implement effective information security policies and procedures to safeguard that information. Additional provisions in the law would require these entities to notify individual consumers, as well as the Federal Trade Commission, following consumer data breaches and when personal information is accessed or acquired by unauthorized persons. Personal information is defined as an individual’s first name or initial and last name, or address, or phone number in combination with (i) a social security number; (ii) driver’s license, passport, military ID number or similar government document number; or (iii) a financial account number, credit or debit card number and any required security or access code or password for an individual’s financial account. Recent, massive data breaches and cybercriminal attacks on firms and commercial networks and databases have enormously impacted consumers, consumer confidence and the economy. U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Chairman of the Energy & Commerce Committee, recently announced that there would be a series of hearings throughout the coming year to examine these numerous and increasing threats. The Energy & Commerce Committee — of which Rep. Rush is a senior member and Rep. Barton is Chairman Emeritus — is the House committee with primary jurisdiction over interstate commerce, consumer protection and trade matters. The Committee is also primarily responsible for authorizing and overseeing the activities of the Federal Trade Commission. Under the DATA Act, the Commission would be authorized to adopt regulations that spell out appropriate information, security policies and procedures and to take enforcement actions and assess civil penalties up to $5 million for violations of, either the law’s information security policy and procedure or its breach notification requirements, along with state attorneys general against violators under the law. In the spirit of Data Privacy Day, which is observed globally on January 28th, Reps. Rush and Barton will host a briefing on Capitol Hill on February 6, 2015. This briefing will be yet another avenue to shine a light on the realities of data breaches and the need to properly secure our networks and the personal information of others. ###
01.23.2015	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in support of Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner’s recent executive order to ensure equal opportunity is provided to all Illinois persons and businesses: “Chicago ranks second in the nation for the number of fast growing small businesses and the time is now to support and foster continued growth. In my congressional district, hundreds of small business owners thrive because of state funding. Governor Rauner’s executive order will increase the resources needed for small businesses, in particular, minority business enterprises and will help create and retain valuable jobs in communities for which these owners represent. “The governor’s commitment to veteran support is also critical to ensuring that Illinois’ economy grows and under-served communities are strengthened. I applaud the governor for taking this initial bold step toward improving business in Illinois and laying the foundation for an inclusive environment that should create an equal playing field.” ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after today’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology’s Net Neutrality hearing: “I strongly believe that internet access is a fundamental necessity in today’s world. “I intend to soon introduce bipartisan legislation that statutorily guarantees the open internet principles that so many agree on while maintaining the flexibility necessary in such a fast changing environment.” ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama laid out a strong path to help move our country forward and continue to strengthen the middle class. The president pointed to concrete results of the work he has done while in office. The creation of new jobs over the past five years has employed more than 11 million Americans. Lower gas prices and higher fuel standards have saved American families more than $750 at the pump and the country is now number one in oil, gas and wind power. “I appreciate the president’s policy on raising awareness of the increased number of uninsured Americans where over 10 million more families have access to the security of health coverage. Congress cannot put the security of families at risk by taking away their health insurance. “As a legislative body we must support the president in his efforts to increase the minimum wage, guarantee paid sick leave or paid maternity leave to Americans and address the reality of climate change. I continue to stand with the president in his continued efforts to grow our country’s global economic standing.” ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) heads into the 114th Congress offering a strong legislative agenda to address international affairs, consumer data security and online safety, small business funding and college sports. Rush intends to reintroduce four key legislative bills as a benchmark to the new session. Rush’s comprehensive legislative agenda consist of: The United States-Cuba Normalization Act Rush, who initially introduced the United States-Cuba Trade Normalization Act in 2009, has been a longtime advocate of improving our country’s economic relationship with Cuba. To achieve this aim, Rush’s legislation lifts the embargo, travel and parcel restrictions, normalizes trade relations and removes Cuba from the State Department’s State Sponsors of Terrorism list. Rush’s legislation also provides Congress a vehicle to take part in the important discussions surrounding President Obama’s announcement that the United States will restore diplomatic relations with Cuba. D.A.T.A. Rush re-introduced the Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA.), which is cosponsored by Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas). A substantially similar bill was first introduced in the 110th Congress, and passed the full House in the 111th Congress but was not moved upon by the Senate. DATA requires commercial entities that own or possess any personal information of consumers to implement effective information security policies and procedures to safeguard that information. Additional provisions in the law would require these entities to notify individual consumers, as well as the Federal Trade Commission, following consumer data breaches and when personal information is accessed or acquired by unauthorized persons. Personal information is defined as an individual’s first name or initial and last name, address or phone number in combination with (i) a social security number; (ii) driver’s license, passport, or military ID number or similar government document number; or (iii) a financial account number, or credit or debit card number, and any required security or access code or password for an individual’s financial account. Recent, massive data breaches and cybercriminal attacks on firms and commercial networks and databases have enormously impacted consumers, consumer confidence and the economy. Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), who chairs the Committee, recently announced that there would be a series of hearings throughout the coming year to examine these numerous and increasing threats. The House Energy & Commerce Committee — of which Rep. Rush is a senior member — is the House committee with primary jurisdiction over interstate commerce, consumer protection and trade matters. The Energy and Commerce Committee is also primarily responsible for authorizing and overseeing the activities of the Federal Trade Commission. Under DATA, the Commission would be authorized to adopt regulations that spell out appropriate information security policies and procedures and to take enforcement actions and assess civil penalties up to $5 million for violations of either the law’s information security policy and procedure or its breach notification requirements, along with state attorneys general against violators under the law. For several years, Rep. Rush has hosted a number of events that bring public and private sector experts and decision-makers together to discuss data privacy and security best practices and policy, legislative and technological prescriptions and solutions. On February 6, 2015, Rep. Rush will host a briefing on Capitol Hill to discuss some of these important topics. This event is designed in part to coincide with Data Privacy Day, which is observed globally on January 28th. Minority Small Business Enhancement Act Rep. Rush also reintroduced the Minority Small Business Enhancement Act of 2015. This bill seeks to amend the Small Business Act in a number of ways to increase opportunities, economic activity and financial participation for minority business and small business communities in general across the country. These changes include: (i) Raising the Personal Net Worth (PNW) limit to as much as $1.5 million to meet inflation and current economic norms for personal wealth; (ii) Eliminate the 9-year limit for businesses to participate in the program, a provision that will allow firms to complete for federal contract before losing assistance from the program; (iii) Increases the government-wide small business procurement contract goal from 23 percent to 25 percent; (iv) Increases from 5 percent to 10 percent the government-wide procurement goal for small, disadvantaged businesses and women-owned businesses; (v) Prohibits contracting officers from coding a minority business in any more than one other minority category; (vi) Authorizing the Director of the MBDA to provide loan guarantees to qualified minority businesses up to $450,000. Finally, this bill requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a contracting disparity study and to report its findings back to Congress. Presidential Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics An increasing number of debates and disagreements over the role of intercollegiate athletics and their relationship to academic integrity and financial stability for collegiate athletes prompted Rush to introduce legislation to examine these issues more fully. As part of his legislative rollout, Rush is introducing legislation to establish the Presidential Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. The Commission would examine national concerns and issues relating to how intercollegiate athletics programs are being conducted and recommend ways and actions to resolve identified problems. All of these bills will promote the growth and development of America and the American people. Rush continues to push for comprehensive legislation that positively impacts the lives the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and takes a bipartisan approach toward his work in Congress. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) was reelected today to the position of Ranking Democratic Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power. Following his re-election, Rush said: “First, to my constituents of Illinois’ 1st Congressional District it is an honor to serve you in the 114th Congress. “Second, I would like to thank my Democratic colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee for reelecting me to once again serve as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Energy and Power.” A strong supporter of Rep. Frank Pallone’s (D-NJ) bid for Ranking Democratic Member of the Full Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rush added, “I am honored to once again hold this position and I look forward to continuing to work with Ranking Member Pallone, Chairman Fred Upton (R.-Mich.) and the rest of my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to produce legislation that will benefit our great country.” First elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1992, Rush is serving his 12th term in the House and his 3rd term as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted against repealing the 30 hours a week threshold and replacing it with a 40 hour per week requirement. H.R. 30, the “Save American Workers Act of 2015”, would modify the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) definition of a full-time employee, from 30 hours a week to an increase of 40 hours a week. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that it would increase the country’s deficit by over $53 billion over 10 years. “House leadership is doing a disservice to the American worker,” said Rush. “Repealing the hours of the work week will cost 1 million Americans their employer-sponsored coverage and increase the number of uninsured by up to 500,000. As a legislative body we cannot afford to abandon our constituency and leave thousands struggling to afford healthcare.” Since the ACA became law, 10.8 million new jobs were created in the private sector leading to a decline in part-time workers from 19.7 percent of all workers in March 2010 to 18.2 percent today. Under the ACA’s employer responsibility provisions, employees who work at least 30 hours per week are defined as full-time and are counted towards the 50-employee threshold for requiring businesses to offer affordable health coverage. Use of a 30 hour threshold in the ACA was designed to minimize the ability of employers to slightly shift hours or engage in other gamesmanship to reduce hours or insurance obligations. By replacing the 30 hour threshold with a 40 hour threshold, employers would become greatly incentivized to “game” the law, putting five times as many workers at risk of having hours cut to avoid employer responsibility requirements. This new “part-time” employee model would completely undermine the intent of the employer responsibility provisions, and, according to the CBO and Joint Committee on Taxation, it would cause as many as 1 million Americans to lose access to employer provided health coverage and up to 500,000 to become uninsured. ###
12.17.2014	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement pursuant to the announcement that the United States will resume normalized diplomatic relations with the Republic of Cuba: “I applaud President Obama for his decision to begin the process of restoring full diplomatic relations with Cuba. This process has been a long time coming and I look forward to its successful completion. “Since my most recent official visit to Cuba in April 2009, I have seen the vibrancy of the Cuban people and, by lifting this embargo, the United States will be in a better position to ensure their human rights are protected. “Beginning in the 112th Congress, I have introduced legislation to normalize our relations with Cuba. As we prepare to convene the 114th Congress I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues to ensure that whatever legislative changes are necessary can be accomplished. “I would also like to note the significance of the State Department review of Cuba’s designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. It has long been my belief that this designation should be removed and I applaud the President for helping bring this to fruition. “Ensuring the maintenance of human rights in Cuba, as in the rest of the world, is of the utmost importance to me and, as I said before, the normalization of relations between the United States and Cuba will not only simplify the maintenance of these standards on a bilateral basis but will allow us to work with our international partners to expand them. “Once again, I congratulate President Obama and the American and Cuban peoples on the blossoming of a new, stronger, relationship.” ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) voted “NO” tonight on H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015. Rush expressed the following concerns regarding the FY15 Appropriations and Continuing Resolution: The bill funds the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), informally known as food stamps, at $81.8 billion, which is $332.4 million less than fiscal year 2014. The bill funds the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC), the largest discretionary program in the bill, at $6.62 billion, which is $92.8 million less than fiscal year 2014. While the Administration seeks to point out that the reduced SNAP and WIC funding is the result of less people receiving assistance because they are now unemployed and therefore no longer eligible for assistance, Rush is not satisfied that the savings resulting from less enrollees could not have been reallocated in total or in part to sufficiently cover the significantly higher costs of food in FY15 for eligible enrollees. The bill allows trustees of certain multiemployer pension plans to cut the benefits of retirees. Specifically, the legislation permits deep pension cuts to retirees in certain financially-troubled multiemployer plans. While retirees who are age 80 or over, or are receiving a disability pension, are not subject to benefit cuts, retirees ages 75–79 are subject to smaller cuts than retirees under age 75. Additionally, retirees who are harmed cannot challenge the trustees’ actions in court, even if those actions are arbitrary and capricious, or contrary to the interests of plan participants and there is no provision for automatic restoration of lost benefits if a plan’s funding status improves. The bill also includes a provision to repeal important taxpayer protections against reckless bank activity enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. The fiscal year 2015 omnibus appropriations bill totals $1.014 trillion in discretionary spending. The bill funds the U.S. government through September 30, 2015. In addition, it includes: $5.4 billion of emergency funding to prepare for and respond to the Ebola outbreak, $73.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations and $6.5 billion of disaster aid. ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement regarding the death of Illinois Comptroller, The Honorable Judy Baar Topinka: “Today is a sad day for Illinois and all those who had the privilege to know Judy. From her service in the General Assembly, her role as Illinois’ first female Treasurer and ultimately her service as Illinois Comptroller, Judy was a fierce and dedicated public servant who always put the interests of Illinois and Illinoisans before her own. “This loss is personal for me and my family as well. We were proud to call Judy a friend and, in my wife Carolyn’s case, boss. “My thoughts and prayers are with Judy’s son, Joe, daughter-in-law Christina, granddaughter Alexandra and all of her family, friends and devoted staff.” ###
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement after the House Democratic Caucus elected U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.) to serve as the Ranking Member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee in the 114th Congress: “I would like to congratulate Frank on a well-fought campaign and well-earned victory. Frank’s history of leadership and experience on the Committee will benefit not only the Democratic Caucus but all who serve in the House of Representatives. “Frank’s election proves that seniority should be and remains prime. Seniority is not a beauty contest; seniority is not a bounty contest; seniority is seniority and that’s as it should be. Today’s election is also an important first step in our long march to take back the House. “We have much to do in the next Congress and, as the second most senior Democrat, I look forward to working with Ranking Member Pallone and all of my colleagues to accomplish our goals.” ###
11.14.2014	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of former Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne: “In 1979 Mayor Byrne became the first woman elected mayor of Chicago, receiving 82 percent of the city’s vote, making Chicago the largest city in the United States to elect a female chief executive. Yet, long before the votes were tallied, the mayor had proved her wherewithal. “Mayor Byrne was a woman of vision. She redeveloped Navy Pier making it one of the world’s most visited destinations. She leaves behind a great legacy for which many can pattern themselves after. On behalf of my wife, Carolyn, and the citizens of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I extend my heartfelt condolences to her family and all the people of Chicago who mourn her passing.” ###
11.12.2014	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), Ranking Member, House Subcommittee on Energy and Power, released the following statement about the U.S.-China Joint Announcement on Climate Change: “Together, the U.S. and China are taking definite steps to substantially reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and to promote our collaboration on developing more forms of clean energy and expanding on some of those commitments through our enhanced support for the U.S.-China Clean Energy Research Center. “I applaud President Obama for his leadership in bringing our country to the table to strike a first-ever accord with China on greenhouse gas emissions. It is nothing short of a being a vital insurance policy that will go a long way towards ensuring that our children and grandchildren will live on a planet that is far less polluted and damaged and whose environments are more habitable. “The science is settled: climate change is real. It negatively impacts American and Chinese lives, their health and their livelihoods. It also ravages our economies, our neighbors’ health and their economies and affects the scale and scope of trade we can conduct with other trading partners. “In the U.S., we have been harmed and scarred terribly by destructive flooding on our coasts, relentless wildfires in the West and costly drought- and flood-related crop losses in the Plains and Midwest. “Whether or not you believe in data, reports and statistics that claim climate change is real, and whether or not you believe that climate change is man-made, there is a statistic that cannot be denied: Collectively, the US and China today emit more than one-third of the globe’s greenhouse emissions. “We have an obligation to future generations to take action on climate change. The opportunity window for doing so will not remain open much longer. And, if we wait much longer to deal with the negative effects of pollution, the more expensive and painful it will be when we have fewer available alternatives and options.” ###
11.11.2014	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day: “Today, we pay tribute to all the servicemen and women who have worn the uniform of the United States Armed Services and put their lives on the line to defend our country’s freedom. On this Veterans Day, I honor these men and women for their service, sacrifice and commitment — both in wartime and in peacetime — to defend the United States, its allies and the enduring cause of peace and justice throughout the world. “As we continue to welcome home the brave men and women who serve our nation across the globe, let us reflect on their work and help them transition back to civilian life by ensuring that they have access to the care they need to heal the physical and psychological wounds of war and create the jobs that will help them secure their livelihood. “We owe our nation’s veterans and those who continue to serve in our Armed Forces not only our gratitude but the fulfillment of our promise to take care of them and their families.” ###
10.25.2014	MARKHAM, Ill. — U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.) delivered the following statement today at the grand opening of Phase I of the I-294/I-57 Interchange: “I want to thank Governor Quinn, the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority and the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) for their outstanding leadership in moving this long sought after I-294/I-57 interchange Phase I project to completion. “The I-294/I-57 Interchange will increase economic development, create and sustain jobs and enhance mobility and access throughout the Chicago Southland. It will provide substantial and long-lasting benefits to this region and our local communities by reducing travel time, saving an estimated 25 travel hours per year for drivers using the new interchange and by reducing fuel consumption, saving drivers $4 million annually in fuel. “The I-294/I-57 Interchange which is expected to serve more than 76,000 vehicles per day and provide direct freight access to the Chicago Southland is a jobs creator. Over 100 workers are employed on the I-294/I-57 Interchange job site each day, and Phase I of the project has created and sustained over 3,000 total jobs. “In addition to the Tollway and IDOT’s work on the Interchange, IDOT is also reconstructing two miles of 147th Street, a $24 million project that includes over $10 million in federal TIGER Grant funds that I was pleased to support. “So while the full interchange is not expected to be completed until 2024, the completion of Phase I will deliver 75 percent of the overall project’s benefits to the traveling public now and for that we are grateful for the leadership of this Governor, who works tirelessly throughout the state on behalf of all Illinois residents.” ###
10.09.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) signed onto an amicus brief to the Supreme Court for the case, Young v. United Parcel Service. The brief, signed in September, explains Congress’s desire to ensure fair and equal treatment of pregnant workers through the passage of the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA). Rush’s support of the amicus brief may forward the Court’s understanding of the issues in this case. The Young case concentrates on whether the PDA requires companies to accommodate women like Ms. Young. In 1976, the Supreme Court held in General Electric Co. v. Gilbert, 429 U.S. 125 (1976) that discrimination on the basis of pregnancy was not sex discrimination and that General Electric’s disability policy, which provided employees with benefits for a broad range of sicknesses and accidents, but excluded disabilities arising from pregnancy, did not violate Title VII’s prohibition of sex discrimination in employment. The Court reasoned that pregnancy was not “comparable in all other respects” to the covered conditions and that excluding pregnancy did not indicate animus against women. Congress acted to reject this analysis by passing the PDA in 1978. In response, Congress that same year passed the PDA. The PDA prohibits employers from discriminating “because of” pregnancy and holds that pregnant women must not be treated differently from other employees who are “similar in their ability, or inability, to work.” The amicus brief in Young is Congress’s response to the case of Peggy Young. Ms. Young was working part-time as the driver of a delivery truck for the United Parcel Service (UPS) in 2006 when she became pregnant. Ms. Young’s caregiver advised her to lift no more than 20 pounds during her pregnancy although the current requirement of Ms. Young’s responsibility included lifting 70 pound boxes. Following her caregiver’s instructions, Ms. Young requested a few months of a lightened load. Other UPS employees were eligible for such an accommodation, she reasoned, so she wasn’t asking for anything out of the ordinary. Workers who were injured on the job, who were disabled under the terms of the Americans with Disabilities Act, or who lost their driving credentials were all eligible (under the collective bargaining agreement) for “light duty” assignments. The company’s occupational health manager rejected Ms. Young’s request. Since pregnancy did not fall into any of the three categories of workers eligible for alternate assignments, UPS would not switch Ms. Young to light duty assignments. Ms. Young was dismissed with unpaid leave. UPS defends its accommodation policy as “pregnancy neutral.” It excludes women carrying a fetus as it excludes employees injured off-site or requesting a new assignment for some other reason. No “animus” toward pregnant women, UPS contends, motivates the policy. Rush believes that when pregnant women who have medical needs for accommodation are forced off the job their families can suffer a devastating loss of income at the very moment their financial needs are increasing. He said, “It is unconscionable to treat expecting mothers so unfairly during their moment of greatest need, and that is why I signed this brief; to reaffirm the promise Congress made to our pregnant workers across the country.” ###
10.08.2014	CHICAGO — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) along with the 17 other members of the Illinois delegation sent a letter to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) urging it to redefine its criteria for “underserved areas”. The CFPB ruling is especially important because it would expand mortgage access to more borrowers as lenders consider consumers’ ability to repay home loans under the CFPB’s “Ability to Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards”. The current definition of “underserved areas” by the CFPB only considers the number of competitors in a county. In the letter, Rush requests that the CFPB expand its current definition to encompass existing definitions of economically challenged areas, such as those in the state of Illinois. The letter also requested that, in its definition, the CFPB include counties with high poverty rates (which are defined as qualified, distressed, or highly distressed census tracts for purposes of the Community Reinvestment Act and distressed and underserved non-metropolitan middle-income geographies for Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council purposes.). Redefining what constitutes an “underserve area” in accordance with what Rush has recommended, the CFPB intends to further its study of the existing definition of “underserved areas” as Rush and other members of the Illinois delegation continue to encourage changes by the bureau that will protect homebuyers. To read the letter, view the attached document. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) issued the following statement after voting in support of H. J. Res. 124, the Continuing Appropriations Resolution: “Today, I voted in support of the Continuing Resolution to maintain government operations. My vote, however, should not be seen as approval of the Republican leadership’s failure to adequately fund programs that are critical not only to the citizens of my district but to millions of Americans across the country. Programs like TANF (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) are vital. We should not be cutting it and other programs that serve as the very fabric of the social safety net. “Today’s vote, instead, was about keeping the United States government operating. We all remember last year’s shutdown of the federal government and it is not something that anyone wishes to repeat. “Additionally, this bill contained an important provision for businesses across the United States: the extension of the Export-Import Bank. Through this extension, American businesses, large and small, will continue to have the opportunity to compete globally. “Lastly, I must clarify that my vote today was not meant as a show of support to arm opposition groups in the Middle East. As I said before, it was a vote to maintain federal government operations. Too many times we have seen the United States arm opposition groups that later down the road use those very weapons to attack us. We must end this cycle.” H. J. Res. 124 passed with a final tally of 319 YEAS and 108 NAYS. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush’s (IL-01) bill, H.R. 4526, was the subject of a hearing held today by the Energy and Power Subcommittee. The bill, titled the “21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative Act of 2014”, establishes a comprehensive program to improve the education and training of workers for energy-related jobs, with an emphasis on increasing the number of skilled minorities and women trained to work in such jobs. Since assuming the position of Ranking Member of the Energy and Power subcommittee, one of Rush’s top priorities has been to increase opportunities for minorities within all sectors of the energy industry. Rush introduced H.R. 4526 to provide a pathway to employment for minorities and other historically underrepresented communities in the energy sector. Cosponsored by Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (KY-01), and nine other Members, the bill is a bipartisan effort to create a comprehensive strategy for initiating collaboration between the Departments of Energy, Education, and Labor, as well as industry, schools, community colleges, universities, labor unions, workforce development organizations, and other stakeholders in order to engage, inform, train, and recruit minorities for the energy jobs of the present and future. “While there is still much work to do to turn potential into reality, I am very pleased to see that we have some of the top minds in the country testifying before us today, representing the federal government, business, the energy sector, and nonprofits,” said Rush. “The fact of the matter is that it is in the best interests of constituents, of industry, and of the wider economy to engage women and the minority community because as the two recent American Petroleum Institute reports that Mr. [Jack] Gerard [API President and CEO] references in his testimony tell us, over half of the workforce within the oil and gas industries, specifically, will retire or leave over the next 5–10 years and they will need these communities to help replace those workers.” Recently there have not been many issues that Members on both sides of the aisle have been able to agree on, but Rush expressed hope and expectation that job creation is an issue Congress can find common ground on, particularly in terms of increasing the participation of minorities, women, and other historically underrepresented groups. Rush also applauded Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz for his outstanding leadership in developing the Minorities in Energy Initiative, following both public and private conversations held between the two. ###
06.26.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement about a recent report released from social media giant Facebook: “I applaud Facebook’s decision to release demographic data about its US workforce. These numbers show clearly that women and minorities are significantly underrepresented in its employee ranks – a fact that Facebook candidly acknowledges. (Facebook statement and numbers report: https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2014/06/building-a-more-diverse-facebook/) “The publication of diversity employment data does not put Facebook and its peers in the most flattering light. But, importantly, Facebook recognizes that it has “a lot more” work to do to recruit, retain, and promote greater numbers of women and minorities, and that diverse teams enrich the workplace and associated work environments. “These first steps may appear to be baby steps forward. But they can turn into full strides towards diversity, provided that Facebook and other companies that have made similar disclosures address these deficiencies earnestly, over a non-protracted timeframe and across their enterprises. “I stand ready to work with and on behalf of those information and communications technology companies who make the diversification of their workforces a strategic and an enduring priority in years to come.” ###
06.03.2014	U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) is convening a meeting of the city’s leadership to discuss the urgent issue of gun violence in Chicago’s Police Beat 624, the most violent beat in the city. Last week’s murder of Dr. Betty Howard, a school teacher hit by a stray bullet while in her office, underscores the serious circumstances that persist in this police beat and in other communities throughout Chicago. Rush’s Chicago office is located in this beat and one block west of the corner where Dr. Howard was killed. Rush will be joined by business and media executives, law enforcement, clergy, city government and community leaders and other elected officials. It is his expressed desire to turn Beat 624 around from the most violent to one of the safest beats in Chicago. This Beat, (bordered by 75th Street - North, 80th Street – South, King Drive – West, and Metra railroad tracks – East) includes the communities of Chatham, and parts of Grand Crossing and Avalon Park. The meeting will take place at 9:00 a.m. in Congressman Rush’s Chicago District Office located at 700 E. 79th Street. Media availability will begin immediately following the meeting at 10:10 a.m. on the corner of 79th Street and Evans (southeast corner) in front of the office where Dr. Howard was shot and killed. ###
05.29.2014	U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement about a recent report released from internet giant Google: “In furtherance of the prosperity of our overall economy for all individuals, regardless of their race, ethnicity, or gender, I highly commend Google for its decision to provide statistical data that breaks out the percentages of minorities and women currently employed in its US and worldwide work forces. “The numbers that Google reports strongly indicates that there are major employment disparities and deficits in the digital and broadband data sectors of the US and the greater global economies. (Google statement and numbers report: https://www.google.com/diversity/at-google.html) “Google’s announcement, indeed, is a big step forward for diversity and economic inclusion, which its peers and competitors in the Internet and wireless spaces should quickly emulate. Disclosures such as this followed by actionable plans to recruit, hire and retain significantly more women and minorities will appeal greatly to prospective and existing hires. It will also endear those companies that decide on reporting to more of their consumers, giving them competitive and first-mover advantages which could be priceless in ensuring their success for years to come. “I stand ready to work with and on behalf of those information and communications technology companies who make the diversification of their workforces a strategic and an enduring priority in years to come.” ###
05.28.2014	U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement after learning of the passing of poet Dr. Maya Angelou: “Dr. Angelou was an astounding figure on the global stage who took her place daringly encouraging all those around her. She will be missed dearly. I hope her light will continue to shine through those she touched. “She overcame struggle only to triumph and inspire generations to dream and live and hope. My prayers are with her family and loved ones who must know that her spirit will live on forever.” ###
05.28.2014	U.S. Representatives Joe Barton (R-TX) and Bobby Rush (D-IL), members of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus and original sponsors of H.R. 4400 – the Data Accountability and Trust Act, sent a letter to eBay Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe inquiring about the company’s recent security breach. eBay disclosed that the breach had occurred in a news release on May 21st and advised users to change their passwords due to a cyber attack that “compromised a database containing encrypted passwords and other non-financial data.” eBay further disclosed that the attackers compromised “a small number of [its] employee log-in credentials” in order to gain access to eBay users’ personal information. Rush and Barton applauded the company for alerting users so that they could take some precautions, but the two Congressmen still have concerns about data security policies and practices at eBay. Below are some of the questions posed in the letter: As it relates to accessing eBay on a mobile device, has the company noticed a breach in location information or any other mobile identifier from its users? If not, why not? If so, please explain. Please explain whether or not eBay intends to perform an assessment of current data security protocols. If not, why not? If so, what additional security protections is the company considering to further safeguard personal information? Members have asked for a reply from eBay by June 25th. The complete letter can be found by clicking here. ###
05.27.2014	U.S. Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX) and Bobby Rush (D-IL) welcomed the findings for the Federal Trade Commission’s report entitled, “Data Brokers: A Call for Transparency and Accountability.” The report calls for several reforms addressed in H.R. 4400, the Date Accountability Act, which was introduced by Reps. Rush and Barton earlier this year. The bill is designed to improve protections for consumers, while forcing data brokers to be more transparent. “The data broker industry is one that is largely unregulated and currently collects large sums of data on consumers. I have been skeptical of this industry for quite some time and have introduced legislation along with my friend Rep. Bobby Rush that places some guidelines on data brokers to give consumers access and control,” said Rep. Barton. “As the co-Chair of the Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, I will continue to champion the individual right to privacy, and I plan to continue to put pressure on the data broker industry to do the same.” “Consumers should and do want to know more about which companies have access to their personal information, what those entities may know about them, and how they go about sharing and acquiring so much personal data about people. That is why the FTC’s new Data Brokers report should be essential reading for consumers. As part of the report, the FTC recommends that Congress pass legislation to increase data broker accountability and transparency,” said Rep. Rush. He added, “My bill, the Data Accountability and Transparency Act, which I proudly introduced earlier this year with Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), would do precisely these things. It would require data brokers to do more to verify the accuracy of data they collect about individuals. As for accountability, it would authorize the FTC to conduct or order independent audits of data broker security policies following security breaches of data broker systems. I am confident that Congress will move forward to address these matters through legislation, and HR 4400 is an ideal vehicle for achieving those ends.” Highlights of the Data Accountability and Transparency Act include: Requiring entities that hold personal information to establish and maintain appropriate security policies to prevent unauthorized acquisition of that data; Requiring companies to notify consumers in the event of a breach of personally identifiable information that results in a reasonable risk of identity theft or fraud; Imposing special requirements on information brokers, those that compile and sell consumer data to third parties, including assuring accuracy of their information, allowing consumer access to their records and the ability to correct inaccurate information; and Superseding State data breach and notification laws but permitting enforcement by State Attorneys General with an aggregate cap on damages. The entire bill can be found here. # # #
05.21.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) cosponsored a sleep apnea screening bill introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. Michael C. Burgess (TX-26). The bi-partisan legislation endorsed by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, would add screening for obstructive sleep apnea to the initial preventive physical examination covered under the Medicare program. “Obstructive sleep apnea is a chronic disease that is common among older adults and damaging to their health,” said AASM President Dr. M. Safwan Badr. “The American Academy of Sleep Medicine commends Rep. Burgess and Rep. Rush for introducing this important legislation and urges the U.S. Congress to pass the bill, which will enhance the patient-centered health care provided to seniors when they enter the Medicare program.” H.R. 4695 proposes that an appropriate screening questionnaire be used during the introductory “Welcome to Medicare” preventive visit to identify new Medicare beneficiaries who have a high risk for obstructive sleep apnea. The bill, which has been referred to the Subcommittee on Health for review, would apply to initial preventive physical examinations performed on or after Jan. 1, 2016. “The proportion of older adults in the U.S. is increasing rapidly,” said Rush. “Screening for sleep apnea is a practical way to promote the health and well-being of our growing population of seniors.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one of every five Americans will be aged 65 or older by 2030. It is anticipated that by 2050 there will be 89 million older adults in the U.S., more than double the number in 2010. The AASM initiated the legislation as part of its Seniors Sleep campaign to increase preventive sleep care for individuals entering the Medicare program. After securing the support of Reps. Burgess and Rush, the AASM collaborated with their offices to develop the draft language for the bill. Now the AASM is working to secure additional co-sponsors of the bill and a legislative sponsor in the Senate. At least 12-18 million Americans have untreated obstructive sleep apnea, which increases their risk for costly medical conditions such as hypertension, heart disease, Type 2 diabetes and stroke. Untreated sleep apnea also fragments sleep and can cause excessive daytime sleepiness and cognitive impairment, doubling the risk of falls in older adults and causing 100,000 vehicular crashes a year. “A sleep apnea screening questionnaire is a simple, validated and cost-effective tool that can be used to identify Medicare patients who are at risk for obstructive sleep apnea,” said Burgess, a doctor who founded and currently serves as co-chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “Diagnosing and treating sleep apnea is essential for effective chronic disease management among seniors.” The most effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea is positive airway pressure therapy. In addition to restoring healthy sleep and improving daytime alertness, PAP therapy for sleep apnea is estimated to reduce the risk of motor vehicle collisions by 52 percent, the expected number of heart attacks by 49 percent, and the risk of stroke by 31 percent. Research also shows that PAP therapy is a cost-effective treatment that can reduce overall health care utilization. Adopted in 2003, the Welcome to Medicare benefit allows new Medicare beneficiaries to receive an initial preventive physical examination and screening services without a copayment. Other services included in this benefit are cardiovascular screening blood tests, diabetes screening tests and an electrocardiogram. The Medicare program provides health insurance for people 65 years of age and older, certain disabled people and people with kidney failure. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, 51.78 million beneficiaries were enrolled in Medicare as of July 1, 2012. More information about the AASM Seniors Sleep campaign is available at www.aasmnet.org/seniorssleep.aspx. ###
05.01.2014	Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) joined his colleagues in addressing the wasteful spending of taxpayers’ money who pick up the tab for professional sports owners fined by their leagues. Rush cosponsored the Stop Penalizing Taxpayers for Sports Owners Act of 2014. Many Americans are not aware that when a professional sports owner is fined by his or her respective league, for violating the rules of that league, taxpayers get penalized at the same time. “This is a major concern,” said Rush. “As in the case with NBA owner of the Los Angeles Clippers, Donald Sterling, whose racist rant resulted in his banishment from the National Basketball Association for life in addition to a record $2.5 million fine, Sterling could deduct it as a business expense. That doesn’t send the right message to taxpayers and it eliminates all incentives for owners to behave properly.” When a professional sports team owner is fined by his or her league, the IRS code currently allows the owner to write off the fine as a business expense. That means owners are receiving a tax break for egregious behavior, and that tax break is a burden shouldered by all Americans. This tax loophole is unacceptable. The Stop Penalizing Taxpayers for Sports Owners Act of 2014 legislation will close that loophole, ensuring that sports owners are the only people who bear fiscal accountability for their behavior. ###
04.30.2014	Today, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), Ranking Democrat on Energy and Power Subcommittee, Ed Whitfield (KY-01), Chairman of the House Energy and Power Subcommittee and Bill Johnson (OH-06) introduced groundbreaking legislation that will create a pathway to employment for minorities and other historically underrepresented communities in the energy sector. It’s no secret that the field of energy offers Americans tremendous new opportunities, and is changing the playing field internationally — positioning the U.S. as the world leader in advanced energy technologies, energy production, and clean and renewable energy breakthroughs. The challenge is making sure that all Americans are aware of the opportunities in energy development, and ensuring that all Americans have the opportunity to benefit from these exciting advances. “In both public hearings before my subcommittee and in private meetings with some of the most influential leaders within the energy industry, I have been relentlessly stressing the importance of engaging minorities in all facets of the energy sector, including in the oil, gas, nuclear, renewable, and pipeline sectors,” said Rush. Some of the committee’s Members top priorities have been to focus on increasing minority engagement in the lucrative energy sector as there is an undeniable lack of participation on the part of minorities who are engaged in the energy industry, in regards to employment, entrepreneurial and ownership opportunities. The 21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative Act of 2014 requires the Secretary of Energy in collaboration with the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Labor to establish and carry out a comprehensive program to improve education and training for energy-related jobs for the purpose of increasing the number of skilled minorities and women trained to work in energy-related jobs. “Our booming energy sector has been one of the greatest American success stories in the last decade, and remains a bright spot in our economy as it continues to fuel job creation. To continue this success we need a 21st century energy workforce that is equipped to meet the challenges and opportunities of our new energy landscape. This legislation will help prepare workers from across the country with diverse backgrounds to enter into an exciting and rewarding career in American energy,” said Whitfield Additionally, this important legislation seeks to encourage and foster collaboration, mentorships, and partnerships between organizations that currently provide effective job training programs in the energy field. The 21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative Act of 2014 is a prime example of how by working together for the betterment of our country, the federal government can effectively secure the United States future in energy. “I’m excited to join Representatives Rush and Whitfield in introducing this important bipartisan legislation. The unique opportunities associated with the oil & gas development taking place underneath our feet across Eastern and Southeastern Ohio, and throughout the country, offer tremendous opportunities for the American people,” Johnson said. “We must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate in the jobs associated with our energy development and production, and this legislation does that by creating a framework for effective job training programs. I’m hopeful the House will take up this common-sense legislation as soon as possible.” ###
04.23.2014	CHICAGO— U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) will host military academy day offering high school students interested in serving in the armed forces an opportunity to learn about the application and nomination process for the nation’s five service academies. Students will learn from the following academy representative and their cadets: U.S. Military Academy (Army) in West Point, NY. U.S. Naval Academy (Navy/Marine Corps) in Annapolis, MD. U.S. Air Force Academy (Air Force) in Colorado Springs, CO. U.S. Coast Guard Academy (Coast Guard) in New London, CT. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. The event will take place on Friday, April 25, 2014 at the Carter G. Woodson Regional Library, 9525 South Halsted Street in Chicago from 9:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Continental breakfast will be served. To register for the event contact the Office of Congressman Bobby L. Rush at congressmanrushdistrictevents@mail.house.gov or call 773-224-6500. ###
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON— Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) co-signed a letter that asks President Obama to renew enforcement of a ban on the importation of military-style firearms. Rush along with several of his House colleagues believes the ban would serve dual purposes of improving public safety in the U.S. and reducing drug-related violence and firearms-trafficking in Mexico. The ban was first implemented in 1989 after a gunman used an imported AK-47 to kill five children and wound 30 others at a Cleveland Elementary School in Stockton, California. Several previous administrations used their authority under the 1968 Gun Control Act to prohibit the importation of firearms and ammunition unless they are “general recognized as particularly suitable for or readily adaptable to sporting purposes: (18 USC § 925 (d) (3)). Rush is now asking the Executive branch to once again pick up the mantle and stop the importation of military-style rifles as it in alignment with the administrations agenda. According to the letter, imported military-style rifles and AK-style pistols are top weapons of choice for international gun smugglers, and an increasing percentage of those firearms are imported into the U.S. Specific requests made by Rush in the joint letter to the President are: Prohibition on importation of all non-sporting, semiautomatic rifles, regardless of caliber, that can accept or be readily converted to accept any large-capacity ammunition magazine of more than 10 rounds. Prohibition on importation of non-sporting semiautomatic rifles with fixed magazines with a capacity of more than 10 rounds. Prohibition on importation of the frame or receiver of any prohibited rifle whether or not the frame or receiver is incorporated into a fully manufactured firearm. To read the letter in entirety and for a complete listing of the enumerated requests, view the attached document. ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON— With the recent series of data breaches at nationwide retailers that exposed payment card and personal information and data belonging to tens of millions of consumers, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) and Joe Barton (TX-06) re-introduced H.R. 4400, the Data Accountability and Trust Act of 2014 (D.A.T.A. Act). The Federal Government mandates data security in only a few sectors: the financial sector, the health sector, and operators of children’s websites. There is not currently a comprehensive Federal law imposing data security, disclosure, notification, or storage requirements on commercial providers that sets forth data security. Accordingly, there are no uniform set of breach notification requirements for businesses to follow in the states where they conduct business or make actual use of or store personal consumer data. “The D.A.T.A. Act embodies a bipartisan solution to a bipartisan problem. That’s why I’m very pleased that my colleague, Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) is introducing the bill with me today,” said Rush. “Without question, data breaches negatively affect consumers, causing them to incur substantial and unavoidable economic harms. For many states attorney general, identity theft continues to generate the most and second-most number of consumer complaints, annually. Further, data breaches and requirements are raising compliance, information security, organizational and reputational costs for businesses.” “So far this year, over 4.5 million Americans have had their personal information exposed due to a data breach. This number is alarming, and I believe that it is imperative Congress address the issue of both data security and data breach notification,” Barton stated. “Today, I am happy to introduce the D.A.T.A. Act of 2014 alongside my good friend Congressman Bobby Rush. This bill closely mirrors legislation both Mr. Rush and myself introduced in the 111th Congress that had bipartisan support and passed the House. It is my hope that this bill will quickly move through the committee process and finally reach the desk of the President.” The principal federal agency safeguarding consumer data is the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which has authority to bring administrative enforcement actions against data breach perpetrators and for-profit entities that are found to have misled consumers about the sufficiency and adequacy of their data security policies and practices. The D.A.T.A. Act would require commercial entities that own or possess personal information to implement information security policies and procedures in compliance with FTC regulations. It would also require these entities to provide notification to individual consumers and to the FTC following a breach in which consumers’ personal information is accessed or acquired by an unauthorized person. Taking into account law enforcement and national security exceptions, the D.A.T.A. Act requires commercial entities to notify consumers within 60 days from the discovery of a security breach, or as promptly as possible thereafter. According to testimony submitted by FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez before the House Energy & Commerce Committee in February 2014, “[t]he FTC is committed to protecting consumer privacy and promoting data security in the private sector and has settled 50 law enforcement actions against businesses that we alleged failed to protect consumers’ personal information appropriately. Using its deception authority, the Commission has settled more than 30 matters challenging companies’ express and implied claims that they provide reasonable security for consumers’ personal data when, the Commission charged, the companies failed to employ available, cost-effective security measures to minimize or reduce data risks.” Rep. Rush observed that “It is sensible and reasonable for consumers to expect that companies, which market and sell them goods and services; and the firms that facilitate those transactions, such as payment processors and information brokers will safeguard their personal information.” Rush added that “Under the D.A.T.A. Act, businesses and consumers would have a common understanding as to when and how consumers are to be notified and what are the available remedies to them in the event that their personal information is acquired or accessed without their consent. Rather than our having 47 different state data breach notification laws, which is the status quo, consumers and businesses would fare better under uniform federal standards.” ###
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON— Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), Ranking Democratic member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power participated in the Department of Energy (DOE) Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Budget hearing. In Rush’s opening statement, he expressed appreciation for the DOE’s commitment to establishing the Minorities in Energy Initiative, but pointed to concerns regarding the amount of resources the agency is actually investing in the initiative, as evidenced by the DOE’s budget proposal. Rush called for a separate hearing on increasing minority participation in the energy sector “in order to make up for the shortfall of workers who will be retiring and exiting the workforce, leaving behind a shortage of talented and skilled workers in their wake,” Rush stated. Rush deemed it necessary to increase minority participation and involvement within all sectors of the energy industry. When questioning Secretary Moniz about the priorities highlighted in DOE’s FY15 budget request, Rush asked the following questions: (1) What is the amount allocated to the Office of Economic Impact and Diversity, which is the agency primarily responsible for enacting the Minorities in Energy Initiative, both in terms of dollars and in terms of percentage?; (2) How many publicly funded national research labs are there and are any of these labs managed or operated by minority firms?; (3) Is there confidence from the DOE’s Office of Economic Impact and Diversity, and any other programs the department operates to assist minorities, has the resources, including budget, staff, and authority, to effectively engage minority communities and help them access the enormous opportunities available within all of the different aspects of the energy sector? In addition, to these inquiries Rush also indicated that he would submit a longer list of questions for the record and that he expected the agency to get back to him with answers in a prompt manner. To view excerpts of the hearing view the following link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/u7rfh914slkjnyo/EP%20DOE%20Budget%204.3.14.wmv ###
04.03.2014	CHICAGO— U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) announced today that, he will host “Understanding the Grantseeking Process,” an educational seminar for nonprofit organizations, chambers of commerce, and associations. The seminar will be held on Friday, April 11, 2014 from 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at Chicago State University. Located at 9501 S. Martin Luther King Drive, University Library, 4th Floor. Participants at this educational seminar will hear best practices of successful grant writers, and fundraising experts will show how to identify potential resources. A panel of grantmakers from the public, and private sectors will discuss their agency giving programs, new initiatives and share insights into how their agency finds and funds successful programs. Pre-registration is required. Continental breakfast will be provided. For more information, please call (708) 385-9550 and to RSVP email us at congressmanrushdistrictevents@mail.house.gov ###
04.02.2014	CHICAGO— U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) participates in the Congressional Institute sponsored nationwide high school visual art competition each spring. The competition recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. The First Congressional District recruits student artists each year to showcase their talents. The competition is open to high school students only. Exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Attached are both the competition guidelines and application. Also, visit https://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/ for more details about the Congressional Art Competition. ###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON— U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) joined House Committee on Energy and Commerce Ranking Democrat Henry Waxman and seven of his colleagues in introducing H.R. 4364, the Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2014. This legislation improves motor vehicle safety by requiring manufacturers to include additional information to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)’s Early Warning Reporting system, requires NHTSA to provide public notice of all inspection and investigation activities by the agency, and improves access to NHTSA vehicle safety information, among other things. In his comments on the introduction of this bill Rush said: “I am proud to support this bill and its continued efforts to improve motor vehicle safety in our nation. Since my days as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection I have worked with my colleagues to reform NHTSA and make sure the American public is well-informed. Unfortunately, the legislation we passed out of committee in 2010 did not become law. This legislation, therefore, is the important next step in this effort and I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this bill. Additionally, I call on Chairman Upton and Chairman Terry to schedule hearings on this bill so we can ensure it reaches the floor in a timely manner.” The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing yesterday on the amount of time it took for General Motors to issue a recall after discovering faulty ignition switches in vehicles that took the lives of at least 13 individuals. In light of this, Rush added, “Today’s hearing demonstrates the continued need for the legislation we have introduced today. Consumers must have access to lifesaving information when making purchases for them and their families and manufacturers, and the agencies that regulate them, must move in a timely manner to ensure that everyone is working together to protect the public.” ###
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON— U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush released the following statement after Illinois Governor Pat Quinn’s 2014 budget address: “Governor Quinn’s emphasis on education is key to maintaining an employable workforce years from now. Quinn’s plan to request an additional $6 billion investment in the classroom over the next five years is forward thinking and offers a pathway to success for our children. “Quinn is also making choices to put the state of Illinois on track to financial soundness. In the last five years, Quinn established a record of reform from overhauling our state’s massive pension fund to paying down a backlog of bills that has been reduced by $5 billion from $9.9 billion in November 2010 to $4.9 billion at the end of FY’14. “Quinn laid out his spending priorities for the 2015 fiscal year that will focus on the state’s critical areas.” ###
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON— U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush is leading an effort to obtain federal funding for trauma centers and emergency network preparedness in rural and urban communities throughout the nation. Funding for these Public Health Service Act programs were authorized over five years ago to be used by states to coordinate between trauma centers, collect important patient data, and improve medical transport and response times. To date, no funds have been appropriated for these critical programs, but with each year that has passed the situation have gotten worse. Rush is urging his congressional colleagues to support an appropriation of $224 million a year over the next five years in the upcoming FY2015 appropriations bill. Earlier this year, the United States received an overall grade of D+ in trauma preparedness from the American College of Emergency Physicians, with 24 states receiving a D or an F (ACEMP Study Here). As the leading cause of death for folks under the age of 44, traumatic accidents are taking a huge toll across the country killing more people than AIDS and stroke combined. In addition, 33,000 people die each year from motor vehicle accidents-related to trauma, with the risk of dying in a rural crash being 15 times higher than in urban accidents (Indiana Dept. of Health White Paper). Unfortunately, over 45 million Americans reside in Trauma Deserts and lack access to major trauma centers within the “golden hour” post injury when chances of survival are greatest (American Journal of Public Health – Trauma Deserts). “Considering these staggering numbers, it’s about time that we get serious about this problem and fund these programs at their authorized level of $224 million under the Public Health Service Act,” stated Rush. This is a critical issue for the America people, because of the loved ones lost and the financial burden is overwhelming. According to the National Trauma Institute, The economic cost of 50 million injuries in the year 2000 was $406 billion which includes $80 billion in medical care costs, and $326 billion in productivity losses (NTI). ###
10.01.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO —Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, who remains on Official Leave from Congress to care for his wife Carolyn, released the following statement after a forced government shutdown: Speaker Boehner and the Republicans in the House of Representatives moved to shut down the government causing devastating impact to the nation and my First Congressional District constituents. Waging high-stakes legislative show-downs with Democrats in order to placate extreme factions within their party has become the new norm and a sign of severe dysfunction in the Republican-led House. House Republicans had several opportunities to pass a clean continuing resolution that keeps the government running until mid-November, but instead, they decided they would rather try to make an ideological point by demanding the sabotage of the Affordable Care Act. Because Republicans are dead-set on killing the President's health care law, should up to 52,000 federal employees in Illinois be furloughed? And should thousands of small businesses in Illinois lose access to critical credit and lending sources from government sponsors, such as the Small Business Administration? Instead of voting to secure the paychecks, benefits, and economic stability for millions of deserving and eligible heads of households, taxpayers, and federal and civilian workers, Republicans have reduced these innocent bystanders into hostages in a reckless game of political chicken. As the Congressional Budget Office has confirmed, delaying the Act’s implementation for one year will increase health insurance premiums and decrease patient coverages. A House majority passed the Affordable Care Act on October 8, 2009, a Senate supermajority passed the bill on December 24, 2009, and the President signed it into law on March 23, 2010. The US Supreme Court upheld the law’s constitutionality on June 28, 2012. Past shutdowns have disrupted the economy while one will too. The time is out for ideological battles while real Americans are hurting. The Affordable Care Act was signed into law and despite Republican push back it is the law of the land. ###
06.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement today on the Supreme Court's ruling overturning Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act: "Today, the Court issued its decision in Shelby County v. Holder, the constitutional challenge to the preclearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act. I disagree with the Court’s decision to overturn Section 4, which essentially undoes the critical protections of Section 5. “From the very birth of our country voting has been a cherished right for which many have fought. In 1965, the United States embarked upon the path of voting equality when Congress passed and President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act. “In the decades since, the Voting Rights Act has protected ballot-access for the disenfranchised. In recognition of the gains achieved by the Voting Rights Act and in an effort to expand safeguards for eligible voters Congress, has renewed this law four times. Most recently, in 2006, Congress reauthorized the Voting Rights Act on a strongly bipartisan basis, under a Republican president, making the determination that Sections 4 and 5 were not only still relevant, but essential to protecting all Americans’ right to vote. Under the Supreme Court’s ruling today, that is no longer possible. “The Supreme Court ruled that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act is unconstitutional and can no longer be used as federal policy. Although Section 5 survives, it will have no actual effect unless and until Congress enacts a new statute to determine what jurisdictions should be covered. It is incumbent upon Congress to look carefully at our voting system and devise a coverage formula for preclearance that will protect every American’s equal access to the ballot and ensure that minorities are not subjected to discriminatory practices by state or local authorities, and ensure that the United States Department of Justice has all the tools it needs to prevent unjust voting practices from being implemented. In light of today’s ruling, I call upon Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, and all of my colleagues to come together and act swiftly. We cannot and must not allow our country to return to the days of disenfranchisement of its citizens. That is the only way we can ensure that a government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.” ###
06.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Power applauds President Obama for addressing climate change as an issue that needs immediate and national attention. “President Obama in his speech today laid out a framework for a secure energy future for America. The President intends to devise a plan that embraces an all-of-the-above energy policy that reduces the country’s dependence on foreign energy sources, achieves energy savings that will benefit consumers, and allows for more renewable energy sources, as well as increased domestic production. By setting higher emissions standards for new and existing power plants and investing in clean energy development, the President’s plan will maintain clean air and water while encouraging the growth of jobs in advanced manufacturing. Rush’s work on the issue of climate change is long documented during Energy and Commerce hearings. During last month’s hearing on the Energy Consumers Relief Act 2013 Rush offered two amendments directing the Committee to hear from scientists on the role of climate change in causing drought, heat waves, wildfires, reduced crop yields, and impaired electricity generation. Rush also supported a second amendment by Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (6/NJ) to require the Committee to hear from scientists on the threats of climate change to coastal areas in the United States, including how climate change can contribute to storms like Superstorm Sandy. “There can be no denying the impact of climate change on our environment, our economy, and our national security. We all understand that just because one might not like what the facts or the science is telling us, does not mean that we can simply ignore them or wish them away; last year’s records in temperature, drought, wildfires, and flooding proved that. Rush has also sent 24 letters to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Upton and Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Whitfield since May 2011, requesting hearings focused on the science of climate change, and to date has received only one response, which asserted that “the Committee frequently addressed climate change issues” in past Congresses. ###
06.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement on the dedication of the Frederick Douglass Statue in Emancipation Hall of the United States Capitol Visitor Center: “Today, Congress recognized a man who epitomizes the American dream. Frederick Douglass escaped from slavery and became the first African American U.S. Marshall for the District of Columbia. He was a leader of the abolitionist movement, and strong voice for justice and a supporter of education. “Frederick Douglass not only spoke out against injustices in America, but he also fought for an end to all forms of inequality. His contributions as a great American reflected his dedication to affecting change at all levels of government and as leader from the District of Columbia. “It is an honor to join my colleagues as we honor Frederick Douglass’s legacy in the United States Capitol. I also thank Congresswoman Norton for her efforts that made this recognition possible.” ###
06.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Last week, U. S. Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest Moniz met with Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Power to discuss DOE budget priorities. The meeting took place prior to Secretary Moniz’s presentation at the Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing on President Obama’s FY2014 energy budget. The two met to discuss DOE budget priorities, a series of upcoming Energy and Commerce Committee hearings, job creation and other pressing energy concerns. Rush and Secretary Moniz agreed upon several key energy initiatives that include an all-of-the-above energy agenda that encapsulates Rush’s five core energy principles: 1) Safe, reliable and affordable energy for all Americans; 2) Focus on STEM education and training; 3) Jobs and economic opportunities for all segments of the population; 4) Policies to address climate change; 5) North American energy independence over the next few decades. Rush believes Moniz is heading one of the most important agencies in the nation, as the field of energy will hold the keys to unlocking America’s creativity and innovative spirit, while also taking the country’s economy to another level and providing an abundance of rewarding jobs and careers. In addition to oversight of the DOE, Ranking Member Rush’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power also has oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency. ###
06.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush honored local small businesses as part of the 50th Annual National Small Business Week. “Today, we celebrate American small businesses, particularly those in Illinois, which are the engine that drive our economy. That is why I set spurring small businesses to create good-paying jobs and grow the economy as key initiative in the 113th Congress” said Rush. To provide certainty to small businesses and expand good-paying jobs, Rush called for action on a budget that spurs new businesses by replacing sequester cuts with a balanced agreement that strengthens the middle class and responsibly reduces the deficit. “Moving forward on a budget agreement is a critical step toward strengthening our economy and bolstering small businesses. And through our American Jobs Act and our Make It In America agenda, the work I do in Congress fights to provide millions of small businesses with new incentives to expand and hire, make it more cost-effective for small businesses to invest in plants and equipment, and expanding new tools and strategies for small to medium-sized businesses to transition into clean energy and high-tech manufacturing,” Rush stated. In April Rush hosted a small business educational seminar for business owners and individuals interested in learning more about business to learn about the how-to’s in business. Rush also host weekly one-on-one business counseling for entrepreneurs to find start-up funding, set business goals, handle legal issues and obtain business certification. “During this 50th Small Business Week, I thank the small businesses across the nation, which form the backbone of our communities – opening new storefronts, training American workers, manufacturing and selling goods in our neighborhoods,” said Rush. “I also renew my commitment to expanding economic opportunity so that everyone with an idea for a new enterprise or business venture has the ability and resources to translate their dreams into reality.” ###
06.14.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Ed Whitfield to request a hearing on a new report from the International Energy Agency (IEA). The report finds that the world is not on track to meet the goal of limiting global average temperature rise to below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, the level necessary to prevent devastating impacts of climate change. In fact, under current policies more than 9 degrees Fahrenheit of warming may occur in the coming decades. In the letter the members write, “According to the IEA, the report’s recommended policies can be implemented now at no net cost to society. But if we continue to delay, avoiding catastrophic climate change will instead cost the global economy trillions of dollars. And not acting at all will lead to destructive climate impacts and unimaginable costs to society and our economy.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. June 14, 2013 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Whitfield: On Monday, the International Energy Agency (IEA) released a report concluding that the world is “not on track” to meet the goal of limiting global average temperature rise to below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius) above preindustrial levels.[1] We are writing to request that the Committee hold a hearing on this important new report. Climate scientists believe that if global average temperatures increase beyond 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, society will face devastating impacts. Among the expected impacts are flooding of coastal cities; increased risks to our food supply; unprecedented heat waves and exacerbated water scarcity in many regions; increased frequency of high-intensity tropical cyclones; and irreversible loss of biodiversity, including coral reef systems.[2] Recognizing this danger, the United States and 192 other countries joined together in 2010 to establish a goal of limiting global temperature rise to below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit.[3] The IEA report concludes that the world is failing to meet this goal. Globally, greenhouse gas emissions, which are driving climate change, are “increasing rapidly.”[4] Last year, these emissions reached a new historic high, and just last month carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million for the first time in several hundred millennia.[5] Unless the world takes significant new actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions now, the report projects that global temperatures could rise by more than 9 degrees Fahrenheit (5.3 degrees Celsius), which would portend catastrophic climate impacts.[6] These are ominous warnings, but there is some good news. The report finds that it is not too late to keep temperatures below the most dangerous levels if the world acts now to implement cost-effective policies to reduce emissions.[7] But time is running out. Delaying action will expose society to significant, costly, unpredictable, and possibly irreversible climate change. Addressing climate change will require actions over the long-term, but the report highlights four policies that could be implemented now and through 2020 at no net economic cost. These cost-effective policies would reduce emissions sufficiently to “keep the door open” to achieving the 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit goal over the long-term.[8] Each of these policies focuses on energy use, which accounts for two-thirds of global greenhouse gas emissions – mostly from the use of fossil fuels – and is thus “at the heart” of the climate challenge.[9] The policies rely on existing technologies that can be widely deployed in the short-term. And in addition to their climate benefits, the policies help reduce local air pollution and increase energy security.[10] First, the report recommends that countries adopt specific energy efficiency measures, including more efficient heating and cooling systems in residential and commercial buildings; more efficient appliances and lighting in residential and commercial buildings; more efficient industrial pumps, compressors, and other electric motor systems; and higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles. These energy efficiency measures account for half of the emissions reductions that the report proposes through the year 2020.[11] Second, the report proposes that countries limit the construction and use of inefficient, subcritical coal-fired power plants and switch instead to cleaner and more efficient plants.[12] Third, the report recommends that countries reduce emissions of methane – a potent greenhouse gas – from upstream oil and gas production by installing readily available technologies in the short-term and pursuing additional longer-term reduction strategies.[13] Fourth, the report proposes that countries accelerate the phase-out of fossil fuel subsidies, which exacerbate climate change by encouraging consumption of carbon pollution emitting energy.[14] While energy policies are needed to address climate change, it is also important to recognize, as the report points out, that the energy sector itself will not be immune from the impacts of climate change. Rising temperatures from unchecked warming threaten the security and reliability of our energy systems with extreme weather events, changes to heating and cooling demands, and sea level rise.[15] Accordingly, energy policy reforms are needed not just to address climate change broadly but also to protect our energy systems themselves. We have written on numerous previous occasions requesting that the Committee hold hearings on climate change. But no hearings have been held or scheduled in response to our last 26 hearing requests. The Committee’s failure to listen to the scientific experts is irresponsible and dangerous. According to the IEA, the report’s recommended policies can be implemented now at no net cost to society. But if we continue to delay, avoiding catastrophic climate change will instead cost the global economy trillions of dollars.[16] And not acting at all will lead to destructive climate impacts and unimaginable costs to society and our economy. We urge you to schedule a series of hearings in the near future to examine the critically important issues raised by the IEA report and other recent studies so that we can responsibly confront this serious threat. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1] International Energy Agency (IEA), Redrawing the Energy-Climate Map: World Energy Outlook Special Report (Jun. 2013) (online at https://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2013/energyclimatemap/RedrawingEnergyClimateMap.pdf), at 9. [2] See, e.g., World Bank, Turn Down the Heat: Why a 4°C Warmer World Must be Avoided, (Nov. 2012) (online at https://climatechange.worldbank.org/sites/default/files/Turn_Down_the_heat_Why_a_4_degree_centrigrade_warmer_world_must_be_avoided.pdf). [3] The Cancun Agreements: Outcome of the work of the Ad Hoc Working Group on Long-term Cooperative Action under the Convention, United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Decision 1/CP.16 (online at https://unfccc.int/resource/docs/2010/cop16/eng/07a01.pdf). [4] IEA (2013), supra note 1. [5] Id. [6] Id. [7] Id. [8] Id. [9] Id. [10] Id. at 43. [11] Id. at 53-57. [12] Id. at 58-62 [13] Id. at 62-66. [14] Id. at 66-70. [15] Id. at 11. [16] Id.
06.14.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced that the state of Illinois will receive $160,191 million for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Fiscal Year 2013. In April, Congressman Rush signed onto a letter urging the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education, and Related Agencies to prioritize funding for the nation’s lowest-income households. The Subcommittee allocated $187.3 million to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for states to help offset costs for low-income households to meet rising energy costs. The Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) assists qualified families with their home and renter’s energy needs such as heating in the winter, cooling their homes in the summer, and insulating their homes to make them more energy efficient. By doing so, families are able to pay for heating and electricity, make weather-related improvements to their homes and prevent service interruptions. LIHEAP is the main federal program that helps low-income households, veterans, and seniors with their energy bills, providing vital and temporary assistance during both the cold winter and hot summer months. The latest funding amount supplements LIHEAP block grants made available to states, territories, tribes and the District of Columbia since October 1, which total $3.065 billion for Fiscal Year 2013. Individuals interested in applying for energy assistance should view the following link for more details: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ocs/resource/liheap-brochures. ###
06.14.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush expressed support for the 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. The 2014 appropriations legislation will fund Department of Veterans Affairs operations, such as veterans’ claims processing, the integration of veterans’ electronic health records and system with the Department of Defense, veterans medical facilities and services, housing and mandatory funding for disability compensation, post-9-11 GI bill education and vocational rehabilitation and employment training services. The appropriations legislation provides funding for hiring 94 additional VA claims processors to address and eliminate serious disability claims processing backlogs affecting veterans in Illinois and a number of other states. “It is with great joy that I support a plan that will address the problem that we’re trying to make right,” said Rush. “Men and women who serve our country in uniform return home and are unable to get a resolution to a legitimate claim for a disability or for medical care that they need is unacceptable.” “I will continue my commitment to caring for the men and women who serve our country and support any plan that takes actions in addressing a speedy process for backlogs and the funding for veterans’ medical services, housing, and mental health services.” The bill also includes the provision to require that a proportional amount of prosthetic research funding focus specifically on female veterans’ prosthetic needs. In addition to Rush’s support for the current Appropriations Act, he has been a long time advocate of veterans affairs. In the 111th Congress, Rush urged Members of the House to support H.Res. 6496 – legislation that requires regular reports to Congress on the management of military burial grounds and specifically the Arlington National Cemetery (ANC). Rush’s bill has helped the Cemetery achieve and maintain the highest standards of service and accountability. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in H.R. 2216, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2014: Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $147.6 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned for their dedicated service to the country. VA Medical Services –The bill funds advanced VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately over 6.5 million patients to be treated in Fiscal Year 2014. These funds will be used for mental health care services; suicide prevention activities; traumatic brain injury treatment; the treatment, housing, and job training of homeless veterans; and in rural health initiatives. DOD-VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $252 million in funding to establish a single, integrated Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. The legislation requires that a unified system be certified by the Secretary of Department of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and confirmed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), before the majority of funding for the program is released. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – In order to help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015, the bill provides $155 million for the paperless claims process system and $136 million for the digital scanning of health records. Additionally, funding has been provided for the hiring of 94 additional VA claims processors. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as veteran disability compensation programs for 4.2 million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 764,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 175,000 veterans. Oversight – Funds appropriated within the bill are to be designated for the development of an electronic health record system that meets the requirements of being single, joint, common, and integrated. Rigorous reporting requirements would be put into place to track the performance of each regional office on claim processing. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $55.6 billion in advance Fiscal Year 2015 funding for the VA – the same level provided in the President’s Budget request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Military Construction – The bill provides $9.9 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $670 million below the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. These programs include large and small construction and rehabilitation projects on military bases within the U.S. and overseas. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.5 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for Fiscal Year 2014. This is $106 million below the enacted fiscal year 2013 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing. The funding will ensure quality housing is continued for 1,231,044 military families whose loved ones are serving the country. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $927 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. These facilities support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense Education Facilities –The bill includes $798 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at 17 Department of Defense Education Activities (DODEA) facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. This funding will help address health, safety, and efficiency problems at these facilities for military children and families. NATO – The bill funds the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (NSIP) at $199.7 million which is $40 million below the fiscal year 2014 budget request and $54.2 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $676.3 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 25 States. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation continues to provide for the much needed improvements the Arlington National Cemetery. ###
05.30.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Ed Whitfield to request a hearing on the potential economic impacts of climate change in the developed and developing worlds. Last week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report showing that continued delay in reducing carbon pollution could result in catastrophic global economic impacts, consistent with recent reports released by the United Nations Development Programme and the World Economic Forum. The members write, “During Committee proceedings, we often hear Republican members talk about the risks to the economy of regulating greenhouse gases. These members need to understand that the risks of inaction are far greater.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. May 29, 2013 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Whitfield: Last week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report on the policy implications of enacting a carbon tax. As part of that analysis, CBO described how climate change could trigger potentially catastrophic economic impacts across the globe. We urge you to schedule a hearing about these potentially catastrophic impacts and how climate change could affect economic growth in both the developed and developing world. The catastrophic impacts envisioned by CBO are enormous. According to CBO, the Dynamic Integrated Climate Economy (DICE) model – which was used by the Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of Carbon – defines a “catastrophic loss” as “a 25% decline in global output.”[1] By comparison, GDP fell just 4% from the beginning to end of the Great Recession (2007-2009).[2] The catastrophic economic impacts become more likely the longer we wait to act. CBO concluded that delaying action to reduce carbon pollution “would increase the expected damage from climate change by increasing the risk of very costly, potentially even catastrophic, outcomes.”[3] According to CBO, the risk of costly damage is “higher as the extent of warming increases and as the pace of warming picks up; thus, failing to limit emissions soon increases that risk.”[4] CBO’s conclusions about the costly impacts of climate change are consistent with recent reports released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Economic Forum. In March, UNDP released its 2013 Human Development Report, identifying more than 40 countries in the developing world that have made significant gains in human development due in large part to investment in education, health care, and social programs.[5] Despite this progress, chronic pollution and vulnerability to natural disasters continue to plague many of these countries. Climate change promises to make these problems even worse. UNDP concluded that failing to address climate change “has the potential to halt or even reverse human development progress in the world’s poorest countries and communities.”[6] Absent coordinated global action to address environmental threats, the number of people living in extreme poverty could increase by three billion by 2050.[7] The World Economic Forum released its annual global risks report in January 2013, which was based on a survey of 1,000 experts from industry, government, academia, and nonprofits world about their views on the global risks most likely to manifest over the next 10 years and those that could have the greatest impact. The report found that rising greenhouse gas emissions poses one of the biggest global risks in the coming decade and that failure to adapt to climate change could have a tremendous socioeconomic impact across the globe.[8] During Committee proceedings, we often hear Republican members talk about the risks to the economy of regulating greenhouse gases. These members need to understand that the risks of inaction are far greater. We hope you will examine the studies we mention in this letter and schedule a hearing on the impacts of climate inaction during the next work period. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1] Congressional Budget Office, Effects of a Carbon Tax on the Economy and the Environment at 16 (May 2013). [2] Congressional Research Service, The 2007-2009 Recession: Similarities to and Differences from the Past at 8 (Oct. 6, 2010). [3] Congressional Budget Office, Effects of a Carbon Tax on the Economy and the Environment at 19 (May 2013). [4] Id. [5] United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), The Rise of the South: Human Progress in a Diverse World (Mar. 14, 2013). [6] UNDP, “Rise of South” transforming global power balance, says 2013 Human Development Report (Mar. 14, 2013) (press release). [7] Id. [8] World Economic Forum, Global Risks 2013 (Jan. 8, 2013).
05.30.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush voted against the GOP Making College More Expensive Act, which claims to help students but would actually make college more expensive for students and families, forcing them into loans with skyrocketing interest rates that fluctuate year by year, further compounding the student debt crisis. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would charge millions of students and families $3.7 billion over the next decade in additional interest payments relative to current law. According to the Congressional Research Service, the Republican bill is worse for students and families than allowing interest rates to double – with even higher interest payments by students and families. Under the Republican bill, students who borrow the maximum amount of subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans over five years would pay nearly $2,000 more in interest costs than if interest rates doubled. “Our students and families deserve better than this Republican bill that makes many students pay higher interest payments than they would if Congress did nothing and interest rates doubled,” said Rush. “Total student debt currently stands at $1.1 trillion, greater than credit card debt. Instead of reducing student debt, this bill increases student debt.” The Republican bill is a bait and switch scheme. Under the GOP bill, interest rates on loans would be reset every year. So, the interest rate on a loan taken out next year by a freshman may start off low, but she doesn’t get to keep that interest rate for the life of the loan. It will change every year just like predatory adjustable rate mortgages. The House Republican Leadership refused to allow the House to consider the Democratic bill to block student loan rates from doubling on July 1. The Democratic bill continues to allow college students to benefit from historically low interest rates by freezing the current low 3.4 percent rate on subsidized Stafford loans for the next two years. Democrats support long-term solutions to student loan interest rates as part of the upcoming Higher Education Act’s reauthorization, when policymakers can tackle student loans as part of comprehensive efforts to address student debt, college costs and affordability, and the financial aid system as a whole. ###
05.17.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush will keynote tomorrow’s 7th Annual Chicago African Summit and Resource Fair. The Summit will focus on critical issues affecting the African immigrant and refugee community both locally and nationally. WHEN: Saturday, May 18, 2013, 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. WHERE: 700 East Oakwood Blvd., Chicago, IL 60653, (NEIU Jacob Carruther's Center for Inner City Studies) WHY: The Resource Fair component of the Summit will provide access to free immigration resources, mock citizenship interviews, education resources, legal resources, health screenings, mortgage/foreclosure assistance, and employment resources. Participants will also have the opportunity to enroll into County Care, a regional Medicaid program for adults ages 19-64 without health insurance. A special highlight of the Summit will be the official release of United African Organization’s “Chicago African Cabdrivers Health Study” and Summit attendees will be among the first to receive executive summary of the report. ### WHERE: 700 East Oakwood Blvd., Chicago, IL 60653, (NEIU Jacob Carruther's Center for Inner City Studies) WHY: The Resource Fair component of the Summit will provide access to free immigration resources, mock citizenship interviews, education resources, legal resources, health screenings, mortgage/foreclosure assistance, and employment resources. Participants will also have the opportunity to enroll into County Care, a regional Medicaid program for adults ages 19-64 without health insurance. A special highlight of the Summit will be the official release of United African Organization’s “Chicago African Cabdrivers Health Study” and Summit attendees will be among the first to receive executive summary of the report. ###
05.13.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush participated in the Thomas Place Orland Park ribbon cutting ceremony to mark the grand opening of a $22‐million, 80‐unit, affordable, senior and veteran’s housing community. The groundbreaking ceremony for Thomas Place Orland Park took place in June 2012 and almost a year later the housing community celebrated the completion and opening of the first project to offer affordable housing units for seniors and veterans in Orland Park, Illinois. Thomas Place is located at 15415 South Harlem Avenue. “Me and my wife moved here from Florida and it was beautiful there, but for this to be a seniors community; it’s just phenomenal the way things are set up and the way things are handled here,” said James Harris, resident of Thomas Place Orland Park. “In our eyesight, we couldn’t have asked for anything better.” Thomas Place Orland Park is 100 percent leased, and residents are moving in as part of a phased move‐in schedule. The 80‐unit community includes 72 affordable units and eight market rate apartments. As part of state funding requirements, 10 percent of the units must be set aside as State Referral Network (SRN) units to aid people in transition. Recently, Ryan Companies US, Inc extended the number of SRN units available from eight to 13. Partners of the ribbon cutting were Ryan Companies US, Inc. and Providence Life Services. ###
05.10.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush announces Sylvia Edoigiawerie, a junior at St. Ignatius College Prep, as the winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for Illinois’ First District. Edoigiawerie etched out the competition with a self-portrait entitled, Nigerian American, an oil painting that she states is a reflection of her unique heritage. “This artwork is dedicated to my Nigerian American heritage,” said Edoigiawerie. “My two distinct backgrounds, which are represented by the red, white and blue and the green and white hair have given me a unique personality and a unique view of the world. The mixed eye color represents my two perspectives.” The 2013 panel of judges were Debra Hand, artist and sculptor, Monica Haslip, founder of the Little Black Pearl Art & Design Center, Archie Listenbee, director of the Global Art Gallery, Diana Lynch, Gallery Coordinator at Governor State University’s Visual Arts Gallery, and John Tylk, member of the American Society of Portrait Artist. The categories used for judging the students artwork were originality, technical proficiency and expression. Visit https://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/ for more information about next year’s art competition. ###
05.09.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush voted NO on H.R. 1406 the Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013 because of its harmful impact to working class families. H.R. 1406 will give more flexibility to employers, not employees, take away workers right to overtime, force them to take time off and will result in excessive hours and less income. “What this bill really will do is not allow workers to get paid for hours that exceed 40 hours per week,” said Rush. “Workers compensation will instead go into a pot that will be controlled by their employer. An employer can refuse to allow a worker to take time off to deal with a family member or attend a parent-teacher conference. This is not real flexibility for workers. Employers get what amounts to an interest-free loan paid for by the workers’ wages since unused comp time will be paid back at the end of the year.” While the Republican measure puts workers’ decisions into the hands of their bosses, the Democratic Motion to Recommit, that Congressman Rush supported, returns personal and family decisions about comp time to employees in cases of: A medical appointment. Caring for a sick child. Counseling or rehabilitation for veterans who have suffered a combat injury. Unfortunately, House Republicans did not agree to this, leading to its ultimate failure. The Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013 is the way House Republicans want to say “Happy Mothers’ Day” to America’s families. But it’s the last gift we should give to our middle class, now or in the future. ###
05.09.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush reintroduced legislation to lift trade restrictions on Cuba. Improved U.S. relations with Cuba have been a longtime goal of Congressman Rush and this legislation follows in the footsteps of the United States-Cuba Trade Normalization Act that he initially introduced in 2009. Specifically, Rush’s current legislation lifts the embargo, travel and parcel restrictions, normalizes trade relations, and removes Cuba from the State Department’s State Sponsors of Terrorism list. The key component of Rush’s bill calls for the release of Alan Phillip Gross, a U.S. international development professional arrested in Cuba in December 2009, and makes implementation of this legislation contingent on the Cuba governments compliance. “Lifting the trade embargo with Cuba is long overdue,” said Rush. “Cuba has a rich history and is a close neighboring country that offers access to cultural growth and learning for many Americans. We have shut the door on our two nations coming together to work to build a strong alliance. Cuba is no longer a threat to the United States and the continuation of the embargo on trade between the two countries declared in 1962 is not fulfilling the purpose for which it was established. We are the only nation in the Western Hemisphere that still maintains an embargo and its removal is long overdue.” Rush’s bill asks for a major point of contention between the countries to come to end by asking for the release of Alan Phillip Gross. Gross was arrested while in Cuba working as a U.S. government subcontractor for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) as part of a program funded under the 1996 Helms-Burton Act. He was prosecuted in 2011 after being accused of crimes against the Cuban state for bringing satellite phones and computer equipment to members of Cuba’s Jewish community without the permit required under Cuban law. After being accused of working for American intelligence services in January 2010, he was ultimately convicted for “acts against the independence or the territorial integrity of the state" in March 2011, and is currently serving a 15-year prison sentence in Cuba. For more information on H.R. 1917 view the attached bill. ###
05.09.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced several cabinet nominations this week: “I would like to congratulate President Obama on this week’s nominations of Mayor Anthony Foxx to be the next Secretary of Transportation, fellow Chicagoan Penny Pritzker as Secretary of Commerce and my congressional colleague U. S. Representative Mel Watt as Director of Federal Housing Finance Agency. All of these nominees bring a wealth of talent and experience to their respective positions and will be invaluable in serving the President and our nation. As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I look forward to working with Secretary-designate Pritzker to expand and create U. S. business and improve our economy. Secretary-designate Foxx will continue to be a strong leader in improving our nation’s infrastructure and transportation system and I look to work with him to further the Chicago area’s CREATE rail program, mass transit projects and aviation improvements. I am also pleased that Director-designate Watt will take the helm of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the federal regulator created to provide oversight to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I have served in the Congress with Mr. Watt for over two decades and as a former real estate attorney and long time member of the House Financial Services Committee, I am confident that he will provide the necessary leadership to help address the nation’s housing problems, particularly relating to mortgage foreclosures. “I call on the U.S. Senate to move quickly to confirm all of these nominations.” ###
04.25.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Democratic member of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power questioned witnesses who testified before the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology about the Universal Service Fund’s Lifeline program, which helps make communications services available and affordable for low income Americans and those with limited means. All Americans pay to subsidize Lifeline services through recurring charges on their phone bills that carriers then contribute to the Universal Service Fund. In 2012, the Universal fund distributed $8.7 billion dollars across four programs, including Lifeline which accounted for $2.2 billion. The Lifeline program nearly tripled in size from $800 million per year in 2009 to $2.2 billion per year in 2012. The Federal Communications Commission adopted commendable reforms to the program in January 2012, which appears to have slowed some of Lifeline's growth but have also reduced levels of waste, fraud and abuse that has been reported about the program. The two concerns prompting today’s hearing are beliefs that growth in the fund may be unsustainable and that the fund creates opportunities for waste and fraud. Video of Congressman Rush remarks is available online here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrAcUURRpkM Full text of Congressman Rush opening remarks are available below: Good morning Chairman Walden, Ranking Member Eshoo, and esteemed colleagues of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. Today’s hearing is titled in the form of a question: “The Lifeline Fund: Money Well Spent?” Of course, it is well spent. In actuality, some liberties have been taken and there have been abuses within the program. But, attacks to cap the Lifeline program, or to limit poor people’s access to broadband and wireless communications ignores another actuality: Americans are becoming poorer. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, between 2008 and 2011, the number of Americans living in poverty rose by about six and a half million. And, furthermore, a majority of Americans living in poverty have only a cell phone and no wired telephone. These poor Americans who are concentrated in inner cities and rural communities rely heavily on the modest subsidy they currently receive through the Lifeline program. With the Lifeline service and support they receive, they are able to search for better work, to call the doctor for needed medical advice and medications, and to keep their families connected and intact. The FCC and the States have been implementing some very sensible reforms to cut fraud, waste, and abuse generated by the Lifeline Program. Last year, these reforms saved $213 million dollars and this year, these reforms are projected to save an additional $400 million dollars. If wireless service is completely removed from Lifeline eligibility, it would not only hurt low-income individuals in highly populated urban areas, but wireless users in low populated rural locations as well. If Universal Service Funds are completely eliminated from wireless, revenue that goes toward rural wireless services would be severely diminished. With all of these factors in consideration, my answer to the question whether the Lifeline Fund is money well spent is . . . yes. I believe that legislative history, recent FCC reforms, and the needs of millions of Americans justify the continuance of the Universal Service Fund’s Lifeline Program as it exists today, and I look forward to hearing the viewpoint of each witness who stands before this Subcommittee today. ###
04.24.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush along with Congresswomen Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Chair, Congressional Black Caucus and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chair, CBC Prison Telecom Reform Working Group, and Congressmen Hank Johnson (GA-04), and Bobby Scott (VA-03), CBC Prison Telecom Reform Working Group Members, and Ulandis Forte, Former Prisoner and Martha Wright, Grandmother of Ulandis Forte and Original Petitioner. Below are Congressman Rush’s remarks and a link to the video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xiPAl0YnkLo “I am Congressman Bobby L. Rush of Illinois First District. I am a member of the CBC Prison Telecom Reform Working group and a senior Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. The Energy and Commerce Committee has oversight authority over the Federal Communications Commission and general jurisdiction over interstate communication services, rates and practices. “When I learned about the federal class action Mrs. Wright brought against prison phone providers, and the petitions she filed later with the Federal Communications Commission (2003 and 2007) asking the agency to reduce rates for prison phone calls and services, I was inspired to draft legislation to do that very thing. “Of the 10,000 or so bills that lawmakers introduce each Congress, only 4 percent are enacted. That number is closer to 1 percent when you eliminate non-controversial bills that name post offices and designate commemorative holidays. In spite of these legislative odds, I have stayed the course by introducing the Family Telephone Connection Protection Act now for FOUR straight Congresses. My bill would do several things in relation to prison phone calling rates and services. Among other things, it would: Prescribe a maximum per-minute rate (paid to providers of inmate calling services) Prescribe a maximum service per-call or connection rate. Prohibit the payment of commissions by inmate calling service providers to administrators of correctional facilities. Require administrators to allow more than one service provider at a correctional facility to offer choice and generate lower calling rates. “Staying the course has been important. I was confident that we could crack the armor of exorbitant prison phone rates and commissions and kickbacks to states, wardens, and sheriffs by continuing to introduce legislation in each Congress from January 2007 until now; convincing the Energy and Commerce Committee to hold a legislative hearing on my legislation in the 110th Congress; sending repeated letters to the FCC to open a prison phone rates rulemaking; standing in solidarity with advocates and organizations at a November 12, 2012 FCC rally where nearly 37,000 petitions were submitted and speeches were made calling on the agency to reopen its rulemaking on the reasonableness of prison phone rates; co-hosting a screening on Capitol Hill in late November 2012 of the film, Middle of Nowhere. Joining the CBC Prison Telecom Reform Working Group in submitting reply comments to the FCC, this past Monday in its prison phone rates rulemaking proceeding. “Many groups and organizations should be thanked for weighing in heavily with the FCC on these issues. They have encouraged me and sustained me in this long, hard fight, more than they even know. “I can’t name them all, but I would like to thank CURE (Citizens United for Rehabilitation of Errants), Public Knowledge, the Center for Media Justice, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Prison Policy Initiative, Color Of Change, and the National Consumers League. ###
04.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush along with Mayor Jim Holland, Village of Frankfort U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and SCORE will host a business educational seminar next week. The seminar invites business owners and individuals interested in learning more about business to come learn about the how to’s in business. The details for the business seminar are as follows: WHEN: Monday, April 22, 2013 8:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. WHERE: The Frankfort Police Facility 20602 Lincoln-Way Lane Frankfort, Illinois 60423 WHY: The seminar will review the how to’s for creating a business plan, finding your niche, finding start-up funding, setting business goals, handling legal issues, obtaining business certification and what SBA offers to help small businesses grow. Due to limited seating pre-registration is required at 708-385-9550 or younus.suleman@mail.house.gov. ###
04.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressmen Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) and Danny Davis (D-IL07) will host a Congressional Forum on the closings of over 50 Chicago Public Schools on the City of Chicago’s South and West sides. The forum is a call for public discussion about the impact school closings will have on students, parents, teachers, and their communities. The details for the forum are as follows: WHEN: Saturday, April 20, 2013 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Quinn African Methodist Episcopal Church 2401 S Wabash Avenue Chicago, IL 60616 WHY: The Chicago Board of Education has put forth a plan to close 54 Chicago Public Schools at the start of the 2013 fall school year. Eighty percent of those schools are located in the First and Seventh Congressional Districts. Seventeen schools are slated to close in the 1st Congressional District while 26 in the 7th Congressional District displacing nearly 10,000 students on the South and West sides of the City. Individuals representing various aspects of the issue have been invited to speak to provide testimony and report findings on the impact of the school closings. There will be an opportunity for attendees to address the Congressmen with their concerns during an open mic period. ###
04.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush signed onto a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of the Congress that the Chained Consumer Price Index should not be used to calculate cost of living adjustments for Social Security benefits. Rush also sent a letter along with other congressional members to President Barack Obama stating his disapproval of placing Social Security benefits on the chopping block as potential budget cuts. “We cannot compromise the benefits to the most vulnerable in our society,” said Rush. “Social Security is a vital program that supports the disabled and seniors. Cuts to these programs will have a devastating impact to individuals who rely on Social Security benefits to live from day to day. It is our job as Members of Congress to protect the economic security to generations of Americans through benefits earned based on contributions made over a worker’s lifetime.” View the letter to the President here and the concurrent resolution here. ###
04.17.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush received the 2013 Good Jobs, Green Jobs Champion Award from the BlueGreen Alliance Foundation. The BlueGreen Alliance Foundation recognized Rush for his long time work in addressing energy efficiency, green jobs and championing a clean economy, while ensuring America continues to address climate change. “I commend the BlueGreen Alliance for being a powerful voice for building a cleaner, fairer and more competitive American economy,” said Rush. “As of Member of Congress, it is important to do all that I can to inform American’s that scientists are sounding the alarms and informing us that we are reaching a critical tipping point as it relates to this very important issue of climate control.” All Americans have benefited from Rush’s work raising awareness about a range of chemicals that consumers encounter in every day, and for being a tireless advocate for cleaner air and protecting public health. Rush has leveraged his position on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power to elevate the issue of climate change and draw national attention to how America can best deploy renewable energy. “We need more in Congress like Congressman Rush to lead the way in the fight to combat climate change,” said David Foster, Executive Director of the BlueGreen Alliance. “After all, climate change is real, it is accelerated by human actions, and if we fail to preempt its frightening costs, we will imperil our economic future.” The Green Jobs Champion Award is given once a year around the Good Jobs, Green Jobs National Conference, the nation’s premier gathering of labor, environmental and business leaders to share ideas and strategies about how to build a clean, efficient economy, address climate change, and create good jobs at the same time. ###
04.16.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, a member of the Safe Climate Caucus, spoke on the House floor to call on Congressional Republicans to face the fact that climate change is occurring, pointing to scientists’ work and extreme weather events as proof. Rep. Rush and Rep. Waxman have sent 24 letters to the Republican leaders of the Energy and Commerce Committee to request hearings on the science of climate change. “Just because some of my colleagues might not like what the science is telling us, it does not mean that they can continue to put their collective heads in the sand and simply ignore these facts or wish them away,” said Rush. The Safe Climate Caucus members have made a commitment to talk every day on the House Floor about the urgent need to address climate change. Video of the floor speech and text of the speech are available below: Floor Statement of Rep. Bobby L. Rush Safe Climate Caucus April 16, 2013 Mr. Speaker, Ranking Member Waxman and I have sent 24 letters to Chairman Upton of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Chairman Whitfield of the Energy and Power Committee since May 2011 requesting hearings on the science of climate change. Mr. Speaker, since Mr. Waxman and I are not able to get the majority on the Energy and Commerce Committee to act, I take it upon myself to come to the House floor to speak directly to the American people on why this issue is so important to them. Power to the people. Mr. Speaker, last year, 2012, marked the hottest year ever recorded in U.S. history. Fully two-thirds of our Nation experienced drought. Half of the Nation's grazing pastures and up to 30 percent of the Nation's corn crop was in poor condition, or in very poor condition, which impacted the price that the American people pay for their food, for ethanol, and for consumer goods for all of the American people. Mr. Speaker, just because some of my colleagues might not like what the science is telling us, it does not mean that they can continue to put their collective heads in the sand and simply ignore these facts or wish these facts away. Last year's record temperatures, serious droughts, pervasive wildfires, and widespread flooding prove that there is climate change occurring all around us on a regular basis continually. And Mr. Speaker, the majority ignores climate change, not at some of our peril, not at a portion of our peril, not at a minority of our peril, but all of our perils are being impacted because of the majority's refusal to simply have the scientists come before the committee of jurisdiction and tell this Congress, in no uncertain terms, what is really happening to the world's climate. Mr. Speaker, these very same scientists, these experts, these people who have spent and dedicated their lives to understanding climate and climate control and what is happening, these climatologists are waiting, they're willing, and they're eager to come before this Congress to share their information and their expertise with the Members of this Congress. The scientists are sounding the alarm and informing us that we are reaching a critical tipping point as it relates to this very important issue of climate control. Mr. Speaker, my prayers are for the people of Boston, my prayers are for the people in Boston, and my prayers are for the American people. All power to the people. ###
04.16.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush introduced legislation that asks Members of Congress to use the terms “undocumented” and “undocumented workers” in describing foreign nationals and immigrants, rather than use the term “illegals”. On Friday, Rush introduced H. Res. 155 in the House of Representatives expressing that the terms or phrase “undocumented immigrant, non citizen, or people here in violation of the Immigration laws” should be used instead of “illegal alien” when referring to persons who reside in the United States without proper documentation. “Adopting comprehensive immigration reform legislation is one of America’s most critically important national and strategic objectives,” said Rush. “The words and labels that America selects to describe and refer to non-citizens and to those not born in the U.S. are supremely important— by referring to immigrant individuals and groups in these offensive ways contravene the tenets of fair and objective policy and legislative analysis and decision making. References to non-U.S. citizens as “illegals” also tarnish our Nation’s iconic status as a land of freedom and opportunity for all.” The road to developing comprehensive immigration reform is paved through the language utilized to describe those seeking citizenship. H. Res. 155 is a step in the right direction to change how our nation moves forward in strengthening border security, cracking down on employers that hire undocumented workers, and working to streamline our immigration system so it is fairer for and helps grow the middle class. Framing difficult problems and issues in the context of immigration reform, and developing policies and resolutions to those issues requires that Members refrain from publicly expressing their own personal biases or prejudices.[1] Failing this, Congress will not accord these matters the respect and attention they deserve, nor will it be as likely that Congress can conclude the requisite consensus building that will be essential to passing meaningful immigration reform legislation out of Congress and onto the President for his signature. There are an estimated eleven million people residing in the United States without legal permission. Rush distinguishes that the acts of “undocumented” and “undocumented workers” may be illegal but they themselves are not illegal. ### [1] Even before the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act of 1997 – Division C, Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-208) was signed into law, Members of Congress used terms including “the illegals” and “illegal aliens”. Use of these terms has exacerbated rifts across America’s communities in all regions of the country and is counterproductive to enactment of comprehensive immigration legal reform.
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced his budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2014: “The President’s budget will pave the way for a clear fiscal road ahead by making investments in economic growth, fostering job creation and expanding the middle class.” “President Obama’s budget proposal is a balanced agreement that addresses the sequester, deficit spending and CPI benefits to make way for investments in infrastructure and making America a hub for manufacturing. This budget intends to put Americans back to work, takes a balanced approach to reducing the nation’s long-term deficit and protects the most vulnerable citizens. The President lays out a plan, that in this difficult fiscal climate, reduces spending, but asks the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. The House and Senate have passed their budget proposals; now Democrats and Republicans must come together to keep America moving forward.” ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — As we mark Equal Pay Day on April 9th, Congressman Bobby L. Rush reiterates that more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men—including enactment of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “According to a new report from the American Association of University Women, the women in Illinois’ First District still earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men (see below for AAUW’s Fact Sheet),” stated Rush. “And nationwide women earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men, despite the fact that the Equal Pay Act will mark its 50th anniversary in June.” “Equal pay is not simply a woman’s issue—it’s a family issue,” Rush added. “Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families—groceries, rent, child care, doctors’ visits.” Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act—the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This Act, a great victory for women, restores the right of women to challenge unfair pay in court—but virtually all House Republicans opposed this critical measure for women. “Although the Lilly Ledbetter Act has been enacted, we need to do more,” said Rush. “The Paycheck Fairness Act is equally important. The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the nearly 50-year-old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. But once again, Republicans have continued to stand in the way of progress for women and their families.” Democrats have worked to enact the Paycheck Fairness Act for years. In 2008 and again in 2009, the Democratic-led House succeeded in passing the bill, but in both years, Senate Republicans blocked the measure. Similarly, in 2012, Republicans in both the House and Senate voted to block the bill. In 2013, it’s time for Republicans to finally stand up for America’s women and help pass the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. “On Equal Pay Day 2013, let us all vow that, in order to strengthen the American family and ensure fairness in the workplace, we will work together until we have achieved an America where women are truly paid equal pay for equal work,” concluded Rush. AAUW fact sheet on the pay gap for your state, which includes district-by-district information ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush salutes WVON Radio for its 50 years of service in the community. WVON is a Chicago institution and has been a pillar of the African-American community for many years. This year WVON will celebrate 50 years of broadcasting on the airwaves. “I commend WVON for its historic role in narrating the story of African-Americans in this country and the City of Chicago,” said Rush. “WVON continues to stay relevant in changing times and offers a necessary voice for the issues of the day that no one is talking about. WVON has given African-Americans a stronger voice in addressing important community issues in the Chicago area and truly is the Voice of the Nation.” ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement remembering the life of film critic Roger Ebert: “Roger was a fighter,” said Rush. “He wrote his way into the hearts and minds of the nation. He was able to transcend all barriers and etch his opinions into the hearts and minds of moviegoers and movie lovers across the nation. May he rest in peace.” “Chaz and Roger also exemplified how lovely it is to love.” ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush will kick off the annual business mentor program with SCORE, a nonprofit association dedicated to helping small businesses get off the ground, grow and achieve their business goals. SCORE’s one-on-one business counseling will start Wednesday, April 3rd in Congressman Rush’s Chicago Office at 700 E. 79th Street Chicago, IL 60619 from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Rush’s partnership with SCORE began in 2005 with the goal of providing mentoring and educational programs for small and emerging businesses. SCORE provides small businesses with high quality support, expert training, mentorship and guidance to give new business owners the best chance at success. “Small business owners embody the spirit of entrepreneurship that lie at the heart of the American dream,” said Rush. “I am bringing SCORE as a resource partner to use both of my offices for the convenience of 1st District businesses.” Jack Donohue, a SCORE mentor, will serve at both 79th Street and Midlothian Office at 3235 W. 147th Street Midlothian, IL 60445. SCORE business counseling at the Midlothian Office will be held on Tuesdays from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. To schedule a one-on-one counseling appointment visit www.scorechicago.org. All SCORE mentoring is provided at no charge to clients. ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will march with hundreds of students, parents and teachers who oppose the closing of 53 Chicago public schools. Rush released the following statement on the school closings: “A quality education is the key to a successful future and our future is our children. We must look at the closing of these schools for what they are which is the destabilization of our communities. The numbers report that more than 1,100 teachers may be out of work, close to 30,000 students displaced and 61 buildings will stand vacant. By consolidating these schools we are uprooting our children from their classrooms, asking them to commute to new environments that could potentially be dangerous and sending hundreds of professionals to the unemployment line.” “A total of nine schools are set to close in my district that does not include the six after school programs coming to end. Although, the Department of Education reports an estimate $937.7 million dollars allocated to CPS for 2013, a significant increase from last year’s $827.5 million, the Board’s only solution is to close 53 schools.” “I stand with the students, parents and teachers in asking CPS to come up with an alternative solution to fixing our education infrastructure than the closing of 53 schools.” ###
04.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Yesterday, Congressman Bobby L. Rush reintroduced legislation that would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to regulate prison phone call rates. For three straight Congresses, Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush has introduced federal legislation and advocated nationally for dramatically reducing exorbitant rates that are charged for phone calls between families and their loved ones. The Family Telephone Connection Protection Act of 2013 would require the FCC to regulate exorbitant, interstate calling rates for prison phone calls between parents, spouses and families with children. A diverse coalition of both liberal and conservative groups has also called for regulatory action to resolve this matter. “Communication, along with the ability to express love toward family, is a fundamental need, and one’s humanity does not perish when they enter the prison system,” said Rush. Rush has repeatedly expressed his concern over the fact that families whose phone calls pass through prison networks have to pay up to twenty times the amount that families whose calls travel through traditional public landlines and wireless networks end up paying. Rush has described this issue as the “family divide,” a term analogous to the “digital divide” that exists with regard to unequal access to broadband services. Although this is an issue that affects families from all backgrounds (over 2.7 million children in the United States have at least one parent in prison), more than sixty percent of incarcerated prisoners are African- or Hispanic-American. In addition, many prison offenders come from economically vulnerable communities; unreasonable prison phone rates severely harm and exploit prison populations. Scores of states receive hundreds of millions of dollars in commissions from companies to land exclusive contracts to provide prison phone services without facing competition from other lower-cost providers; being a suggested reason for why prison phone call rates have skyrocketed. Bloomberg reports the lucrative market for prison phone services, which totals approximately $1.2 billion dollars in annual revenues is currently dominated by two companies, Global Tel*Link Corp. and Securus Technologies, Inc. At the local level, in late 2012, a proposal to cut prison phone rates by half and to double the time limits allotted for calls was placed before the Cook County Board. The requests for proposal are now being disseminated to potential bidders. Coincidentally, yesterday was also the FCC’s deadline for filing comments on its notice of proposed rulemaking on the issue of inmate calling services. In September, 2012, Reps. Rush and Henry A. Waxman sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski urging the FCC to act on these high phone rates that unfairly punish families for having a relative in prison. ###
03.21.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush voted against the Ryan-Republican budget that slows our economic recovery, destroys American jobs, ends the Medicare guarantee and provides huge tax cuts for the wealthy. Rather than address the top priorities of the middle class, House Republicans have simply presented more of the same failed policies and misplaced priorities that the American people rejected last fall. “Today, I took a stand for America’s middle class families and a balanced approach to budgeting—rejecting another Ryan-Republican budget favoring huge tax breaks for millionaires and special interests over Medicare and the middle class,” said Rush. “These are the wrong priorities for America’s families and economic growth. Instead it is time to work together and get the job done on a responsible, balanced plan to create jobs, strengthen the middle class, and responsibly reduce the deficit.” In the Ryan-Republican budget, Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan repeats the failed proposals of the last two years and makes them worse. This Republican budget will result in two million fewer American jobs next year alone, decrease GDP 1.7 percent, and stall our nation’s recovery. Even worse than the Romney tax plan, the Republican budget could raise taxes on middle class families with children by more than $3,000 per year to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. “The American people deserve better. I support a bipartisan solutions-based budgeting plan to reduce the deficit and strengthen the middle class, creating growth with jobs, cutting spending responsibly, increasing revenues for the wealthiest Americans, and reducing the deficit—but not on the backs of seniors and the middle class,” Rush added. ###
03.20.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush attended the Black Immigration Advocacy Rally to stand in solidarity and support of Comprehensive Immigration Reform that is inclusive of black immigrants and the black immigrant perspective. “The United States is a country made up of immigrants, and this is what makes our country strong. People from different backgrounds, countries and cultures have added to the success of America, and as we move forward with Comprehensive Immigration Reform, including Afro-immigrants, we must make sure that everyone who works hard, plays by the rules and does their fair share for our country receives an equal shot at citizenship and the American Dream,” said Rush. Black immigrants in the U.S. make up an estimated 10–12% of the foreign-born population and are among the most highly educated of all immigrant groups in the U.S. Yet, black immigrants (from Africa and the Caribbean) face tremendous adversity and are often forgotten in the immigration debate. The congressionally mandated Diversity Immigrant Visa Program makes available up to 55,000 diversity visas (DVs) annually, drawn from random selection among all entries to persons who meet strict eligibility requirements from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States. “We must work to protect every group of immigrants that seek to make our Country their home, and ensure a clear path to America for our brothers and sisters of the African Diaspora through Diversity visas, and Family Unification visas,” added Rush. ###
03.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced that a new report shows that hundreds of thousands of people in Illinois are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. The third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act falls on March 23rd. “It has only been three years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, but millions of Americans are already seeing lower costs and better coverage,” said Rush. “This includes hundreds of thousands of people right here in Illinois.” A new report by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides estimates by state of the number of people benefiting from the law. “Residents of my state ranging from young adults to seniors to children are receiving critical benefits from this healthcare law,” said Rush. The new report shows that the healthcare law has already provided: No lifetime limit on coverage for 4,670,000 residents of Illinois, including 1,743,000 women and 1,192,000 children. The healthcare law prohibits insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. It is estimated that 4,670,000 residents of Illinois had a lifetime limit on their coverage before health reform, and now no longer do. In the past, in some cases, lifetime limits on coverage have forced some families to declare personal bankruptcy. Lower drug costs for 133,889 seniors in Illinois. The healthcare law makes prescription drug coverage for people with Medicare more affordable. It does this by gradually closing the gap in drug coverage known as the ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, in 2012 alone, 133,889 seniors in Illinois who reached the ‘donut hole’ saved $235.3 million on their drugs, an average of $716 per senior. Also, since the enactment of the healthcare law, seniors in Illinois have saved a total of $95.9 million. Free key preventive services used by 1,271,704 seniors in Illinois. The healthcare law provides free Medicare coverage of key preventive services, such as mammograms, colonoscopies, and annual wellness visits. Because of this provision, 1,271,704 seniors in Illinois received one or more free preventive services under Medicare in 2012, lowering their out-of-pocket healthcare costs. Before reform, some preventive services could have a co-pay as high as $160. Free key preventive services for 3,047,000 individuals under age 65 in Illinois. The healthcare law also provides, for those enrolled in most private plans, free coverage of key preventive services. As a result of this provision, 3,047,000 individuals in Illinois with private insurance plans received one or more free key preventive services, such as mammograms or flu shots, in 2011 and 2012. Coverage for 125,000 additional young adults in Illinois, who would otherwise be uninsured. The healthcare law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 125,000 young adults in Illinois have obtained health insurance through their parents’ plan, who would be uninsured without this coverage. Rebates from insurance companies benefiting 299,544 consumers in Illinois. Under the healthcare law, insurers must spend at least 80 percent of premiums on medical care and quality improvement—rather than CEO pay, profits and administrative costs. Each summer, all insurers that fail to meet this standard must pay rebates to their customers. Last summer, 299,544 consumers in Illinois benefited from $61,802,411 in rebates that were provided by the insurance companies. “As the new benefits of the healthcare law continue to be implemented, I will continue to fight GOP efforts to repeal this critical law, such as the GOP budget on the House Floor this week that repeals health reform,” Rush added. “Republican efforts to repeal reform will put the insurance companies back in charge and will lead to higher costs and reduced benefits for millions of Americans across the country.” ###
03.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Ed Whitfield requesting a hearing with scientists and other experts on the need for action to address climate change, following a hearing earlier this month featuring testimony from utilities on the EPA’s proposed carbon standards for new power plants. Discussions of climate change were a dominant focus of the March 5th hearing before the Energy and Power Subcommittee, with numerous Republican members questioning witnesses on the impacts of the proposed standard. Reps. Waxman and Rush write, “We also need to hear from the scientists and technical experts who can inform the Subcommittee about the dangers of man-made climate change and the closing window for effective action.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. ###
03.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Power issued the following statement on the announcement that President Obama has nominated Gina McCarthy as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Ernest Moniz as Secretary of the Department of Energy: “Gina McCarthy has testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee many times over the past few years and has always shown a great level of expertise and professionalism, while also continuously advocating for environmental protections in order to ensure that all Americans have access to clean air, water, and land. I look forward to working with her after she is confirmed as EPA Administrator and I also look forward to working with Ernie Moniz in his role as Secretary of Energy,” said Rush. “The nominations present an opportunity to sit down with the new appointments to discuss my priorities of focusing on STEM education and increasing opportunities for minorities in all aspects of the energy sector. I also hope the Secretaries will work with me to find ways to increase minority participation in the construction, operation, and ownership of pipelines, as well as boosting minority participation in both upstream and downstream contracting and subcontracting opportunities in the oil and gas industries.” ###
03.19.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush introduced the Hadiya Pendleton and Nyasia Pryear-Yard Stop Illegal Trafficking in Firearms Act of 2013 to limit straw purchases of firearms and reduce illegal trafficking of firearms across state lines. A key focus of the bill is targeted at anti-straw purchasing and firearms trafficking by individuals known as “straw purchasers” who play key roles in most firearms trafficking operations. “Equipping federal law enforcement officials with the legislative authority to halt illegal tracking of firearms is an appropriate and sensible action for Congress to take,” said Rush. “Selfish individuals who scam and work around existing checks and controls in the system put our communities at risk through their selfish greed and lack of forethought for others whom they place in harm’s way.” Under current law, there is no criminal statute illegalizing straw purchasing or firearms trafficking. This bill would make it a federal crime to purchase a gun from a Federal Firearms Licensee (FFL) for, on behalf of, or at the request or demand of any other person. For purchases made from a private seller, this new section would make it a crime to purchase a gun for, on behalf of, or at the request of someone who is prohibited from possessing a firearm (e.g. a convicted felon or someone adjudicated as mentally ill). The maximum sentence for this offense would be 15 years imprisonment or 25 years imprisonment if the defendant knew or had reasonable cause to believe that any firearm involved would be used to commit a crime of violence. It is important to note that anyone purchasing a firearm from an FFL must already sign a Form 4473 stating that he or she is the “actual buyer” of the firearm. Rush a long time advocate for tougher gun laws also introduced H.R. 34, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2013 on the first day of the 113th Congress. Originally introduced in 2007 and subsequently reintroduced in 2009, the bill is named after Blair Holt, a Chicago Julian High School honor student who was gunned down while riding home from school on a crowded public transit bus. A teenager, seeking a rival gang member, boarded the bus and opened fire with a .40 caliber handgun. Missing his intended target, the shooter struck Blair and two other female classmates. Video footage of the assault shows that seconds before he was fatally hit in the abdomen, Blair had pushed the female friend next to him down into the seat and shielded her body with his own. In an instant, this brave young man, the son of a police officer and a firefighter, sacrificed his life to save another. Upon enactment into law, “Blair’s Bill” would: (1) protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to criminals and youth; (2) ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms; (3) restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, youth, and other persons prohibited by Federal law from receiving firearms (mentally unstable, fugitives, addicts, dishonorably discharged military personnel, those subject to restraining orders); and (4) facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by Federal and State law enforcement. Rush continues to fight for commonsense gun laws that will protection communities and work to end senseless gun violence across the country. ###
03.01.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, along with President Barack Obama, House and Senate leaders, participated in a ceremony to dedicate a statue commemorating Civil Rights icon Rosa Parks. “Rosa Parks deserves to be honored and memorialized for her work and demonstration as a woman of great strength and deep commitment to justice,” said Rush. “What Rosa Parks did for the African-American community during the 1960s was set an agenda to fight for equal rights in an America that was deeply divided and oppressive. The ceremony recognized Rosa for her bravery and will forever legitimize her sacrifice and demand for freedom and equality. The statue dedication is particularly timely as February is Black History Month.” On December 1, 1955, in Montgomery, Alabama, Parks refused to obey bus driver James F. Blake’s order that she give up her seat in the colored section to a white passenger, after the white section was filled. Parks refused to give up a seat that day crediting her with sparking the Montgomery Bus Boycott. The statue stands in National Statuary Hall in the United States Capitol. ###
02.26.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Power participated in a hearing on American Energy Security and Innovation: An Assessment of Private-Sector and Opportunities in Energy Efficient Technologies. The following are excerpts of Rush’s opening remarks and dialogue with Department of Energy officials: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding today’s hearing on the successes and opportunities in energy efficient technologies. Mr. Chairman, it is my sincere hope that after hearing from today’s panel of witnesses, Members from both sides of the aisle will be able to come together and move the country’s energy policy forward by working to enact commonsense energy efficiency legislation.” Dr. Kathleen Hogan, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency testified before the Subcommittee and discussed the Department’s recent achievements in their effort to help the American people and businesses save money by lowering utility bills in buildings, enhance American competitiveness and energy productivity through advanced manufacturing, and reduce fuel consumption and lower the cost of transportation. “How is the Department addressing the impact of energy cost on low income households in Illinois’ First District where families disproportionately pay higher for energy bills?” asked Rush. “I would like the opportunity to work directly with your Department to continually expand the Department’s Weatherization Program as it builds newer housing to ensure those units are up to Department energy standards.” Rush also interjected the importance of teaching younger generations the importance of energy savings. Three panels spoke before the Subcommittee on Energy and Power including U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski from Alaska and Jeanne Shaheen from New Hampshire, Kevin Kosisko, Vice President of Services at ABB North America, on behalf of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association and the Industrial Energy Electrification Coalition, James Crouse, Executive Vice President for Sales and Marketing at Capstone Turbine Corporation, on behalf of the U.S. Combined Heat & Power Association, Helen Burt, Senior Vice President Consumer Care and Chief Customer Officer at Pacific Gas and Electric Company, R. Neal Elliott, Associate Director for Research at American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE), Ted Gayer, Co-Director and Joseph A. Pechman, Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution. For more information about today’s hearing visit the hearing information page. ###
02.13.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Waxman and Subcommittee Ranking Members Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Congressman Frank Pallone, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, Congresswoman Diana DeGette, Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky, and Congressman Paul Tonko sent a letter to Chairman Upton requesting hearings on the impact of the automatic budget cuts scheduled to go into effect as part of the March 1 sequester. The cuts will affect almost every agency within the Committee’s jurisdiction and will result in over $85 billion in cuts to key domestic priorities and defense programs. The members write, “It would be irresponsible for the Committee to fail to investigate the impact of these massive cuts to important agencies and programs under our jurisdiction. We hope you will schedule these hearings as expeditiously as possible.” The letter was signed by Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr., Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush, Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky, and Environment and the Economy Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko. The full text of the letter is available below and online here. ###
02.12.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush responds to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address: “I commend President Obama for laying out a clear framework in his State of the Union address and offering direction for this nation’s way forward.” “The President’s focus on the middle class indicates his understanding that our nation’s future is in manufacturing, infrastructure, clean energy, education and equipping Americans with the skills they need for tomorrow’s job market.” “As ranking Democratic member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee—the committee that oversees national energy policy, including cybersecurity of energy facilities—the President’s executive order on improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity is paramount and will continue to strengthen critical infrastructure by reducing cyber risks.” “Additionally, I applaud the President for proposing solutions to our country’s pressing issues without increasing our deficit.” “Finally, as a longtime advocate of ending the scourge of gun violence I am pleased to see that President Obama has not only proposed common sense solutions to this problem but has recognized its importance and helped bring this issue to the national stage. The time to act is not now. The time to act was before violence claimed so many lives. Our country is long overdue for action and I am proud to stand with the President and work towards this goal.” ###
02.12.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush called upon the House GOP leadership to quickly bring up and pass the bipartisan Senate-passed Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization. Earlier today, the Senate passed S. 47, a strong, bipartisan VAWA Reauthorization bill by a bipartisan vote of 78 to 22. This Senate-passed bill is almost identical to the strong, bipartisan bill that passed the Senate by a vote of 68 to 31 in April 2012. “This is a very important bill that will protect women,” Rush said. “The victims of domestic violence, dating violence and sexual assault should not have to wait any longer. It has been 501 days since House Republicans allowed VAWA to expire. Despite the fact that the Senate passed a strong, bipartisan bill in the last Congress, the House GOP Leadership failed to bring this bipartisan bill to the Floor. Now, in this new Congress, the Senate has once again acted. The House must quickly take up this strong Senate-passed bill and get it to the President’s desk for his signature.” This bipartisan Senate-passed bill significantly strengthens the ability of the federal government, the states, law enforcement and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. It also includes provisions to ensure that all victims of domestic violence receive the protection they need — including providing new protections, based on findings from experts in the field, for tribal members, immigrants and members of the LGBT community. On January 22, Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) and other House Democrats introduced H.R. 11, a VAWA Reauthorization identical to S. 47, the Senate bill, and Rush is a cosponsor of that bill. H.R. 11 currently has 181 cosponsors. ###
02.07.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — As I read an article that captured the last minutes of Hadiya’s life tears streamed down my face. An unknown gunman hopped the fence of Harsh Park and opened fire, the word harsh seemed almost too appropriate for what took place last week. A week later, Hadiya will be laid to rest by her parents, family, friends, and community. On Saturday, I will attend the funeral services of Hadiya Pendelton, where a community will mourn, but also celebrate her life and vow to prevent more acts of gun violence that currently run rampant in our streets. Hadiya and many of our youth’s lives are taken away from them too soon, too often and for senselessness. I intentionally use the word OUR because as a nation, as a community, as individuals we must move away from a mindset of mine versus yours. We all should begin to move toward a community mindset. It is in times of devastation that we begin to reevaluate how we live our lives, what we teach our children, and how we treat our neighbors. Let us not squander this moment, but let it push us to sow the words community into the fabric of our minds, our homes, future generations and our classrooms. The word community invites us to embrace our neighbors, our children and our future from a perspective of I cannot prosper without the help of my community. “Take it from the good neighbors on Oakenwald: if you do nothing the problems of ‘those people’ in ‘that part of town’ can find you — even if you live on a quiet street nobody has ever heard of,” wrote DNAinfo reporter, Mark Konkol. Let us take the debate beyond votes on the House floor, beyond party affiliation and bring it to the streets of Chicago and to the suburbs of Newton, Connecticut whose families have felt the severe impact of gun violence. We must simply go back to basics and that is family, valuing human life, the future of our youth and our community. ###
02.05.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush speaks to the life and legacy of former Chicago Congresswoman Cardiss Collins. Congresswoman Collins reportedly passed away Friday of natural causes. She was one of the longest-serving African-American women in Congress representing Illinois' Seventh Congressional District for over 20 years. Collins was the first black woman elected to Congress from Illinois and the Midwest, and later served in leadership roles within the Congressional Black Caucus. “Cardiss was a strong, resilient woman who touched the lives of many. She should always be remembered for her work, determination and strength to help and serve the poor and middle class, African-Americans and women,” said Rush. A pioneer of her time, she was an effective policy maker and Representative where she set the benchmark for many Members of Congress to emulate.” ###
02.05.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today, Trayvon Martin would have celebrated his 18th birthday. In honor of Trayvon’s life Congressman Bobby L. Rush cosponsored a resolution along with Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (D-FL). “This is a call to end racial profiling in America,” said Rush. “In order for our nation to move forward and see every one of our youth as intrinsically valuable and not be judged because of their skin, I as a Member of Congress will not allow Trayvon’s death to be in vain.” On the night of February 26, 2012, in Sanford, Florida Trayvon was allegedly murdered by George Zimmerman, the appointed neighborhood watch coordinator for the gated community where Trayvon was visiting his father at the time of the shooting. The text of the resolution reads: ###
01.30.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush announces that the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Defense (DoD) recently released improvements to the functionality of eBenefits, a joint self-service web portal that provides registered users with secure online information and access to a variety of military and Veterans benefits resources. Rush consistently works to ensure that constituents of Illinois’ First District receive and are aware of services, benefits and resources available to their daily needs. “It is vital to share this information with veteran constituents of Illinois’ First District to keep them well informed of new resources that will provided improved access to services,” said Rush. “We should always keep our veterans a priority and better services are a sure way to do so.” The new eBenefits will allow veteran constituents to research, find, access, and, when fully implemented, manage their benefits and personal information. Below are links to promotional items veterans can use to learn more about eBenefits: eBenefits trifold brochure – a concise overview of eBenefits, explains how VA and DoD can help, and provides information on how to register. eBenefits fact sheet – a list of frequently asked questions about eBenefits with highlights about the many features eBenefits has to offer. eBenefits promotional posters – material to promote eBenefits and encourage online registering for an eBenefits Premium Account. eBenefits flyer/advertisement – more material to promote eBenefits and encourage online registering for an eBenefits Premium Account. eBenefits allow veterans to view processing times for each phase of their claim and access 47 new self-service features enabling Servicemembers and Veterans the ability to download copies of their official VA and military correspondence. For more information on veterans services in Illinois’ First District contact the Office of Congressman Bobby L. Rush at 708-385-9550. ###
01.29.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement on President Obama’s call for comprehensive immigration reform: “The President’s commitments to strengthen our country’s borders, hold employers responsible for hiring undocumented workers and a comprehensive legal immigration system will clear a path for every person seeking citizenship a chance to the American dream.” “The President’s plan also expands on the Administration’s previous efforts to pass the DREAM Act which provides permanent residency to youth who graduate from U.S. high schools and give them the promise of a secure life in this country. All these reforms point to future growth, diversity and strength of our nation.” “The time is now to work with the President on immigration reform, particularly Afro-immigration policy initiatives that I, along with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus, will be working to advance. The President’s proposed immigration reform will strengthen border security and infrastructure, combat fraud and identity theft, create strict requirements to qualify for lawful permanent resident status and expand opportunities for investor visas and U.S. economic development.” ###
01.24.2013	CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush remembers the life and legacy of a dear friend and staffer of many years, Ms. Judy Tucker former Congressional Aide to Congressman Rush and Metcalfe and pioneer on behalf of women in politics. Judy Tucker, former aide to the late Congressman Ralph Metcalfe and long time director of constituent services for Congressman Bobby Rush has died. She was 69 years old. As a young woman Tucker dedicated her life to public service and helping people. She is renowned for her skills in cutting through government red tape to help others navigate the federal bureaucracy. For two decades Tucker helped thousands of Rush’s constituents solve problems with public utilities, city government, housing, social security, the U.S. Postal Service, and the I.R.S. She was responsible for the teaching of Grant Writing to Social Service Agencies and helped young people gain acceptance to our nation’s Military Academies. She made this work her personal mission. Simply put Judy Tucker knew who to call and what to say to them to get things done.” “I have lost a dear friend and Chicago has lost a true public servant.” Congressman Rush said. “Judy demonstrated both kindness and strength to everyone who walked into our offices. She welcomed people into her home, fed people when they were hungry, arranged care when they were sick and did this all with grace and a smile. She was one of the most giving people I have ever known.” Tucker began her career in politics and public service in 1972 working as an intern and later as a congressional staffer to the late Congressman Ralph H. Metcalfe, Sr. At the time African-American women had few opportunities on Capitol Hill. But Tucker’s tough no-nonsense approach helped her successfully navigate the choppy waters of Chicago and Washington politics. At the time Congressman Metcalfe wrote about his young intern: “of all the interns that have been assigned to me, I rate Mrs. Judy Tucker as one of the most conscientious, concerned and apt students. Mrs. Tucker is punctual, dependable and cooperative. She possesses a rare quality.” The Metcalfe family became a second family for Tucker and she remained close friends with Metcalfe, his wife and children throughout her life. According to Rush “Judy learned the art and science of governance and politics from the best, the late Ralph Metcalfe. She passed on what she knew to countless interns and young people paving the way for their careers in politics and public service.” Her passion for public service would take her to work for the City of Chicago’s Commission on Human Relations under director Rachel R. Ridley. She also worked for the late Alderman Tyrone Kenner as the Secretary of City Council Committee on Public Utilities and later as the secretary for the Finance Committee. She went on to work for Commissioner Jerry Butler. In 1987 then Alderman Bobby Rush tapped Tucker understanding the importance of her local and national experience to his own future political aspirations. Tucker worked for Rush until her retirement from congressional service in 2010. A child of the Great Migration, Tucker was born in Cincinnati Ohio on September 1, 1943. She was the eldest of four children born to Dorothy and Lovell Ellis. Mr. Ellis worked as a custodian and security guard and Mrs. Ellis worked in a factory. In 1955 The Ellis’ moved to the Chicago area and bought their first home in Markham, Illinois where Tucker and her siblings grew up. Judy attended Thornton Township high school and one of her first jobs as a young woman was that of a gift wrapper at Spiegel's. She married Elishious Tucker in 1972. Together they raised and educated 5 children. The Tucker family moved to Chicago and in 1983 bought a home in the Chatham community that was in need of remodeling. For the last 29 years Judy and Lish spent much of their spare time lovingly transforming the house and its gardens into their own personal “Better Homes and Gardens Dream House”. Judy’s flowers bloomed but it was her vegetable garden that made her famous among her friends and co-workers. “We would wait for the peppers, collard greens, and tomatoes to appear in the district office.” Rush said. “These vegetables were a true expression of Judy’s personality. She planted them, watered them, nurtured and fed them and then sent them out into the world for others to share” Tucker was an active member and an usher at the Miracle House of Prayer formerly known as the Southwestern Missionary Baptist Church at 8638 S. Michigan. Funeral Services will be held at the church on Saturday at 10:30 a.m., with a wake and breakfast from 9:30 a.m. until 10:30 a.m. Visitation is Friday January 25th at the W.W. Holt Funeral Home 175 W. 159th Street, Harvey, Illinois from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m. Tucker is survived by her husband Elishious, children Harriet Pitts, William Pitts, Aron Pitts, Michael Pitts and Dottie Hall; two siblings Lydia Christian and Cedric Ellis. Her brother Lovell Ellis Jr. preceded her in death. In addition there are 18 grandchildren, seven great grand children and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. ### Ms. Judy Tucker
01.18.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chief Judge Timothy C. Evans requesting he appoint a special prosecutor to review evidence in wake of a newly release videotape showing the strangulation death of Anthony Kyser by a CVS store manager, on Tuesday, May 18, 2010. The letter is as follows: ###
01.16.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush was unanimously reelected to his position as Ranking Democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Power following a vote of the Committee’s Democratic Caucus on yesterday. Rush also maintained his subcommittee assignments on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade and Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. The Energy and Power Subcommittee has jurisdiction over national energy policy including fossil, renewable and nuclear energy and nuclear facilities; synthetic and alternative fuels, energy conservation and information, utility issues, and interstate energy compacts; energy generation, marketing, reliability, transmission, siting, exploration, production, efficient, cybersecurity and ratemaking for all generated power. Additionally, the subcommittee maintain jurisdiction over pipelines, the Clean Air Act and air emission; and all laws, programs and government activities affecting energy matters and provides legislative oversight for the U.S. Department of Energy, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Rush, who also served as the top Democratic for the Energy and Power panel in the 112th Congress, intends to focus on several key energy initiatives for the 113th Congress to address the growing need for a comprehensive approach to smart and clean energy ideas. Rush has set an energy agenda that includes monitoring the administration’s decision on the Keystone XL oil pipeline, ensuring that the most vulnerable citizens have access to clean air and water by vigorously protecting the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act and Rush will continue to make nuclear plants operating safety and the safe disposal of nuclear waste energy a priority. ###
01.14.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) sent the following letter to Russell Girling, President and CEO of the TransCanada Corporation along with his colleague, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX): ###
01.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — “I know that Sandi did not arrive at this decision quickly or arbitrarily. This is something that she had to really consider. My prayers go out to the family. We really need to surround the Jackson family with compassion and understanding. I know that the Jackson family will come out much stronger as a family.” “Sandi is a brilliant woman, a loving mother, a committed wife and a tremendous leader. Chicago will not be as good as it could have been due to Sandi’s resignation. I believe that she may take this time to focus on her family.” ###
01.11.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 679-0381 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov Dear Vice President Biden: I am writing to respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss the issue of gun violence. This week you met with various stakeholders to discuss strategies, recommendations, and legislative solutions to address this critical issue and there are many Members of Congress whose districts have been plagued for years with devastating gun violence. For instance, the City of Chicago experienced over 500 homicides in 2012 alone, giving it the notorious distinction as the nation’s leader in gun violence. Additionally, there are many other Members, including many of my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus, who represent districts in the inner cities that have been terrorized by gun violence for years. Unfortunately, for far too many of our constituents, gun violence is so prevalent that it has become a horrifying part of their everyday lives. As you know, Mr. Vice President, this is wholly unacceptable. No American family should have to live in terror or in the resignation that their lives are in constant danger. No student should have to fear for their life while simply walking to school or playing outside. I share your concern over this crisis in our society and I respectfully request that you invite me and interested members of the Congressional Black Caucus to come meet with you to share our expertise, experiences, and recommendations. I know that you will do everything in your power to help stem this pervasive problem of gun violence and I offer my assistance to help you achieve this goal. Meeting with Members of Congress who have been working on this issue for many years will provide further insight and will help inform the decision-making process moving forward. Please contact my Senior Policy Advisor, John Marshall at (202) 225-4372 to respond to this request and I thank you in advance for your consideration. Sincerely, Bobby L. Rush Member of Congress ###
01.07.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 225-4372 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) was sworn in for his 11th term on Thursday, January 3rd making him the 2nd longest serving congressman from the First Congressional District of Illinois. The late William L. Dawson served 14 terms making him the longest serving representative of the First District. Congressman Rush will serve in the 113th United States Congress as a senior Democratic ranking member of the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee. Key initiatives for Congressman Rush this term will cover a wide reaching scope of issues that cohesively address the most critical needs of Illinois’ First District. His five key initiatives include preserving social security, fostering access to health care for the uninsured, reducing gun violence through increased gun control and firearm safety and other measures, improving America’s energy independence and energy security, protecting consumer privacy and promoting minority ownership and job creation in high growth sectors, including energy, media, wireless communications and online commerce. Implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (“Obamacare”) The Illinois Medicaid program provides primary and acute medical services and long-term care services to more than 3 million individuals residing in the state. Low-income seniors and persons with disabilities are the predominant majority of those covered by Medicaid. As federal and state health regulators implement the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Congressman Rush will be advocating for the prudent expansion of the Illinois Medicaid program and for sufficient initial funding from the federal government for that expansion. Congressman Rush and his staff are prepared to assist residents of the First District who are legally eligible for Medicaid coverage apply for and retain their eligibility under Medicaid. Another health care priority of the Congressman’s is for Illinois to establish a well-run and consumer-friendly, affordable health insurance exchange, which is activated and operational by January 1, 2014. The Illinois state health insurance exchange will provide uninsured individuals and small employers with access to a competitive marketplace for directly comparing available private health insurance options on the basis of price, quality, and other important decisional factors. Gun Violence and Gun Control The nation averages 87 gun deaths each day as a function of gun violence. The recent school shooting in Newton, Connecticut, and the City of Chicago reporting 506 deaths in 2012 due to gun violence point to the need for tougher gun laws. Congressman Rush introduced H.R. 34, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2012, legislation aimed at establishing a nationwide system for prohibiting unlicensed gun-ownership and granting the U.S. Attorney General broad authority over the program. Gun violence in the United States is associated with the majority of homicides, over half the suicides, and two-thirds of non-fatal violent injuries; and six on the afternoon of May 10, 2007, when Blair Holt, a junior at Julian High School in Chicago, was killed. Blair was riding home from school on a public bus when he used his body to shield a girl who was in the line of fire after a young man boarded the bus and started shooting. Energy Congressman Rush, Ranking Democratic Member of the House Subcommittee on Energy & Power in the 112th Congress vigorously defended the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Acts, and introduced or cosponsored dozens of bills and legislative amendments to strengthen weaknesses in these laws. During the 112th Congress, Congressman Rush also authored a number of articles and testified before the Chicago City Council in support of City of Chicago air quality laws and actions needed to curb excessive pollution and toxic and carbon emissions. Seeing that, in producing electricity, Illinois currently has more operating nuclear reactors than any other state, Congressman Rush will continue to make nuclear plant operating safety and the safe disposal of nuclear waste energy a priority in the 113th Congress. An added priority for Congressman Rush in the upcoming Congress is to further develop more clean and renewable forms of energy that over time will be less costly and much less harmful to public health, safety and the environment than traditional fossil fuels. Consumer Privacy Many consumers, especially those who shop online, say they have serious concerns about the types and extent of personal and sensitive information about them that is collected, used, shared and sometimes, even sold to third parties. Recent surveys show that well over half of U.S. consumers are bothered by these practices and over 70 percent of consumers believe that this information should only be collected and used with their prior permission. For the past two Congresses, Congressman Rush has introduced comprehensive consumer privacy legislation known as the Best Practices Act. He is known among his colleagues in the U.S. Congress as a thought and policy leader on privacy issues. In coming years, these issues are expected to intensify in scope and significance due to the increasing importance of online commerce in our global economy, consumers’ surging use of wireless devices and smart phones, and differing views on individual privacy held by foreign governments and online users living in those nations. Minority Ownership & Job Creation – Media, Wireless Communications & Online Commerce Congressman Rush knows that the economic recovery has not touched all individuals and communities. Given the latest national employment data showing African-American unemployment rates hovering over 13 percent and Hispanic-American unemployment rates at 10 percent (compared to 6.4 and 6.8 percent for Asian- and whites-Americans), this is a supportable conclusion. Minorities are even more underrepresented in key, high-growth sectors of the economy, such as information and Internet services and communications media. Given their importance in informing our democracy, educating and entertaining our students and larger society, and equipping workers of today with the skills and training that will be needed for many of tomorrow’s jobs; it is sensible to target them a viable remedy to the underemployment of minorities. Increasing minority ownership in firms that conduct business in these sectors may yield better employment outcomes for minority workers. ###
01.04.2013	CONTACT: Debra Johnson (202) 225-4372 Debra.Johnson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Kicking off the opening of the 113th Congress in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Bobby L. Rush introduced H.R. 34, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2013, legislation aimed at establishing a nationwide system for prohibiting unlicensed gun-ownership and granting the U.S. Attorney General broad authority over the program. “It was important to reintroduce 'Blair’s Bill' on the first day in session to pioneer gun violence as the number one social injustice of our time,” said Rush, who also marked the beginning of his 11th term in office. “As a legislative body we need to address the issue of gun violence head on in order to avert any more senseless mass killings and shooting deaths of our youth in cities across this country.” Rush first introduced this legislation in 2007 and subsequently re-introduced it in 2009 after Blair Holt, a Chicago Julian High School honor student, was gunned down while riding home from school on a crowded public transit bus. A teenager, seeking a rival gang member, boarded the bus and opened fire with a .40 caliber handgun. He missed his intended target, instead striking Blair and two other female classmates. Video footage of the assault shows that seconds before he was fatally hit in the abdomen, Blair had pushed the female friend next to him down into the seat and shielded her body with his own. In an instant, this brave young man, the son of a police officer and a firefighter, sacrificed his life to save another. Upon enactment into law, “Blair’s Bill” would: (1) protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to criminals and youth; (2) ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms; (3) restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, youth, and other persons prohibited by Federal law from receiving firearms (mentally unstable, fugitives, addicts, dishonorably discharged, those under restraining orders) (4) facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by Federal and State law enforcement agencies. “Mayors and law enforcement officials across the country have been calling for this type of legislation for years and I hope that we will be successful in making Blair’s Bill federal law” said Rush. This bill will implement the same type of system that the U.S. automobile industry has in place for licensing drivers and registering cars. Automobile manufacturers stamp and cast identifying numbers on cars and their parts. The vehicle identification number has become referred to as the "VIN". The purpose was to give an accurate description of the vehicle when mass production numbers were starting to climb. This bill will create gun identification numbers “GINs”, a uniform system to keep track of these weapons. “Blair’s Bill” will also assist law enforcement in tracking the flow of guns and require those who possess guns to be trained in gun safety, handling, and storage. While the gun lobby will attack this bill for restricting the availability of guns, Rush firmly believes that all Americans understand the need to implement a common sense federal law that will inform law enforcement of where the guns are and who possesses them. ### Blair's Bill Fact Sheet
12.18.2012	CONTACT: Rev. Stanley Watkins (202) 225-4372 office Stanley.Watkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Today U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced H.R. 6680, the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2012, legislation aimed at establishing a nationwide system for prohibiting unlicensed gun-ownership and granting the U.S. Attorney General broad authority over the program. Specifically upon enactment into law, “Blair’s Bill” would: (1) protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to criminals and youth; (2) ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms; (3) restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, youth, and other persons prohibited by Federal law from receiving firearms; and (4) facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by Federal and State law enforcement agencies. Rush, a dean of the Illinois Congressional delegation, first introduced this legislation in 2007 and subsequently re-introduced it in 2009 after Blair Holt, a Chicago Julian High School honor student, was gunned down while riding home from school on a crowded public transit bus. A teenager, seeking a rival gang member, boarded the bus and opened fire with a .40 caliber handgun. He missed his intended target, instead striking Blair and two other female classmates. Video footage of the assault shows that seconds before he was fatally hit in the abdomen, Blair had pushed the female friend next to him down into the seat and shielded her body with his own. In an instant, this brave young man, the son of a police officer and a firefighter, sacrificed his life to save another. Last Friday’s senseless tragedy in Newtown, Connecticut only served as yet another wake up call to this nation to address the issue of guns and gun violence besieging the country. “It is becoming far too common in America to hear news reports of children being gunned down, Rush declared, who lost his son Huey to gun violence in 1999. “Whether on the South Side of Chicago, Sandy Hook Elementary School, or anywhere else in the United States, children in particular and all of our citizens should be free to live in a safe and nurturing environment.” “Blair’s Bill” will assist law enforcement in tracking the flow of guns and require those who possess guns to be trained in gun safety, handling, and storage. While the gun lobby will attack this bill for restricting the availability of guns, Rush firmly believes that all Americans understand the need to implement a common sense federal law that will inform law enforcement of where the guns are and who possesses them. This bill will implement the same type of system that we have in place for licensing drivers and registering cars. No sensible individual can argue with the fact that with over 200 million guns in the United States, we need a uniform system to keep track of these weapons. Mayors and law enforcement officials across the country have been calling for this type of legislation for years and I hope that we will be successful in making Blair’s Bill federal law. ###
12.14.2012	CONTACT: Rev. Stanley Watkins (202) 225-4372 office Stanley.Watkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) issued the following statement in response to today’s shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: “Today’s shooting in Connecticut is a national tragedy. I join the nation in praying for the victims, their families, friends, & community. “The death of a child is an immeasurable grief that no parent should ever have to bear. Today, it is far too common in our country to hear news reports of children being gunned down for doing something as basic as going to school. Whether on the South Side of Chicago, the suburbs of Connecticut, or anywhere else in the United States children should be free to be children in a safe and nurturing environment. “Once again, the sanctity of childhood and the sanctity of our schools has been marred by gun violence. As Newtown and communities across the nation cope with their grief we must act to prevent something as horrendous as this from occurring again. “I call upon my colleagues in the United States Congress to come out from under their hiding to courageously face this growing pandemic of gun violence in our nation. We are long overdue for a serious national discourse on gun control. “On behalf of my wife Carolyn and the constituents of the First Congressional District of Illinois I extend my heartfelt sympathy to the victims, the survivors, their loved ones, and the community of Newtown as we keep them in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
09.13.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement during today’s hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power. Rush is the ranking Democratic Member of the subcommittee. The topic of the hearing was North American Energy Independence: Mr. Chairman, we are here today examining the issue of how we may reach North American energy independence within the next decade. This hearing will give us an opportunity to discuss the many different initiatives that President Obama has put in place to help us come closer to reaching this goal. Mr. Chairman, unlike the simplistic, Sarah Palin-backed drill, baby, drill Romney-Ryan energy plan, President Obama has put forward a comprehensive energy policy that encompasses concrete proposals to not only make us less reliant on imported oil from overseas, but which also takes into account the serious issue of climate change. While my Republican colleagues are loathe to even mention the words climate change and have claimed it to be a hoax, I can assure you that the farmers across this country would disagree with this position, as we have seen the worst year of record temperatures, drought, and crop loss in modern U.S. history. Mr. Chairman, in March 2011, the Obama Administration released an energy plan titled “Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future.” This comprehensive energy proposal would “build a 21st century clean energy economy” by “reducing our dependence on oil, focusing on expanding cleaner sources of electricity,” and achieving additional energy efficiency through a combination of an all-of-the-above energy policy. The Obama strategy strongly promotes the creation of jobs by developing renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, biomass, and hydropower, while also investing in clean coal technology, increasing production of natural gas, and expanding nuclear power. However, unlike the Romney plan, the Obama energy proposal endorses safe and responsible production of domestic energy sources, which allows input from community members and stakeholders who are directly impacted by oil and gas drilling. Mr. Chairman, any credible expert would have to give credit to the Obama Administration for the advances they have put in place to put us on track for achieving energy independence, which include increased domestic production, a move towards cleaner and renewable energy sources of the future, as well as additional conservation and energy efficiency measures. U.S. oil consumption, which peaked in 2005, dropped by more than 1.9 million barrels per day, or about 9%, by 2011. While some of this recent decline in demand was related to the economic recession, improvements in fuel efficiency, and broader economic trends put forth by the Obama Administration are also responsible for these developments. For instance, the Obama Administration’s vehicle greenhouse gas and fuel economy standards for model years 2012 to 2025 are projected to save more than 2.2 million barrels of oil per day by 2025, and will help us become less reliant on both oil imports and oil in general. So I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and I hope that we can have a balanced and honest debate on this issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.30.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following remarks during a morning news conference at the Harbor at 31st Street this morning. He was joined by Congressman Danny K. Davis, civic, political and arts community leaders in advocating for this tribute to Dr. Margaret Burroughs. “We are here today to make a suggestion to the Chicago Park District Board of Directors that we really shouldn’t even have to make. We’re here to remind them to do something that they should have already done. Something obvious. Something simple. Something beautiful. And something that is absolutely right! Name the 31st Street Harbor and beach…this beautiful place where we stand today after Dr. Margaret Burroughs. Give this place that is a historic gateway to the Bronzeville Community a name that is more than just a location. It’s been the 31st Street Beach for a very long time but now that is just not good enough. Our community deserves that respect and Dr. Burroughs, who was a powerful advocate for African and African-American art and literature as well as a painter and prolific author and poet herself, deserves this level of recognition. The fact that this place is now a harbor is not lost on those of us who knew Margaret Burroughs. During the 1940’s her house, located less than three miles from here, stood as a harbor of another kind for black artists whose work was not recognized as legitimate by the white arts establishment. When nobody would put our paintings on their walls, Dr. Burroughs did! When the main museums of this country wouldn’t collect black art Dr. Burroughs did. When the galleries wouldn’t sell our work, she did. Her contribution to the growth and development of African-American artists in Chicago and the nation was tremendous. But beginning the 1940’s her home was a port…a harbor, protected from the rough waters of segregation…a place of appreciation for creativity and talent that was too often starved of oxygen under an ocean of disrespect. When the mainstream critics refused to see our painful journey on canvas and in clay and in cloth as true art, Dr. Burroughs said “Oh yes it is!” and she kept on saying it until she was heard…until our work was appreciated. She kept on showing it until nobody dared to look away anymore. Dr. Burroughs cofounded the DuSable Museum and the South Side Community Art Center and she served the City of Chicago on the Park District Board until her death in 2010. Congressman Davis and I have sent a letter to the President of the Park District Board to make this request official. When the Board meets on August 8th we’re expecting a unanimous vote on behalf of this great idea that is long overdue. The sailors who leave from Burroughs Harbor will no doubt be inspired by her story of rough seas navigated with faith and skill. The children who play at Burroughs Harbor Beach will learn her story and realize that sometimes you have to swim against the tide to get where you need to go. Families who come here will be encouraged to look for what is creative in their children. Arts education programs and experiences inspired by Dr. Burroughs’ work should be a regular part of the menu of activities. All who come here will be reminded of the beauty of nature, the importance of tranquility, and the power of art to enrich our lives in ways that money never will. It is our belief that the Park District Board members would never think of doing anything but the right thing! They need to just get it straight on August 8th and vote to name this place Margaret Burroughs Harbor.” ###
07.17.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement at today’s Energy and Power Subcommittee Hearing: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding today’s hearing. Mr. Chairman, during last week’s industry hearing we learned that we face both significant opportunities and challenges as we strive to meet the goal of 36 billion gallons of biofuels by 2022, as mandated by the Renewable Fuels Standard, included in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. And, Mr. Chairman, today more than ever, we see why it is extremely necessary to move our country towards a greater reliance on alternative fuels and renewable sources of energy, as opposed to carbon-intense fossil fuels that emit dangerous levels of greenhouse gases and contribute to climate change. Over the past few years, we have seen an uptick in severe wildfires and extreme weather events associated with global climate change occurring across the country. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the United States has set more than 40,000 hot temperature records this year, and the last 12 months have been the hottest ever recorded in U.S. history. At the end of June, more than 113 million people in the U.S. were in areas under extreme heat advisories, and just last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) declared a federal disaster area in more than 1,000 counties covering 26 states, making it the largest disaster declaration ever made by the agency. Mr. Chairman, today, fully two-thirds of the country is experiencing drought, with states from Kentucky to the Midwest facing severe losses of corn and other crops due to the lack of rain. In fact, currently, at least half of the nation's grazing pastures are in poor or very poor condition, and up to thirty percent of the nation's corn crop is in poor or very poor condition, which may impact the price of food, consumer goods, and ethanol. Additionally, Mr. Chairman, dry conditions are taking a toll on the Great Lakes where water levels in four of the five lakes have plummeted this summer due to high evaporation rates and insufficient rainfall, which of course, may pose significant challenges for those of us who rely on the lakes for drinking water and other economic activities. Even here in here in the Nation’s Capital, two weeks ago, a “derecho” caused over a million homes to lose power in the Washington, D.C. region, while states from Florida to Minnesota, have experienced some of the most damaging floods in history due to torrential downpours. Mr. Chairman, regardless of party, or geography, or one’s dislike of President Obama’s policies, the Members of this subcommittee can no longer afford to stick their heads in the sand and pretend that Mother Nature is not showing us signs that we need to act. Indeed, scientists are also increasingly sounding the alarms and informing us that these natural catastrophes are anticipated consequences of climate change and are expected to continue. Mr. Chairman, at some point, this subcommittee needs to move away from holding partisan, doomed-to-fail political messaging votes, and get on with the business of working together to actually enact policies that will help move this country’s energy policies forward and help move us away from the point of no return in regards to climate change. So I look forward to hearing from today’s Administration witnesses on how we can increase our reliance on alternative fuels, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
07.16.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Today Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement concerning the participation of African-American contractors in the Englewood Flyover Bridge Construction Project: We are here to announce that the Metra Englewood Flyover Project is now on the right track. This morning the Metra Board of Directors voted to approve IHC Construction as the prime contractor for the job. An Ad hoc committee of citizens concerned about minority participation also approved. The voices of the people have finally been heard. IHC Construction President David Rock has agreed to a historic level of African-American Community Outreach, partnering and mentoring in order to identify subcontracting and job opportunities. Local qualified African-American construction companies will receive the support they need to bid on up to 21 percent of the construction cost. That’s more than $19 million worth of work and that’s just to start. We expect to see companies from this community building bridge drainage systems, doing site demolition, wall construction, landscaping, asphalt paving, excavation, pavement marking and more. A community liaison will be appointed to work with all parties to ensure that the opportunities for jobs and contracts are real. A contractor summit will be held in mid-August where technical questions will be addressed to eliminate any misunderstanding regarding contracting requirements and qualifications. For this to work, the commitments made on both sides, by all parties must be kept. We know that the best Stop the Violence Initiative is a Get a Job Initiative. Our young people are smart and talented and hard working. But they need a chance. In Proverbs it is written that “By wisdom a house is built and through understanding it is established.” An understanding between the community and the contractors has been reached and it’s in writing. It will be signed here today. This process began in my Washington Office in October of 2009. I met at the time with officials from Metra and the Railroads and the Secretary of Transportation to make it clear that black contractors could not be looked over when they build the Englewood Flyover. When the community learned that the Metra Board had before it a construction contract that only included one African-American company with a $112 thousand security contract they got mad. They met, they organized and they marched on Metra to get a better deal. The result is a protocol…a framework for community inclusion that can be used in the future by contractors not only in Chicago but throughout this state and nation. The Memorandum of Understanding that I’ve just described could not have happened without the hard work and commitment of many in the African-American community. I want to especially thank Judge Michael Stuttley, Hal Baskin and Henry English for their expertise and dedication. They were powerful and they were precise in their mission. They realize that there is an emergency in the African-American community and they were determined to stand together. Congressmen Davis and Jackson who put their feet in the street and their leadership on the line for this project were also an important of this achievement. Aldermen Sawyer, Brookins and Cochran and Father Michael Pfleger were out front from the beginning. Senators Hunter and Collins sent their staff to meet and march when they were in Springfield. I want to thank IHC President David Rock for working with the community. He chose to be part of the solution and not a part of the problem. So now we’re going to build a bridge that is not just a gigantic block of cement. We are building a bridge to the equal opportunity that this nation promises. We are building a bridge to African-American inclusion in future construction work and professional services across the city and nation. We are building relationships that we believe will go beyond Englewood…beyond this one project. I believe the flyover can help our people to cross over the barricades that have blocked progress in the building trades for decades. I believe, if all parties continue to act in good faith, the Englewood Flyover can truly be a bridge for the future. ### Click to read the Rush Protocols
06.28.2012	Washington — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement about today’s U.S. Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PL 111-148): “I am elated by the Supreme Court’s decision today. This ruling is truly a victory for all Americans and a validation of the separation of powers. I personally and especially commend President Obama for his extraordinary leadership and courage in making health care a national priority and then-Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her masterful maneuverings of the legislation through the U.S. Congress. “Rather than erase arguably our country’s greatest achievement in several decades to equalize choice, access, and quality of health care for all Americans, the highest court in the land instead affirmed the right of our citizens to obtain medical care. The Supreme Court rightly concluded that it is not its place to question Congress’s wisdom when it comes to how quality and affordable health care is paid for and delivered to as many Americans as possible. “As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I participated intensively in long, grueling legislative hearings and markups, and offered several amendments to the bill that ultimately became law. As a result of my amendments, low income and underinsured Americans will enjoy comprehensive, continuous health care, including emergency and trauma care, through the Community-Based Collaborative Care Network Program. And as a result of my introduction and tireless advocacy of the Melanie Blocker Stokes Mom's Opportunity to Access Health, Education, Research, and Support for Postpartum Depression Act, mothers of newborns will be able to receive screening and treatment for suicidal depression that too often stalks far too many susceptible new mothers. “Today’s victory does not mean we are done. Though we have achieved much with this legislation, our fight is not over. We must still reform and expand the 340(b) program to make prescription drugs more affordable and we must do more to train our young people to help fill the gaps in our healthcare system. When enacted these improvements will make our healthcare system even stronger. “As a result of the Affordable Care Act, never again will Americans have to worry about lack of coverage for any pre-existing conditions. Never again will being a woman lead to higher and discriminatory health care costs. Never again will seniors on limited means have to choose between expensive prescription drugs or life’s other necessities. And, never again will a person’s place of residence in an economically distressed or a medically-underserved community mean necessarily that health care services will be priced out of reach or be located too far away to access conveniently and affordably. “As we celebrate our historic accomplishments we must also remember that now the fight begins to make sure that these benefits are fully implemented. And I say to the American people and especially to my constituents in First Congressional District of Illinois: I will stand strong and continue to fight on your behalf to improve the quality of life for you and your family. ###
06.20.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced an amendment to H.R. 4480, the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act. Rush’s amendment ensures that this bill helps lower gasoline prices and create jobs. Rush made the following statement from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of his amendment: “Mr. Speaker, while gas prices have subsided over the past few months, Americans are still very concerned about the issue of jobs and high unemployment. In my district and in the African-American community, in general, joblessness is far higher than the national average with some communities experiencing unemployment rates of up to 50 percent. Yet, even with these staggering figures, we are here today debating a bill that would do absolutely nothing to address this critical issue. Mr. Speaker, the House will only be in session a little over 20 more days before the August recess, and after that, the House will barely be in session until after the election. During this limited time we should be focusing on legislation that would create jobs and move America towards a smarter energy future that is less vulnerable to the whims of the world oil market. However, there is nothing in H.R. 4480 that would do anything to address the issues most important to the American people: jobs or gas prices. Mr. Speaker, the amendment I am offering today gets right to the heart of this issue and simply states: ‘Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall make a determination as to whether implementation of this Act is projected to lower gasoline prices or create jobs in the United States within 10 years.’ However, if the administrator of the EIA determines that implementation of this Act is not projected to lower gasoline prices or create jobs within 10 years, then the most egregious provisions of this bill, Sections 205 and 206, which attack existing Clean Air Act protections, would sunset and would cease to be in effect. Mr. Speaker, provisions in this bill, such as Title II, the Gasoline Regulations Act, use the backdrop of high unemployment and fluctuating gas prices as a ruse to once again attack the Environmental Protection Agency and the Clean Air Act, without doing a single thing to actually reduce the cost that Americans are paying at the pump pr deliver more jobs to the American people. Mr. Speaker, Congress should not remove longstanding Clean Air Act requirements for EPA to set ambient air quality standards at the level necessary to protect human health. Nor should the majority attempt to block and delay several EPA air quality and public health protections under the guise of falsely claiming that these attacks on EPA would actually create jobs or reduce gas prices. Time and again over the past year and a half this Congress, under the majority party’s leadership, has voted to roll back provisions of the Clean Air Act at the behest of a few of the nation’s dirtiest air polluters. And once again I urge my Republican colleagues to stand with the American people and allow the agency and laws that we have put in place to protect the public health to do the job that Congress established them to do. I urge all of my colleagues to vote for the Rush amendment and with that I yield back the balance of my time. ###
06.20.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Rush spoke today in opposition to H.R. 4480, the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act. The text of his statement is below: “Mr. Speaker, since the beginning of the 112th Congress, we have held over 30 Energy & Power subcommittee and joint subcommittee hearings. We have held over a dozen subcommittee and full committee markups, and including H.R. 4480, which we will vote on today, we have had ten bills that originated from the Energy & Power Subcommittee that have been voted on by the full House. Yet from all of that time and effort, Mr. Speaker, the Energy & Power Subcommittee has produced exactly one substantive bill, let me repeat: exactly one significant bill, the Pipeline Safety Reauthorization Act, that has actually become law. Mr. Speaker, instead of focusing our efforts on trying to create the clean energy jobs of the 21st Century, the majority party has spent the past 18 months lobbing partisan attacks against the EPA and the Clean Air Act in order to appease Big Oil and some of the more extreme constituencies that the Republican Party represents. Mr. Speaker, most Americans would like to see us utilizing our time working in a bipartisan manner to address critical issues, such as access to jobs, clean air, and clean water, less dependence on foreign oil, enhanced energy efficiency measures, and an increased reliance on the cleaner and renewable energy sources of the future. Instead, here we are again debating yet another bill that would continue the concerted effort by the majority party to weaken the authority of the EPA and to delegitimize the agency’s regulations as unnecessary “job killers”. Mr. Speaker, with a little over 20 legislative days left before the August recess we should be focusing our limited time on legislation that would create jobs and move America toward a smarter energy future that is less vulnerable to the whims of the world oil market. However, nothing in H.R. 4480 accomplishes that. The most offensive provision of this bill, the Gasoline Regulations Act, would fundamentally change a cornerstone of public health law, the Clean Air Act and I ask my colleagues: to what end? This bill will not create any jobs but rather would block EPA rules to make the fuel we put into our cars cleaner, and also block rules that would cut toxic air pollution from refineries. This bill blocks EPA from requiring new refineries from cutting carbon pollution that causes climate change, and it even blocks the agency from revising the national air quality standard for ozone to reflect the best-available science and medical evidence about how much ozone is safe to breathe without serious health effects. Mr. Speaker, the Clean Air Act already ensures that states and localities take costs into consideration when deciding how to meet national air quality standards, but cost should not be a factor when deciding how much pollution the experts believe is safe for a child to breathe without experiencing an asthma attack. Mr. Speaker, the truth is H.R. 4480 isn’t really about jobs or lowering gasoline prices, but instead is an excuse to push a profoundly anti-environmental agenda and provide oil companies with more items from their election-year wish-list. I oppose this bill because it would strike at the heart of the Clean Air Act, and would not provide any tangible benefits to the American people and I urge all of my colleagues to oppose it as well. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
06.20.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Rush spoke today in opposition to the Republican Motion to Instruct Conferees on H.R. 4348, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). The text of his statement is below: “Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong opposition to the Motion to Instruct Conferees on H.R. 4348. Mr. Speaker, at a time when we are facing historic levels of joblessness in the African-American and other communities, Republicans are playing chicken with the transportation bill, which is intended to provide American jobs and repair our aging infrastructure, not contaminate American communities. This motion to instruct contains a dangerous provision that will allow more poison, disease, and death from one of our nation’s biggest waste products: coal ash. Coal ash is the waste leftover after thousands of tons of coal are burned at coal-fired power plants and it is laden with toxins, such as mercury, arsenic, cadmium, chromium and lead. These are pollutants that can cause cancer, organ disease, breathing problems, neurological damage, developmental problems and even death. Mr. Speaker, Title V of H.R. 4348 gives companies an unprecedented ability to pollute under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, even though EPA found some coal ash ponds pose a one in 50 risk of cancer related to residents drinking arsenic‐contaminated water — a risk 2000 times EPA’s regulatory goal. Dangerous coal ash disposal affects thousands of U.S. communities, but research informs us that income and race remain strong predictors of the amount of pollution that Americans face. The majority of coal ash is disposed in grossly inadequate dumpsites, which are often located in low-income communities, disproportionately impacting those who are least equipped to respond to water contamination and the onslaught of toxic dust. Mr. Speaker, low-income citizens are more likely to rely on groundwater supplies and less likely to have access to medical insurance and healthcare. Yet, Title V of HR 4348 fails to protect communities and their drinking water from toxic coal ash or from another massive spill like the disaster that occurred in Kingston, Tennessee in 2008. During this catastrophe, a billion gallons of coal ash damaged two dozen homes and destroyed 300 acres when the side of a coal ash dumpsite burst and flooded the nearby countryside. Yet, Title V protects utility profits by creating a public health loophole and shielding utilities from their responsibility to operate dumps safely and adequately clean up sites that they, themselves, have contaminated. In fact, EPA and public interest groups have uncovered coal ash contaminating nearby rivers, lakes, streams, aquifers and drinking waters at nearly 200 sites nationwide. Illinois alone produces more than 4.4 million tons of coal ash annually and at least 19 coal ash dumpsites have contaminated local water supplies. Additionally, every day it’s in operation, the SS Badger, a coal-fired steamship, dumps four tons of coal ash into Lake Michigan — Chicago’s primary water supply. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote against this Motion to Instruct and put the welfare of the American people before the profits of a few dirty polluters and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
06.06.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement this morning during the opening of a Subcommittee on Energy and Power hearing on EPA Enforcement Priorities and Practices. Rush, the ranking Democratic member of the subcommittee, blasts those who he says are trying to dismantle the EPA and to undo progress made in cleaning up the environment: Mr. Chairman, since the beginning of the 112th Congress, by my count we have had over 30 Energy & Power subcommittee and joint subcommittee hearings. We have held over a dozen subcommittee and full committee markups, and we have had nine bills that originated from this subcommittee that have been voted on by the full House. Yet from all of that time and effort, this subcommittee has produced exactly one bill, let me repeat: exactly one bill, the Pipeline Safety Reauthorization Act, that has actually become law. Mr. Chairman, while attacks on the EPA and the Clean Air Act may appease some of the more extreme constituencies that the majority side represents, most Americans would like to see us working in a bipartisan manner to address critical issues, such as access to jobs, clean air, and clean water, less dependence on foreign oil, enhanced energy efficiency measures, and an increased reliance on the cleaner and renewable energy sources of the future. And yet, here we are again, putting on a dog and pony show for the cameras, holding a hearing basically designed to highlight the partial statement of a single former EPA staffer, who no longer even works for the agency. While today’s hearing may provide my Republican colleagues with yet another opportunity to try and embarrass the Obama Administration, we all know that absolutely nothing, not a single constructive policy, will come out of today’s hearing. And with all due respect to the witnesses who will be testifying here today, I believe that all of our time would be better served by working in a bipartisan way to enact policy that may someday actually move this country’s energy policy forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield the balance of my time to my friend from Texas, Mr. Green.
05.17.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) spoke in opposition to the motion to instruct conferees on H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II. The motion to instruct conferees would mandate the approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, a position that endangers the passage of the entire bill. Rush made the following statement from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: I want to thank the ranking member of the full committee for recognizing me. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this motion to instruct. A mandatory approval of the Keystone XL pipeline does not belong in our transportation bill. This provision jeopardizes the entire transportation bill and all of the American jobs that the transportation bill will provide and produce. The southern portion of the Keystone XL pipeline from Oklahoma to the gulf is already moving forward with the President's support, but the northern portion does not yet have a final route through the State of Nebraska. President Obama has made it clear that he will not short-circuit the normal approval process and deprive the American people of their opportunity and their right to have input just to benefit a foreign company and foreign interests. As it stands now, it is very unclear if this project would benefit the hard-pressed communities of this Nation, such as the one that I represent, with jobs and contracts and other economic opportunities that we have been hearing so much about and that has been bandied about by the proponents of this pipeline. We desperately need jobs and contracts and economic opportunity, but we have no guarantees that this XL pipeline will produce the same. So, regardless of whether you believe this pipeline should be built or not, including the Keystone XL pipeline approval — mandatory approval, I might add — in the transportation bill, which the President already promised he will veto, it may not necessarily further the pipeline, but it may doom the same. It may doom the entire transportation bill. If you care about American jobs, then the number one priority should be to pass the transportation bill all by itself. Pass the transportation bill to create and preserve American jobs for the American people. Don't burden the jobs-producing transportation bill with extraneous gimmicks and extraneous gestures. The passage of this motion to instruct conferees will be a stumbling stone for Keystone. ###
04.19.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) delivered the following opening statement at a House Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade subcommittee hearing examining the current state of American-based manufacturing and its importance to increasing job creation and American trade and exports: Good morning, Madam Chair Bono Mack and Ranking Member Butterfield. Thank you for calling this important hearing. I welcome the Honorable John Bryson to our subcommittee. It is a great privilege for us to have you here with us today. This is the second manufacturing-themed hearing that has been convened in the 112th Congress by this subcommittee. Addressing manufacturing issues is not new to this subcommittee. America’s manufacturing sector is the foundation of our Nation’s economy. Consider the fact that in 2009, the manufacturing sector employed more than 11.5 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, that number, though significant, is not as good as it could be when you consider that 10 years ago, America’s manufacturing sector employed 17.3 million people. That means our Nation actually lost 5.8 million jobs in the decade between 1999 and 2009. If you review the recent history of unemployment, you will see that this decline began in 2000 and continued through 2009, culminating in staggering losses of approximately 50,000 factories and millions of manufacturing jobs. Since 2000, U.S. production of manufactured goods actually declined by five percent. This decline has severely and negatively impacted manufacturing-based job creation and seriously impaired those communities that were built and have grown up (over decades and across generations) around these lost and hobbled manufacturing plants and facilities. Congress passed legislation to help restore and reposition our Nation’s manufacturing capacity so that American workers can better compete in today’s global economy. Yet today, the U.S. is still fighting its way through a global financial crisis as we face fierce and “win-at-all-costs” competition from other industrialized nations as well as emerging and developing countries. A significant number of the world’s developing countries have designed and implemented five- or ten-year strategic plans. These plans have been designed to enable their associated economies to compete globally through the exportation of goods to ours and other markets. In recent years for example, the U.S. actually lost market share in both mature and in key emerging industries to rapidly-growing export countries like China and India. For more than 100 years the U.S. ranked number one in the world in terms of manufacturing output — that is inclusive of the Midwest which, as you know, has historically depended heavily on manufacturing and agriculture to sustain a viable and strong economy. Last year, for the first time, the U.S. gave up its leading trading position to China, which was reflected in the displacement of more than 2.3 million U.S. jobs. Ladies and Gentlemen, that should be a wake-up call to us all. I firmly believe that the federal government must do all that it can to ensure our trading partners “play by the rules” to foster sustainable employment growth and to protect our companies’ ability to play and to prosper in a fair marketplace. If the U.S. does not act aggressively NOW, our steady decline will only steepen and quicken. We simply cannot allow that to happen. In closing, let me commend the President for declaring that exportation of manufactured products is a national priority and for his bold and significant steps to strengthen our manufacturing sector. Democratic members of the House have also attempted to play a key role as part of their “MAKE IT IN AMERICA” legislative campaign to introduce legislation to reduce our growing lack and deficits in necessary technical skills, address worker scarcity in manufacturing sectors trying to work their ways around the challenges associated with a graying workforce, and to retrain U.S. workers seeking employment for manufacturing-related jobs that are currently in higher demand. I hope that my Republican friends will finally come with an “action plan” instead of a “talking plan.” I am looking forwarding to hearing from witnesses. With that, I yield back the balance of my time. Thank you. ###
04.17.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following opening remarks during a hearing on H.R. 4221, The Increasing American Jobs Through Greater Exports to Africa Act: Good afternoon Chairman Chris Smith, Ranking Member Karen Bass, and all the other subcommittee members. Thank you for allowing me to participate in this hearing on “The Increasing American Jobs through Greater Exports to Africa Act of 2012.” I am proud to join Chairman Smith as coauthor of this bill to develop a comprehensive strategy to create American jobs by increasing exports of U.S. goods and services to Africa by at least 200 percent in real dollar value over the next ten years. Chairman Smith, I commend you and your staff for your leadership on this issue, especially for the bipartisan manner in which we worked together during the process of drafting this legislation. This is the way Congress should work. I also thank Senator Dick Durbin, Senator John Boozman, Senator Benjamin Cardin, and Senator Christopher Coons for championing S. 2215, which carries the same title. I welcome Ambassador Johnnie Carson and Ms. Florizelle Liser. I am happy to see you and I commend you for your efforts to increase trade and investment in Africa. This bill is the right bill for these challenging economic times. The U.S. has talked for too long about Africa as the next trade and investment frontier. The future of Africa is NOW and it is time to act! We now have a tremendous opportunity to build mutually beneficial policies that create jobs and economic growth on both continents. For a long time, Africa has been portrayed exclusively as a war-riddled continent filled with dictators, poverty, and disease. Yet the true story of its country-by-country reawakening and revival, and the story of many great successes remains untold. Seven out the ten fastest growing economies are today in Africa. Africa has an expanding middle class. Africa has millions of consumers who desire American products. Africa also needs increased investments in its rapidly growing infrastructure that will continue to power its expansion and overall growth. During my travels to African countries I often hear from African leaders, business people, and consumers that they prefer products made in America. They talk about the quality of our products, their reliability, our innovative technologies, and they express appreciation for our labor and environmental standards. But we are not reacting! Meanwhile, they are being offered Chinese financing. As one African Ambassador told me once, “If you cannot have what you love, you end up loving what you have” and they have China. It is time to ACT! This legislation will help to foster a greater understanding among U.S. businesses and financial communities about the opportunities that exist throughout Africa. The U.S. investment opportunities in Africa outside of the energy and mineral sectors hold a great potential to increase jobs in Africa, boost income earning power, and help diversify African economies, thus making Africa stronger as a market for U.S. goods and services. Poverty and hunger are still widespread problems, but Africa’s growing middle class is creating business and investment opportunities that are among the best in the world. With the right trade policy in place we can unlock the potential of a thriving private sector and lift millions out of poverty. The tools available to U.S. companies to competitively compete in Africa are scattered, difficult to access, and not effectively coordinated. The competition for jobs is real. We need to think more strategically and be more innovative as to how we can best support our investors in Africa. H.R. 4221 “The Increasing American Jobs through Greater Exports to Africa Act of 2012” has been introduced for that purpose. If enacted, this legislation will create an estimated 315,000 jobs in the U.S. Among other things, the bill will create a Special White House Africa Strategy coordinator to ensure government agencies are maximizing resources to help U.S. companies penetrate and expand their current presence in existing African markets. The bill includes language from H.R. 656 — The African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011 (AIDA), that I introduced last Congress, positioning the U.S African Diaspora to spur African Economic Growth. When I introduced AIDA social media responded and our Facebook group gained close to 10 thousand members in less than a week. More than one hundred African immigrant groups signed a petition in support of this initiative. I have not met with a single African who did not express the desire to contribute to the development of the African continent. Many are willing to represent American firms. This will help turn brain drain into brain flow, charting a new paradigm for strengthening U.S.–Africa Relations in the 21st century. It also marks the first step towards unleashing Africa’s vast potential through win-win trade and investment opportunities, a reflection of history and destiny shared between the U.S. and Africa. This bill will help reduce non-trade barriers, encourage regional integration of African countries, increase U.S. exports, and positively affect United States trade, export, and labor initiatives. Furthermore, passage of this legislation will ensure that U.S. policy is contributing meaningfully to the positive transformation of Africa, enabling it to progress towards full integration into the twenty-first century world economy — not only as a supplier of raw materials and resources but as a full participant in international supply and distribution chains. The futures of the African and American economies are intertwined. The future is NOW. We MUST act NOW! I am looking forward to hearing your testimonies. Thank you. ###
04.02.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) is urging Attorney General Eric Holder to issue federal regulations that would remove children from adult prisons and jails. The Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA), passed by Congress in 2003 is yet to be fully implemented. The purpose of the Act is to stop sexual violence behind bars. One of the main concerns is the risk youth face when housed in adult prisons and jails. “When we throw children and youth into adult prison we are in effect throwing them away,” Rush said. “The myth of a growing population of juvenile super-predators who must be treated like adults by our criminal justice system is just that…a myth with no basis in fact. What the facts do show is that youth, 18 and younger are 1 percent of the adult prison population but 21 percent of the victims of sexual violence.” Rush joined more than two dozen members of the U.S. House of Representatives in writing a letter that urged the Attorney General to issue a final rule that protects juvenile offenders by calling for the removal of all under-18 youth from adult prisons and jails. Federal studies show that on any given night in America, ten thousand children are held in adult jails and prisons. They are 36 times more likely to commit suicide than youth in juvenile detention facilities. “The idea that a young person that makes a mistake is equal to an adult that makes a mistake is just not logical” Rush said. “How can we think of ourselves as a great nation when we embrace public policy that ensures the sexual abuse of children? It has to end.” ### A copy of the letter may be found here.
03.30.2012	CONTACT: Rev. Stanley Watkins (202) 225-4372 office Stanley.Watkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO — Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement honoring Rev. Addie Wyatt: I am saddened to learn of the passing of a friend and counselor, the Rev. Addie Wyatt. She was one of the most pivotal labor, civil rights and religious leaders of the latter half of the 20th century. Rev. Wyatt was a humanitarian and a powerful, yet passionate voice for the rights of women, African-Americans and all others she believed were denied the opportunity to live the American dream. Rev. Wyatt, along with her late husband, the Rev. Claude Wyatt, played an important role in my development. I vividly recall spending so many sessions at their home, where they poured their wisdom and counsel into me. Her courage, steadfastness and intellect is the foundation on which many of us still stand. Rev. Wyatt, one of our nation's foremost labor leaders, began her labor involvement in the early 1950s. She was elected vice president of her local, UPWA Local 56, in 1953. She later became an international representative, before being tapped in 1976 as the first female international vice president of the United Food and Commercial Workers in 1976. Eleanor Roosevelt appointed her to serve on the Labor Legislation Committee of President John F. Kennedy’s Commission on the Status of Women, which presented its report in 1963. In 1974, she helped found the Coalition of Labor Union Women and delivered the keynote address at the founding meeting to 3,200 participants. Wyatt was a founding member of the National Organization for Women and a leader in the struggle for an Equal Rights Amendment. She was named one of Time's Women of the Year in 1976 and received a similar honor from The Ladies Home Journal in 1977. Ebony named her one of the 100 most influential black Americans from 1980 to 1984. Rev. Wyatt was co-founder, with her late husband, of the Vernon Park Church of God on the South Side. They also founded the Wyatt Choral Ensemble in 1944. She was ordained a minister in 1955 and had a strong working relationship with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. She helped found Operation Breadbasket and served on the board of Operation PUSH. Rev. Wyatt’s life was a beacon of light for all to observe. On behalf of my wife Carolyn and all the citizens of the First Congressional District of Illinois, I offer our prayers, support and love to her son, Claude III, sister Maude McKay, her grandchildren, friends and Vernon Park Church of God family. May her soul rest in peace and thank God He has welcomed her home. ###
03.28.2012	CONTACT: Rev. Stanley Watkins (202) 225-4372 office Stanley.Watkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON — Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) delivered the following statement on the House floor today to emphasize the issue of racial profiling and its consequences: Mr. Speaker, the death of Trayvon Martin is an American tragedy. Too often this violent act is repeated in the streets of our nation. Racial profiling has to stop. Just because someone wears a hoodie, does not make them a hoodlum. Just because someone is young and wears a hoodie does not make them a hoodlum. Just because someone is a young black male and wears a hoodie does not make them a hoodlum. A hood on the head does not mean a hood in the head. I applaud the young people across this nation who are making a statement about hoodies and the real hoodlums particularly those who tread on our laws wearing official or quasi-official cloaks. The Bible teaches us in Micah 6:6-8, these words, “He has showed you, O man, what is good; and what does the LORD require of you, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?” And in the New Testament, Luke 4:18-20 teaches us these words: “The Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to proclaim the good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind, to set the oppressed free.” I urge all who hear these words to heed this lesson. May God bless Trayvon Martin’s soul, his parents and family, and may God bless us all. ###
03.20.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) is proud to join with U.S. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) in the introduction of bipartisan legislation entitled, The Increasing American Jobs through Greater Exports to Africa Act of 2012. The bill will help to enhance America’s business positioning throughout the continent of Africa by improving communication and coordination between U.S. government agencies and departments. It will establish clear cut strategic goals, and help create an environment that encourages private investment. “This bill is the right bill for these challenging economic times,” Rep. Rush said. “The US has talked for too long about Africa as the next trade and investment frontier. Meanwhile, American businesses are facing serious competition in continental African markets. We now have a tremendous opportunity to build mutually beneficial policies that create jobs and economic growth on both continents. Sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, comprises some of the fastest growing economies in the world. Over the next five years, 7 of the world’s 10 fastest-growing economies will come from this region. In 2008, Africa’s purchasing power reached $860 billion with a projection to grow upwards of $1.4 trillion in the next 10 years.” The bill, including language from H.R.656—The African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011, that was introduced by Rush last year—is designed to help position American investors to benefit from the economic growth that Africa now experiences. “For a long time, Africa has been portrayed only as a continent riddled with war, dictatorship, poverty, and disease,” Rush said. “The true story of its country-by-country reawakening and revival, the story of many great successes remains untold. This legislation will help to change those misguided perceptions and foster a greater understanding among U.S. business and financial communities of the opportunities that exist throughout Africa. Other noted and recognized commentators on US-Africa trade and commercial relations immediately supported the introduction of Rep. Rush’s legislation. Stephen Hayes, the President and CEO, Corporate Council on Africa made the following comments: “Africa has never been more important to the US economy than it is now. The opportunities in the African marketplace are growing daily, and if the American private sector, working with our Government, does not take advantage of these opportunities jobs will be lost for American workers and manufacturers to those countries that do already understand the value of the American marketplace. The American product is highly respected throughout the fifty-four nations of Africa and we must be able to compete. To be able to compete we must have a far more active and greater presence throughout the continent.” Rosa Whitaker, President and CEO of the Whitaker Group also commented. Whitaker served as the First Assistant Trade Representative on Africa.“There are several US government agencies with similar mandates to support US investment in Africa—OPIC, Ex-Im, Department of Commerce—but our experience on the ground in Africa suggests that a more harmonized, coherent approach is necessary to give US companies a leading edge. Africa is now widely recognized as one of the last true “frontier markets”, and this bill will provide US companies with much-needed support to seize opportunities in these markets.” Liesl Riddle, PhD, Associate Dean for MBA Programs and Associate Professor of International Business and International Affairs, School of Business, George Washington University commented: “Diaspora investment catalyzed China and India into emerging market status. Today African diasporans in the United States are seeking ways to invest in Africa to further economic and social development across the Continent. Passage of this bill will provide many of the tools necessary to successfully channel the Diaspora’s potential for development into Africa, while creating American jobs and opportunity in some of the fastest growing markets of the twenty-first century.” Harry C. Alford, President/CEO National Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc, said: “This bill gets 100% support from the National Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc. Not only is it great with the opportunities it presents; it is overdue. We are playing “catch up in Africa and tools like this are just what we need. Also, there are more than 200 million people of African Descent (members of the African Diaspora) who are poised to interact with Africa via trade and investment. This bill, if enacted will encourage them to become more active.” In closing, Rep Rush said, “My bill will help reduce non-trade barriers, encourage regional integration of African countries, increase U.S exports, and positively affect United States trade, export and labor initiatives. Furthermore, passage of this legislation will ensure that U.S. policy is contributing meaningfully to the positive transformation of Africa, enabling it to progress towards full integration into the twenty-first century world economy—not only as a supplier of raw materials and resources but as full participants in international supply and distribution chains.” A companion bill has been introduced by Senators Durbin, Boozman and Coons. ###
03.16.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the latest data compiled by federal agencies on the impact of President Obama’s Health Care Reform Legislation for residents of the First Congressional District. After two years the Affordable Care Act has yielded the following results: 5,000 young adults in the district now have health insurance. 4,100 seniors in the district received prescription drug discounts worth $2.5 million, an average discount of $610 per senior. 65,000 seniors in the district received Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. 20,000 children and 90,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. 480 small businesses in the district received tax credits to help maintain or expand health care coverage for their employees. $13.7 million in public health grants have been given to community health centers, hospitals, doctors, and other healthcare providers in the district to improve the community’s health. 8,000 to 38,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. “Healthcare reform is already helping my constituents,” Rush said, “The latest data demonstrates concrete benefits to young adults, seniors and small businesses. This is an important piece of legislation that has real and immediate impact on the lives of people. And this is just the beginning.” ### *This analysis is based upon U.S. Census Data, Medicare enrollment data from the Department of Health and Human Services, the Internal Revenue Service and the Kaiser Family Foundation’s Employer Health Benefits Survey. It was compiled as a staff report from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.
03.08.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today called on Energy Secretary Steven Chu to explain the recent increase in gasoline prices. Rush, the ranking Democratic member of the House subcommittee on Energy and Power, made the following remarks at the opening of the hearing on the Department of Energy Budget: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you Mr. Secretary for being here today. Mr. Secretary, it is always a pleasure having you appear before our subcommittee and I must commend you for your knowledge, expertise, and leadership in directing such an important agency at such a critical time in our nation’s history. As you know, high gas prices are on the minds of every American and although we all understand that fuel prices are influenced by a variety of geopolitical factors, to hear my Republican colleagues tell it, it is precisely the Obama Administration’s energy policies that are contributing to these sky high prices. Of course, this logic does not explain why gas prices skyrocketed from just over $1.50 a gallon in 2001 when President Bush first took office, to just under $4.00 a gallon in the spring of 2008 before the Bush recession took our economy over the cliff, but that’s an argument for another time. Mr. Secretary, as the person who heads the Energy Department, I would like to hear your thoughts on how the Obama Administration’s policies have helped American consumers, through fuel efficiency measures, the promotion of renewable sources of energy, and other forward-thinking policies that are necessary to move America forward and wean us off of imported oil. I would also like to get your comments on the record regarding the levels of fuel consumption, importation of foreign oil, and oil and gas production during the Obama Administration. The research I have seen shows that under President Obama we are importing less oil now than in any time in the past 13 years. Research also shows that we are producing more oil now than we were at any time in the last eight years. In fact, since President Obama opened up millions of new acres for oil and gas exploration, the U.S. now has more working oil and gas rigs than the rest of the world combined. Additionally, your agency recently reported that average fuel demand has actually dropped 6.7 percent as compared to the same time last year. Yet despite all of these facts, gas prices have continued to climb much faster and far earlier than in previous years, and of course, President Obama’s opponents are using this as a way to make political hay against the Administration’s policies, as you will hear repeatedly here today. So Mr. Secretary, I welcome you here today and I look forward to your testimony to set the record straight and inform the public of the true benefits of having an energy policy that is forward-looking and will help us plan ahead for the future so Congress is not having this same finger-pointing debate 10, 20, or 30 years down the road. Thank you Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time. ###
03.06.2012	CONTACT: Rev. Stanley Watkins (202) 225-4372 office Stanley.Watkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement on the death of Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ) today: “It is with profound sadness that I have learned of the passing of my close friend and colleague, Rep. Donald Payne. We were the best of friends and travelled extensively together. We shared stories about our youthful involvement in the civil rights movement; he in the NAACP and I in the Black Panther Party. He was a leader and statesman who I greatly admired and respected. Donald was not only a national leader, he was also an international leader. We shared a deep-seated and profound love for Sub-Saharan Africa and the African Diaspora. He was a teacher and leader for me on African matters. As the first African-American to be elected to Congress from the State of New Jersey, as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Human Rights Rep. Payne was instrumental in leading the legislative fight to free political prisoners in Ethiopia, urging the removal of the dictatorial president of the Ivory Coast, providing financial relief to Haiti after the earthquake in 2010 and focusing the world’s attention on the genocide in Darfur. Rep. Payne was a strong and passionate advocate for humanitarian relief. As recently as last week he was recognized by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) which announced the creation of the Donald Payne Development Fellowship, to attract outstanding young people to careers in international development. As Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) since 2010, Rep. Payne sought to continue expanding the CBCF’s vision internationally. He looked to partner with African nations in an effort to intersect the paths of African-Americans and Africans on the issues, challenges and opportunities impacting us in education, health, economic, social and political empowerment. My wife Carolyn and the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois join with me in extending our prayers and support to the family, friends, staff and constituents of a brother beloved, Rep. Donald Payne.” ###
03.05.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will receive the Congressional Leadership Award from the National Urban League on Tuesday, March 6, 2012. The honor recognizes Rush’s ongoing commitment to urban youth and his cosponsorship of the Urban Jobs Act of 2011. In May Congressman Rush joined more than a thousand young people from across the nation in a March on Washington for Jobs. “I want to thank the Urban League for this honor. One of the first jobs I had as a young man came through the Chicago Urban League,” Rush said. “What’s at stake is literally the future of our nation. Work, and the discipline that comes with it, is a habit that must be learned by our youth. Without jobs our young people might get into the habit of not working. They might grow to accept unemployment. It would be tragic if our nation were to lose the energy and imagination of this generation because we fail to find a way to put them to work. I share the National Urban League’s ongoing commitment to the employment and education of our nation’s youth. The Awards reception will take place from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at the Art and Soul Restaurant, 415 New Jersey Ave NW, Washington D.C. ###
02.29.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement about the deal to shut down Coal-Fired Power Plants in Chicago. Rush is the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power in the United States House of Representatives: “Finally we can breathe a sigh of relief that there appears to be an actual plan in place to close the two coal-fired power plants that have polluted the air in Chicago neighborhoods for so long. The Fisk and Crawford Plants are archaic relics of a bygone era before science proved the negative health consequences of primary particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and the fine particle pollutants they form. Kudos to Mayor Emanuel for closing the deal that will put these plants in mothballs once and for all. It is a deal that has been many years in the works. Closing these plants was a major issue that I fought for going back to my years as an alderman. The City of Chicago owes a special debt of gratitude to Forty-ninth ward Alderman Joe Moore and the Chicago Clean Power Coalition who have been unwavering in their advocacy. The result will no doubt be cleaner air and longer lives for our citizens. The deal is a testament to what can happen when we join, as a community, in a determined effort to promote the public good.” ###
02.23.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will convene a workshop on Friday, February 24th, designed to help south suburban community leaders apply for Federal Pipeline Safety grants. The meeting will be an Illinois/Washington teleconference connecting south suburban leaders with experts at the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). It will be held from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at the Southwest Education Center of Moraine Valley Community College, 17900 S. 94th Avenue, Tinley Park, IL 60487-6009. The Technical Assistance Grants provide federal funds that enable communities to analyze local pipeline safety issues, promote public awareness and encourage the creation of technology driven solutions like the conversion of paper maps into electronic formatting. “Will County is a major hub in the United States natural gas pipeline grid,” Congressman Rush explained, “Underneath our community schools, churches, stores, homes and factories there is an invisible superhighway where pipelines from Canada and the Gulf of Mexico meet and fan out through the entire Midwest. Issues of pipeline safety are critically important and must not be ignored.” Local communities can apply for grants up to $50,000 to assist their pipeline safety efforts. ###
02.15.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced an amendment to the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, Title 14 of the American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act of 2012 today. The Keystone XL Pipeline Act would expedite the permit for the Pipeline. Rush’s amendment seeks to protect property owners from losing their land through the abusive use of eminent domain laws in connection with Keystone pipeline construction. Rush made the following statement from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: Mr. Chairman, why is it that the proponents of this bill are smiling and smirking while walking around this Capitol? It's because this bill requires the hasty approval of an unprecedented permit for the Keystone XL pipeline. They're smiling and smirking because their friends, the Big Oil companies, are big winners with this bill while the little people, the private property owners along the path of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, will be the big losers. Mr. Chairman, people might be surprised to learn that TransCanada has been bullying the American people—American landowners—and has been pressuring them to allow the company to build a pipeline through their land. In fact, during the subcommittee hearing, we heard testimony from witnesses who live along the path near the proposed route of this pipeline that TransCanada is doing just that—bullying them. They don't even have a permit to build the pipeline, yet we are told that they are threatening American citizens with eminent domain, basically telling people, If you don't give us access to your land, if you don't give us your land, then we're going to take it. Mr. Chairman, this is wrong. This is wrong. This is wrong. Why are we rewarding a private foreign company that is trying to intimidate and coerce American citizens with this regulatory earmark? In order to protect private property owners along the path of this pipeline, I am offering an amendment that will restrict the use of eminent domain. My amendment requires that a permit for this pipeline would only be issued if it prohibits the use of eminent domain to take someone's private property against his will. Mr. Chairman, my office was in contact with a Nebraska rancher by the name of Randy Thompson, who wrote me a letter dated February 9, and I want to read an excerpt of it for my colleagues. He wrote: "Dear Congressman Rush, I would like to express to you, sir, my concerns about the bill introduced by Representative Terry to fast-forward the permitting process for the Keystone XL pipeline. It seems inherently wrong to me that a foreign corporation can actually force American citizens to forfeit their individual property rights through the use of eminent domain. With the denial of a permit, TransCanada has, for the time being, suspended their land acquisition process in the State of Nebraska. I can assure you, however, that they will be back on our doorsteps with a vengeance once a new route has been determined and a permit has been granted. It appears to me that some Members of Congress are all too eager to subsidize the Big Oil companies, not only with our tax dollars, but now with land that belongs to American citizens." Mr. Chairman, we have a duty to protect our citizens from being bullied into giving up their land against their will for the gain of private foreign companies. Let us wipe the smiles and the smirks off the faces of the proponents of this bill. Pass this amendment. Protect the American people. I reserve the balance of my time. ###
02.09.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced a bill today that would help consumers save money by enabling generic drug companies to get their products to market more quickly. H.R. 3995 would empower the Federal Trade Commission to enforce regulations that crack down on the holders of pharmaceutical patents that sue a generic drug manufacturer and then settle the lawsuit by paying the generic company to keep its product off the market. “Currently,” Rush explained, “these arrangements have generally been held to be legal but they hurt consumers and increase the cost that taxpayers pay to fund Medicare and Medicaid.” Rush went on to say that the drug companies’ actions “are costing consumers billions of dollars and those actions must not be allowed to continue.” The Congressional Budget Office says these so called “pay for delay” deals could cost taxpayers roughly 3 billion dollars over ten years. Rush added, “We should be concerned about what patients and the federal government are not getting out of these anticompetitive arrangements. Consumers and patients, a good many of whom are elderly and on fixed incomes are not getting access to more affordable generic drugs to help treat their conditions. And, the government is not getting the benefit of lower drug prices and related cost savings for Medicare and Medicaid that would help significantly in reducing our federal deficit.” “My bill would outlaw these settlement abuses and work to reverse the heavy tolls that they take on consumers’ wallets and the Federal treasury from having to pay more money over a longer period of time for brand name drugs and authorized generics.” Rush was joined by Representatives Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Frank Pallone (D-NJ) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) who have cosponsored this bill. ###
02.07.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush’s recent essay on President Obama’s State of the Union Address was prominently featured in the February 6th issue of the Congressional Black Caucus’ "This Week in Congress" Magazine. In the article Rush questions whether the Republican controlled House of Representatives is willing to meet its responsibilities. The following is the text of Rush’s essay: This week, in the state of the Union Address, President Obama fulfills his constitutional duty to recommend for Congressional Consideration "such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient." It is a profoundly important speech that comes at a time when the nation, under Obama’s leadership, is making a noticeable comeback from the great recession that he inherited from former President Bush. It is an opportunity to advise us of the new, fiscally responsible direction that our nation must take to secure economic stability which is essential in delivering true freedom and equality for all. It is an opportunity to remind us that we cannot afford to be seduced by the empty promises of trickle-down economics that contributed to thirty years of widening wealth and income inequality. It is a profoundly important speech. But the true measure of how our Union is faring has less to do with words and more to do with what is actually happening in the lives of The American People. The personal well being of our citizens depends on their abilities to work in meaningful and productive jobs; to educate their children; to dream with confidence that they live in a society where opportunity abounds and aspiration are not crippled by social status or the lack of inherited wealth. We are doing better. For the past 22 months, the American private sector has created jobs. But Congress must do its part. Congress must enact legislation that creates jobs and workforce training opportunities for new, part-time and returning workers to enter the labor markets as full time employees. The American Jobs Act will put more people back to work and more money in the pockets of working Americans and it won’t add a dime to the deficit. Every day people in this country are working hard to meet their responsibilities. The question is whether the Republicans in Congress will meet theirs. Congress must put country ahead of politics and pass the American Jobs Act. President Obama is rebuilding the American economy based on balance, fairness and the rules of hard work and fair play that have made our nation great. Living within our means does not mean selling our future short by cutting education or taking away the safety net from our senior citizens. The American Jobs Act is part of the pathway back to work for the long term unemployed. We cannot afford for them to lose hope. We need their skills, creativity and determination. We need the energy and fearlessness of young entrepreneurs. The American Jobs Act will put teachers and first responders and returning veterans to work repairing crumbling bridges, roads and infrastructure. The income and wealth disparity that currently exists in our nation is a threat to the middle class, a threat to our basic principles, a threat to who the framers of our constitution said we must be. Words are powerful, whether from the President in his State of the Union Address or from the writers of the U.S. Constitution. But that power only exists as a function of what “We the People” and “We the representatives of the People” are willing to do to put those words into action. ###
02.02.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced a bill to grant the congressional gold medal to African-American publishing icon John H. Johnson. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor bestowed by the United States Congress. Johnson, who died in 2005, was the founder and publisher of Ebony and Jet Magazines and was the first African American listed among the Forbes 400 Richest Americans. Johnson’s first Magazine, Negro Digest, was published in 1942 in Chicago. It was the predecessor to Ebony and featured African-American history, literature, arts and culture. By showing and telling the accomplishments of African-Americans, Johnson sent a message to the world that the descendants of slaves had accomplished great things in America, even in the face of legalized discrimination and de-facto segregation. Speaking of Johnson, Congressman Rush said "John H. Johnson understood the power of positive imagery on the minds of oppressed people. He knew that real progress and real freedom would begin with the notion of what could actually be achieved. His genius was in realizing that the individual stories of success and prosperity told in Ebony and Jet would uplift, inspire and affirm the masses of his people in ways that the larger society refused to do. John H. Johnson gave voice to our aspirations and showed in living color what we could and would become." The first Congressional Gold Medal was awarded to then-General George Washington during the Revolutionary War in 1776. Other recipients include Civil Rights leaders Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Roy Wilkins and Rosa Parks. The list includes inventors, Thomas Edison and the Wright Brothers, poet Robert Frost and entertainer Bob Hope. ###
01.05.2012	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), a senior Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and staunch supporter of America’s workers and their families, issued a statement today in support of President Obama’s decision to make three recess appointments to the National Labor Relations Board. Currently the NLRB has only two members, leaving the agency without the quorum it needs to make important legal rulings and decisions critical to our nation’s employer/employee relations. In commenting, Rush said the following: “As we continue to witness the widening gap between rich and poor and dramatic decreases in health and retirement security for America’s workers, now is certainly NOT the time for government to stand idly by. Without a full complement of NLRB Members, American working families and their employers will be severely harmed with workers’ rights unprotected and labor regulations unenforced. President Obama’s recess appointments will assure that employees and employers can defend their rights and litigate their respective claims in the speediest manner possible, which is what Congress intended in its passage of the National Labor Relations Act. The President acted decisively to protect American jobs.” ###
12.14.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will receive the prestigious Leon H. Sullivan Foundation’s Champion of African Diaspora Economic Growth Award on Thursday, December 15, 2011. Rush will be honored for his work in Congress towards strengthening U.S.-Africa trade relations. The Sullivan Honors are named after the late Civil Rights pioneer and Anti-Apartheid Activist Leon Sullivan whose philosophy of Black Economic Empowerment laid the groundwork for the American Civil Rights Movement and the dismantling of South African Apartheid. In acknowledging Rush’s work Foundation Chairman Ambassador Andrew Young wrote: "This year, you have distinguished yourself as a great advocate for the African Diaspora with your exemplary contribution to promoting Africa’s economic growth. We salute you for being a visionary by introducing H.R. 656, the African Investment and Diaspora Act (AIDA) of 2010. This legislation is a milestone in strengthening U.S. Africa trade relations." AIDA directs the President to appoint a special representative for United States-Africa Trade, Development, and Diaspora Affairs within the State Department. It also directs the Secretary of State to establish, within the Department of State, the Office of United States-Africa Trade, Development, and Diaspora Affairs, with the Special Representative as its head, and directs the Special Representative to establish five regional United States-Africa Trade, Development, and Diaspora Affairs public outreach, education, and liaison centers. Lastly, AIDA requires that the U.S. government consult with African Union and United Nations agencies about Africa-related trade and economic development. In accepting the Sullivan Award Rush says he believes the reconnection of Africans and African-Americans is essential. “It is an economic imperative for our nations and a spiritual imperative for our people. The disconnect on both sides of the Atlantic impacts the lives of real people in real ways. It is with tremendous gratitude that I accept this honor for my humble efforts in continuing the important work that Leon Sullivan started,” Rush said. “The African Diaspora constitutes a growing economic force for the U.S. economy,” he continued, “including African immigrants, who census data reports are the most highly educated of any immigrant group in this nation. I believe the reconnection of America’s workers with Africa’s workers will spark economic growth and development that will benefit us all.” The Awards ceremony will be a star-studded international event to be held at the Marriott-Wardman Park Hotel, in Washington D.C. More information on the 2011 Sullivan Honors can be found at www.thesullivanfoundation.org. ###
12.12.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby Rush made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives as Congress prepares to vote on the important environmental issue of pipeline safety. In recent years Illinois residents have voiced growing concern over the danger that lies hidden underneath cities and towns. In response Congressman Rush, who serves as Ranking Democratic Member of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power led a bipartisan effort to strengthen laws and regulations governing pipeline inspections and maintenance. His comments are as follows: “Mr. Speaker, I am here to express my full support for HR 2845, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011. Mr. Speaker, this bill represents a bipartisan effort and a good faith compromise by Members from both sides of the aisle, from multiple committees, and across both chambers of Congress. During negotiations on the final bill language I was very fortunate to have Administrator Cynthia Quarterman, of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency, accept my invitation to come out to Illinois to discuss pipeline safety with representatives from the Illinois Commerce Commission, as well as with officials from Will County, which accounts for a larger percentage of pipelines than any other county in my home state. Many of the same serious issues regarding pipeline safety that were discussed in these meetings are addressed in this piece of legislation and I am very pleased with the final product. Mr. Speaker, I would also like to thank Members from both sides of the aisle, including Energy & Commerce Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman, as well as Energy & Power Subcommittee Chairman Whitfield for working with my office to include language that would require a comprehensive report examining the levels of engagement and participation of minority-owned, woman-owned, and disadvantaged- business enterprises and contractors involved in the construction and operation of pipelines in this country. Additionally, this report will also look at methods for facilitating this type of involvement in order to increase the participation of minorities and women in the very lucrative pipeline industry. Mr. Speaker, this study will be a first step in a process to make sure that the builders and contractors in charge of rebuilding America’s aging and expanding pipeline system will represent the variety of groups and businesses out there, including those who are most desperate for jobs and economic opportunity. So, I am pleased to support this critical piece of legislation and I urge all of my colleagues to support it as well. With that I yield back my time…” ###
12.12.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby Rush, (D-IL) received notification today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a Discretionary grant for $10,438,000 for reconstruction of Illinois Route 83. The grant will be administered by the Illinois Department of Transportation. The project will reconstruct two miles of Route 83 (147th Street) between Kedzie Ave. and Western/Dixie Highway. The work will involve the improvement of two travel lanes in each direction separated by a median to accommodate left turn lanes. The project, expected to begin in 2012, is designed to ease traffic flow in an increasingly busy Transportation Corridor and promises to provide much needed jobs for Illinois residents. ###
12.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) made the following statement about the Postal Service Cuts: "The black middle class has been particularly hard hit by public sector layoffs. The history of African-Americans being hired by the Postal Service dates back more than 145 years. When no one else would hire former slaves the postal service did so. For that reason alone the Post Office has been a significant block in the building of the black middle class in America. I am very concerned about the impact this latest round of cuts will have on families and communities during what is already a bad time. The future, I believe, must be seen in terms of training and re-training for jobs in our new technology-driven economy. The future must be seen in terms of a diversification of skills and education that keeps African-Americans from being overly reliant on any one sector for employment. African-American youth, especially, must turn their tremendous creativity, hard work and ambition into building their own businesses. If they’re not entrepreneurs I believe they must focus on training, especially in science, math and technology…knowledge that equips them with the necessary skills to compete, in a new global economy. I will be vigilant regarding any future closings in already underserved communities. I will not allow the Postal Service budget to be balanced on the backs of the most vulnerable among us." ###
11.17.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby Rush (D-IL) has written the following letter requesting a congressional hearing on the NCAA. Sixty Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, are co-signatories to the letter. The Honorable Mary Bono-Mack Chairman Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing & Trade 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Bono-Mack: As you know, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade has jurisdiction over the regulation of interstate commerce and commercial practices, including sports. We respectfully request that the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing & Trade immediately convene a hearing to evaluate those circumstances under which the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) would decide – along with what is the NCAA’s capacity – to independently investigate recurring student-athlete and administrative misconduct and violations of NCAA and member conference regulations.[1] In the past two weeks, extremely disturbing allegations of the sexual abuse of young minors, over the course of two decades, by an assistant head football coach at Penn State University have given rise to such questions. These charges surround what have certainly become the most unnerving scandal and alleged series of cover-ups to come to light in intercollegiate athletics in this century. Notwithstanding the assertions by some that the NCAA lacks jurisdiction to investigate or to seek redress of this matter – an assertion with which we strongly disagree – the NCAA’s ultimate investigation of and response to said allegations will directly impact interstate commerce and have significant precedential effect in establishing where the NCAA’s jurisdiction begins and ends. Sincerely, Barton, Joe Bass, CharlesBiggert, Judy Bishop, Sanford Butterfield, G.K. Cardoza, Dennis Christensen, Donna Clarke, Yvette D. Clay, William "Lacy" Cleaver, Emanuel Clyburn, James E. Conyers, John Costello, Jerry Davis, Danny Dingell, John Edwards, Donna Ellison, Keith Farr, Sam Filner, Bob Fudge, Marcia L. Garamendi, John Green, Al Gutierrez, Luis Hastings, Alcee Hinchey, Maurice Hinojosa, Ruben Honda, Mike Jackson-Lee, Sheila Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Henry C. "Hank"Jones, Walter B. Kaptur, Marcy Lee, Barbara Lewis, John McCollum, Betty McDermott, Jim Moore, Gwen Neal, Richard E. Perlmutter, Ed Rahall, Nick Rangel, Charles B. Richardson, Laura Richmond, Cedric Ross, Mike Rush, Bobby L. Schakowsky, Jan Scott, David Serrano, José Sewell, Terri A. Thompson, Bennie Towns, Edolphus Velázquez, Nydia M.Walberg, Tim Waters, Maxine Watt, Mel Waxman, HenryWhitfield, Ed Wilson, Frederica Woolsey, Lynn [1] Although we are encouraged by the statements from NCAA President, Mark Emmert that the NCAA will launch its own investigation into the alleged sex abuse scandal at Penn State, the NCAA was not precise as to its basis for initiating such an investigation, or as to whether facts that may be established through non-judicial system proceedings could determine whether Association bylaws and regulations have been violated, which party(ies) violated NCAA rules, and whether NCAA enforcement staff had been given false or misleading information. See President Emmert’s statement on Penn State, https://www.ncaa.org/wps/wcm/connect/public/NCAA/Resources/Latest+News/2011/November/President+Emmerts+statement+on+Penn+State (released November 10, 2011). ###
11.17.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov This time we saw it. On October 31st, near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a coal ash mud slide the size of a football field swept a pickup truck, several construction trailers, and other equipment onto the beach and into Lake Michigan. We got the horrible picture of the toxic black ooze containing cancer-causing mercury, arsenic, cadmium, boron, and selenium from news choppers flying above. It was an appalling sight. Just as appalling, but hidden from sight, is the dumping of 504 tons of coal ash into Lake Michigan by the S.S. Badger car ferry, annually. Until recent Chicago Tribune articles made it public, the operators of the Badger have benefitted from this invisibility. They have avoided public scrutiny and a massive outcry because their sludge gets dumped deep into the waters of Lake Michigan, rather than on land. But out of sight cannot be out of mind for Americans. Not when hundreds of millions of our hard-earned tax dollars have been spent over the last two decades to clean up Lake Michigan. It is the source of drinking water for 10 million people and a vital national resource. Presidents and Members of Congress from both parties have understood the importance of protecting the Great Lakes. The argument by the Badger’s owners is that the environmental impact of their coal ash dumping is somehow balanced out because they are keeping cars off the roads. That reasoning just does not hold water. Every other competing ferry has already made the necessary retrofits in order to be compliant with federal Clean Water Act regulations. In fact, during its peak season, the Badger dumps more coal ash into the lake than all of the other 125 ships navigating Lake Michigan combined. In 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency gave the Badger up to four years to find an alternative to the ship’s antiquated coal boilers. On October 14th, I met with EPA officials to discuss the extension for compliance that the Badger’s owners were requesting and made it clear that I believed that four years was more than enough time for the ferry’s operator’s to come into compliance with federal environmental protection regulations. However, in the face of the 2012 deadline for compliance, the Badger’s owners are now scrambling to find alternative ways to circumvent federal environmental protection law by applying for National Historic Landmark designation. This last ditch effort to avoid modernization by having the Badger nominated as a National Historic Landmark by the Department of Interior would be laughable if it were not such a perverse misuse of the national landmark designation. In fact, on November 10th, I requested a meeting with Interior Department officials to express my opposition to the landmark status application, and also to get a better understanding of the merits for even considering this request. It is very difficult to comprehend why procrastinating for so many years to come into compliance with federal environmental law, while all of its competitors have already made the investment to do so, would make the Badger a candidate for landmark status. In addition to applying for landmark status, the owners of the Badgers have also decided to double down by seeking Republican members of Congress to inconspicuously slip language into the Coast Guard’s budget that would exempt vessels that are – or simply nominated for – landmark status from EPA regulation. In other words, the Republican-dominated Congress is trying to hand the Badger’s owners a lifetime pass to dump tons of toxic coal ash into Lake Michigan every year. When it finds its way into our drinking water and air supplies – something that happens far too often – coal ash can cause cancer, organ disease, breathing problems, neurological damage, and developmental problems. Illinois has the second highest number of coal ash dump sites in the United States, and most lack the liners and monitors needed to keep wet waste from seeping into underground aquifers found at most landfills. So it is very disturbing, but perhaps not surprising, then, that the Illinois EPA recently found contamination in groundwater at all the sites they tested near ash dumps. The Republican Congress calls EPA’s commonsense rules, and even its oversight of the S.S. Badger, ‘job-killing’ regulations. Of course we need more jobs, we need businesses to grow so they can expand and hire, and we need domestic sources of energy. But I believe it is a false choice to try and frame tremendously important policy decisions under the paradigm of either clean air and water or jobs and employment. We in Congress have a responsibility to fight for our constituents’ right to live and raise their families in a healthy environment If the Badger’s owners truly want landmark status perhaps the ferry can be preserved in dry dock for posterity as a symbol of a by-gone era when we didn’t know better than to dump tons of coal ash into Lake Michigan. ###
11.10.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov Last Monday, I co-chaired a Roundtable Discussion on College Athletics on Capitol Hill. The testimony from athletes, their parents, sports agents, coaches and journalists focused on the economic exploitation of student athletes. But the subtext of their stories proved to be an ominous foretelling of what, this week, would come to light. Let’s face it. Division One college football and basketball are no longer games. They are huge billion dollar entertainment businesses built on the backs and dreams of athletically gifted college students. While the Indictment in the Penn State story reads like a novel, the Pennsylvania Attorney General’s Investigators have gathered enough evidence to make a real case to a Grand Jury. Any real observer of college sports would not have been blindsided by this week’s events. It makes sense that illegal cover-ups and a gross failure to protect children from a sexual predator could happen inside a culture where the economic, emotional and educational exploitation of student athletes is the accepted norm. It makes sense that out of a culture where student athletes are objectified and seen as products, that protecting the “program” would be more important than protecting the “people” in it. From what we heard during the roundtable discussion, it even makes sense that former District Attorney Ray Gricar, who originally dropped charges against the Penn State Coach mysteriously disappeared…his car and computer, with the hard drive missing were found in a river bank in 2005. He hasn’t been seen in six years. While Penn State is the latest poster child for corruption in student athletic programs, it does not stand alone. The Ohio State University and the University of Miami are among the latest to become embroiled in controversies over impermissible benefits to players. When Men’s football and basketball generate $775 million annually in television revenues the amateurism ideal that the NCAA purports to promote no longer exists. The sooner we Americans see who’s really being played by this system, the sooner we can come together to hold the line in defense of our children and change college sports. That change will only occur only when the American people insist upon protecting student athletes and their families from economic exploitation in the guise of educational opportunity. Collegiate conference and school authorities are quick to discipline and disqualify student athletes for receiving improper benefits. But there’s nothing proper about athletic scholarships when only fifty percent of the players graduate. The exploitation and recruitment begins in elementary school. This process is described in heartbreaking detail by Sports Illustrated investigative reporter George Dohrmann in his excellent book “Play Their Hearts Out.” Dohrmann spent eight years documenting the grooming of one high school basketball team by their coach. One young man with great potential comes to see the coach as a father, the coach sees the boy as a meal ticket. Parents don’t escape Dohrmann’s scrutiny, especially a mother who ignores her son’s reports of a coach’s sexually inappropriate behavior because that coach is helping pay the rent. While this is surely not the case with all parents and all coaches, the ugly reality is that money has turned college football and basketball into a celebrity driven, highly competitive, cut throat, down and dirty university-based businesses. That those businesses are allowed to get away with failing to pay their most important employees is just wrong. We need a new game plan. Our youth must be protected not only from sexual predators but also from the predatory practices of recruiters who go after kids in elementary schools; those coaches that are motivated mostly by money; broadcast entities, advertisers, boosters, athletic apparel companies and yes, even fans. We fans have fumbled the ball. It’s time to stop cheering for a dysfunctional and harmful system of child labor. The NCAA earns more ad revenue from March Madness than the NBA earns during its post season playoffs and finals. Corporations are counting on us to buy cars and clothes and shoes that are advertised during these games but we don’t have to. We can get in the game and tackle this issue with advertisers when they support college programs that don’t protect players. Congress has to get in the game too. Members must direct their attention to this cesspool of corruption that is misusing and abusing our children. I believe we must use our regulatory power over the NCAA to ensure that the NCAA and Universities establish a trust fund to help student athletes finish college, as well as cover their costs to attend graduate school. Ensure that student athletes have collective bargaining rights and representation that begins during the recruiting process. Ensure that student athletes with scholarships who are injured are able to retain their scholarships and recover out of pocket medical expenses and related costs they and their families incur. Ensure that Children under 14 are off limits to recruiters. I believe student athletes should be able to negotiate payment terms over and above the value of their athletic scholarships with colleges. Last week, after hearing the emotional testimony of roundtable participants I compared the NCAA to the Mafia. It was a controversial comment that led to a huge media debate, mostly about the language that I used instead of the underlying meaning of that language. I was describing the NCAA as a closed, secret, money driven organization that required its members to adhere to a code of conduct that fosters corruption. Now we’re looking at a terrible and unfortunate example of what I implied. There is no doubt that the full Penn State story is yet to emerge. Other victims may find the courage to speak out. I hope they do. As a pastor I know that healing can only truly begin when a victim’s voice is really heard. As a nation we must now hear their voices, pray for their healing and dedicate ourselves to doing all we can do to end the outrageous abuse of student athletes nationwide. We are all outraged at the allegations of sex abuse and a cover up at Penn State but we should use that outrage to address the economic abuse of student athletes, to stop looking the other way and act to end the culture of exploitation that packages and sells our children for fun and profit. ###
10.24.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON – U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush has been awarded the “112th Congress Bronze Mouse Award” in recognition of his official congressional website being named one of the best websites on Capitol Hill. The award was given by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a nonpartisan nonprofit organization working to improve communications between citizens and Congress and enhance operations in Capitol Hill offices. CMF has assessed and graded congressional websites and issued these awards since 2001. "Rep. Rush is to be commended for educating citizens and achieving the highest degree of transparency and accountability in online communications," said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of CMF. "In the 21st Century, a website is much more than a broadcasting tool for a political message - it's a virtual office and a window into our democratic institutions. These winners of the Platinum, Gold, Silver, and Bronze Mouse Awards understand the value of using the Internet to enlighten and serve constituents, and are examples for all congressional offices to follow," he said. “I want to thank the Congressional Management Foundation for recognizing the fine work my office has done to make Congress more accessible,” Rep. Rush said. “The Internet is a valuable tool to bring a greater level of transparency to the federal government and we have worked to ensure that our website is an effective and efficient resource for my constituents and the public at large. I am proud to accept this award and look forward to building on this great achievement.” CMF conducted its analysis from June to September 2011 and today released its latest report, “112th Congress Gold Mouse Report: Best Practices in Online Communications on Capitol Hill.” Of the 618 congressional websites graded, a total of 98 personal office, committee and leadership websites earned A’s, and will therefore receive a Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze Mouse Award. With the assistance and guidance of faculty from the University of California-Riverside, the Ohio State University, and Northeastern University, CMF staff assessed and graded the websites and gave each a numerical score, which was translated into a grade of A through F. Founded in 1977, CMF is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit dedicated to helping Congress and its Members meet the evolving needs and expectations of an engaged and informed 21st century citizenry. Its work focuses on improving congressional operations and enhancing citizen engagement through research, publications, training, and management services. The Gold Mouse Awards and congressional website research is part of CMF's Partnership for a More Perfect Union, dedicated to enriching the relationship between citizens and Congress. The goal of the Partnership is to further meaningful civic engagement through education, re-establishing trust, and providing innovative and pragmatic tools to facilitate purposeful two-way communication between citizens and Congress. ### Download a copy of the report here.
10.14.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Speaker, I have an amendment at the desk. "Mr. Speaker, my amendment provides federal enforcement authority so that if the EPA Administrator determines that a structure is in violation of a state coal combustion residuals permit program, and the state has not taken appropriate action to enforce such permit program with respect to such structure, the Administrator may inspect such structure and enforce the requirements of such permit program. "Mr. Speaker, as currently drafted, H.R. 2273 fails to require states to enforce their own permit requirements. "The manager’s amendment only requires states to describe their “process to enforce” but there is no requirement to actually enforce regulations. "This built-in loophole in H.R. 2273 does not require adequate state inspection of coal ash ponds and landfills and allows states to set up voluntary regulatory programs, which will clearly not ensure the safe design, operation, and cleanup of the nation’s many toxic coal ash disposal sites. "Mr. Speaker, due to a case in my district in the Village of Crestwood, Ilinois, where contaminated drinking water was piped into the homes of my constituents for a period of over 20 years, between 1986 and 2007, without any intervention from either state or federal EPA agencies, I, for one am very sensitive to this issue. "Since the beginning of this Congress, the Republican majority has been on a never ending, non-stop forever and ever crusade against the EPA and our nation’s environmental protection laws on behalf of a few industries and to the detriment of the public good. "However, for many of my constituents there is no greater role for Congress to play than to protect their lives and livelihoods by ensuring that all American citizens have access to clean air and water. "Mr. Speaker, I believe it is a false choice to try and frame these tremendously important policy decisions under the paradigm of either clean air and water or jobs and employment. "As leaders, it is our job, it is our responsibility to find the right balance when crafting legislation so that our constituents are not faced with these types of lose-lose situations and decisions. "I believe that my amendment will go a long way in trying to make this legislation far more balanced so that, at the very least, we allow the federal government, our government, to serve as the last backstop for the American people against companies that would seek to skirt the law without regard for our families and communities that they live in and the communities that these companies would harm. "Mr. Speaker, many of my constituents do not have the money and influence that the industry has, but they still expect their Congressional Representatives to protect their interests. "In fact, I would like to end with a quote from a letter dated July 11th that my office received from a number of ordinary American families who live by coal ash dumps all across this country. And I quote, “Do our lives matter to you? Is protecting coal ash “recycling” more important than our health or the quality of our drinking water?” “The letter goes on to say, “As you consider this legislation, please don’t forget about us. We are not ‘against the coal industry.’ We simply want the laws that are supposed to protect people to be enforced.” “Mr. Speaker, my amendment will allow the federal government to do precisely that. “So I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment, and with that I yield back.” # # # NOTE: Here's a video link to Ranking Member Rush's statement on the House floor. Rush Floor Statement on Coal Ash Act Amendment - C-SPAN - 10-14-2011
10.13.2011	Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member For Immediate Release: October 13, 2011 Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-5735Sharon Jenkins/Renee Ferguson (Rush): (202) 225-4372 Reps. Waxman and Rush Call for Hearing on North Dakota Natural Gas Flaring Washington, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield requesting a hearing to assess natural gas flaring practices in North Dakota and their potential energy and environmental consequences. The request follows a recent news report on the wasteful process of burning of natural gas in North Dakota. The full text of the letter is below and is also available online here. October 13, 2011 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Energy and Commerce Committee U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Whitfield: Recently, the New York Times reported on the practice of natural gas flaring across wide areas of North Dakota.[1] This practice involves the burning of 100 million cubic feet of natural gas every day or, as the Times reported, “enough energy to heat half a million homes for a day.” These practices, which burn up to 30% of the natural gas produced in North Dakota each year, are responsible for the release of two million tons of CO2 in the atmosphere every year. These are shocking statistics. Our goal should be to utilize domestic energy resources responsibly to reduce our dependence on imported energy, not to squander vast quantities of natural gas. The associated release of large volumes of greenhouse gas emissions will exacerbate our contribution to global warming. These wasteful practices appear to be a result of high oil prices and low prices for natural gas. Investments in infrastructure to capture the natural gas associated with oil drilling are not keeping up with the rapid pace of oil exploration and development. We are writing to request a hearing in the Energy and Power Subcommittee on this natural gas flaring. We should ascertain the extent of these practices, their energy and environmental consequences, and whether these practices warrant any additional attention from the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1] Krauss, Clifford. “In North Dakota, Flames of Wasted Natural Gas Light the Prairie”, New York Times (Sept. 26, 2011).
10.13.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I also want to thank Chairman Wellinghoff and Ms. Azar, as well as all of the other expert witnesses on the second panel for appearing before this subcommittee today. “Mr. Chairman, today we are holding a hearing focusing on federal transmission issues as they relate to siting, planning, and cost allocation for electricity transmission infrastructure. “The basis of this hearing is FERC Order No. 1000, which was finalized in June, 2011 and which addresses three main issues: planning, cost allocation, and the federal right of first refusal for incumbent transmission providers. “Order 1000 establishes three new requirements regarding cost allocation. “First, it requires that each regional transmission planning process establish a regional cost allocation method for new transmission lines selected in the regional transmission plan, for purposes of cost allocation. “This cost allocation method must satisfy six principles: (1) those who do not benefit from a transmission project do not have to pay for it; (2) the costs allocated must be at least “roughly commensurate” with estimated benefits; (3) benefit-to-cost thresholds must not exclude projects with significant net benefits; (4) allocation of costs outside a region are not permitted unless the other region agrees; (5) cost allocation methods and identification of beneficiaries must be transparent; and (6) different allocations methods can apply to different types of transmission facilities. “The second requirement is that neighboring regions must select a common interregional cost allocation method for new interregional transmission lines based on the same six principles I outlined. “The third and final requirement allows for participant-funding of new transmission lines, where costs of a new transmission line are allocated only to entities that volunteer to bear those costs, but under Order 1000 this cannot be the regional or interregional cost allocation method. “Mr. Chairman, many of the issues covered under Order 1000 are very technical in nature to say the least, but I applaud you for holding this important hearing so we can hear directly from many of the stakeholders who will be in charge of implementing, and who will be most impacted by these proposals. “Many of these issues surrounding federal electricity transmission break down by region, rather than by party, and I look forward to the question-and-answer segment to learn more about how Order 1000 would affect my state of Illinois, specifically, as well as the Midwest region in general. “So I am very eager to hear testimony from Chairman Wellinghoff, as well as all of our other witnesses, and I look forward to a very informative, inspirational and robust discussion on these important issues here today. “And with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's hearing in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Hearing on "Electric Transmission Issues"
10.10.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush joined U. S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Illinois Governor Pat Quinn, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and other elected and appointed officials and community leaders to participate in a ground breaking ceremony to mark the beginning of the “Englewood Flyover” project. This $133 million construction project is funded through a $126 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s high-speed, intercity passenger rail program with a $6.6 million contribution from Governor Quinn’s Illinois Jobs Now! Construction program. The project will build a bridge to separate traffic along two railroads, allowing 130 trains per day to move more quickly through one of the worst bottlenecks in North America. The investment will improve the on-time performance of passenger trains, reduce freight congestion and create nearly 1,500 jobs. Rush played a leading role in helping secure resources for this project which runs through the 1st Congressional District. Rush said this to those who gathered this morning at the construction site, “This is a good day for the people of the 1st Congressional District, Chicago, the Midwest, and America. “It’s a good day because this event shows what can be done when we’ve got the right leadership in Washington. “We can create jobs. “We can repair the rails. “We can improve the air quality. “We can get our economy moving again when we, the politicians, put we the people first. “I am here to put everybody on notice that high speed rail cannot leave the residents of Englewood back at the station. “I am here to put everybody on notice that the Englewood Flyover can’t just look over minority and women construction workers, contractors and suppliers for the work that is going to be done right here in this community. “Let’s be clear. The people of this community who will pay the price of progress in dust, dirt and delays have got to get some of the dough! “What we do here, today, is designed to end idling engines and idle workers. And, believe me, there are plenty of workers looking for jobs. “In May, 10,000 potential employees came looking for jobs at my ‘Transportation Jobs Fair.’ That’s 10,000 people who showed up to give the railroads their resumes. “When I was a much younger man than I am today, I worked as a Rail Yard Clerk. I was a teletype operator and made $15 dollars an hour. “I didn’t just get money from that job, although money was very important. But that job helped me develop a real sense of self worth. It helped me to be independent. I got up in the morning and got to work on time and did my job with excellence because I realized my fellow workers, and my company, were depending upon me. “It’s not just money that our young people are losing when they don’t have jobs. I’m worried that they could get into the habit of not working. I’m worried that we could lose their innovation, their energy and their productivity. “Chicago, Englewood and America can’t afford to lose what the American worker brings to the table. “Jobs define us. Jobs design us and jobs refine us. “Some of the skills I learned working on the railroad are skills that are useful in the United States House of Representatives even today. I learned how to keep things moving and keep everything on track. I wish some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in the House would do the same. “They want to go backwards and we’re all about moving forward. “They want to tear down and we want to build up. “It’s a fight but anybody who knows me knows I’m not scared of a fight. The people standing here with me, today…they aren’t scared to fight! And, today…well, considering how far we’ve come, today, this is what it looks like to win! “Today reminds us all about what it is we’re fighting for. “So let’s put on our hard hats, shovel some dirt, lay some rail and get our country, our people and this community moving at high speed!” # # # NOTE: Here's part of the TV coverage from today's event as reported on WLS-TV, CH 7, Chicago: Rush Speaks at Englewood Flyover Groundbreaking Ceremony - 10-10-2011
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush joined other national leaders, friends and family in mourning the death of Civil Rights icon Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth. He was 89 years old. In 1957, Rev. Shuttlesworth met in Atlanta with a group of ministers, among them Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., Rev. Ralph Abernathy and Rev. Joseph Lowery to form an organization dedicated to ending segregation on busses. The Southern Christian Leadership Conference on Transportation and Non Violent Integration would eventually become the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. The success of the Montgomery Bus Boycott, led by Dr. King and Rev. Shuttlesworth, helped set the stage tactically and philosophically for what would become the American Civil Rights Movement. “In every organization there are those special people who are doers. Fred Shuttlesworth was fearless and walked with confidence because he placed his trust in God. He knew, as is written in the Biblical book of Proverbs that ‘The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever leans on, trusts in and puts his confidence in the Lord is safe and set on high.’ In my mind, nothing illustrates that point better than the well known story of the Christmas Day bombing of Rev. Shuttlesworth’s Birmingham home. When a police officer told him to leave town if he wanted to survive, Shuttlesworth said God had erased his name from the bomb and he hadn’t been saved to run.” Rush continued, “In the days to come I hope that all of America will take the time to reflect upon Rev. Shuttlesworth’s brilliance, courage and tenacity. He was a transformational leader and inspired Dr. King and others who knew him to trust in God for their protection in a dangerous time. “My wife, Carolyn, and I join a grateful nation and the Chicago community in expressing our condolences to Rev. Shuttlesworth’s wife, Sephira, his family and loved ones as they mourn their loss.” # # #
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Speaker, this atrocious bill, H.R. 2681, would make permanent changes to the Clean Air Act by weakening health- and science-based standards. “Cement kilns are a major source of mercury pollution and other toxic air pollution. However, until last year, these plants had managed to avoid any sort of requirement to reduce these emissions. “Last year, the EPA finalized requirements for cement kilns to use readily available technology to cut their pollution and, now, this bill would nullify the new health standards and direct the EPA to go back to the drawing board! “Mr. Speaker, my Republican colleagues would like to frame this as a debate between jobs and public health benefits, but I believe this is a false choice. “We know that since the inception of the Clean Air Act, opponents of the law have been exaggerating the costs of implementing the regulations associated with the Act while, at the same time, downplaying the benefits that the new rules have brought. “H.R. 2681 does not take into account the positive impacts on the economy, and jobs, that EPA regulations will have by spurring additional research and development of cleaner technologies and by making these same plants more efficient. “In a recent Washington Post article, the economist Steven Pearlstein takes issue with the Republican analysis of regulatory costs in an article aptly entitled, The Magical World of Voodoo ‘Economists.’ “Mr. Pearlstein correctly notes that these EPA rules spur the creation of innovative new technologies that will not only control pollution, but also create new jobs to install the emissions-control equipment. “Mr. Speaker, supporters of this bill will also argue that it will provide certainty to industry, when in fact, this bill as currently drafted does precisely the opposite. “As written, Section 5 of H.R. 2681 will raise legal uncertainty and ambiguity by requiring the EPA to select the “least burdensome” regulatory alternative even if a stronger standard is feasible and would provide more public health benefits. “However, under current law plant owners already have the flexibility to select an appropriate combination of controls based on the practices of the cleanest and most efficient plants that are operating today. “The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to set toxic air pollution standards for cement kilns based on numeric emission levels that cleaner facilities are actually achieving right here, right now, today in this world’s real world! “Pollution control technologies that meet the requirements are commercially available and, in fact, many plants have already installed modern pollution control technology even as those of you stand here today, for this bill, and against my amendment. “Mr. Speaker, even for the policymakers that are responsible for enacting this legislation the language in Section 5 is ambiguous and I ask, Mr. Speaker, that my colleagues support my amendment.” # # #
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Good morning Madam Chair Bono Mack, Ranking Member Butterfield and Chairman Emeritus Dingell. Today’s hearing is designed to review the adequacy of existing protections for children’s online privacy. Although several catalysts have brought this hearing about, including the introduction of a do-not-track kids bill by Representatives Markey and Barton and the Federal Trade Commission’s proposal to refresh its rules under the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), our focus should be on passing a comprehensive privacy bill that applies not only to children’s personal data but to the personal data of ALL consumers. Thus far, only two Members in the House have introduced comprehensive privacy bills in the 112th Congress: the Best Practices Act, H.R. 611 that I introduced back in February of this year, and the Consumer Privacy Protection Act, H.R. 1528, which was introduced by Representatives Stearns and Matheson back in April 2011. "In recent days, the media has attributed statements to certain Members of Congress about the prospects for passing a privacy bill in this Congress. They have said that given the upcoming election year, the likelihood that Congress will pass a comprehensive privacy measure in the 112th Congress is very slim. That may be a safe bet, but it ignores the fact that millions of Americans aren’t going to stop their online activities just because their personal information and privacy is not properly protected on America’s law books. "Too many Americans – children and adults – assume that adequate online privacy laws and protections are already in place. And you know what? They couldn’t be more wrong. "Their perceived reality about how their personal information and privacy are protected in a physical or a material world does not correspond to how easily their privacy and personal information can be compromised in the virtual world. To borrow an analogy from my esteemed colleague, Representative Markey, for some of these adults, using the Internet and going online is just as much ‘oxygen’ to them as it is to a 12 year-old child. "Being online is no longer a novelty or a luxury as it may have been a decade ago. It has quickly become one of life’s necessities in our society. Adults rely on Internet access not only to shop and to acquire information, but also to search for jobs, pay their bills, apply for and renew important licenses and permits and, perhaps, even to vote for a United States President in the not-too-distant future. "And while some of what I have said may serve as a bit of a prelude to next week’s privacy hearing, which will examine consumers’ expectations about online privacy, the need for a comprehensive consumer privacy law will bear repeating, then, just as it does now at today’s hearing. "In closing, let me be clear for the Record. I am not against adapting and increasing online protections for children. I voted for passage of the COPPA law in 1998, and I believe that the FTC has proposed effective revisions to its existing rules that will promote the statute’s core goals of ensuring that parents are informed and are able to prevent young children from disclosing their personal information online. But we leave so much undone by throwing up our hands before committing ourselves more seriously to addressing not just our children’s online privacy needs, but all of our needs – children who are older than 12 years old and adults alike. "Thank you and with that I yield back the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: You may view today's hearing proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here:Hearing on "Protecting Children's Privacy in an Electronic World"
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong, strong opposition to this bill H.R. 2681, I call it the ‘Dirty Cement Pollution Bill.’ "And let’s be perfectly clear, Mr. Speaker, this bill and this measure is not about jobs. For the Chairman of the subcommittee, and my friend, to try to persuade members of this body that this is about jobs, I think that it’s the worst kind of politics. ‘Jobs Now’ is a useful canard but this is not about jobs. This is about an industry that is singular in its being eliminated, or not being under the auspices of the Clean Air Act. And it’s about an industry that is unique because it doesn’t have to adhere to any of the provisions of the Clean Air Act. And it’s about time that this industry be included with other industries in this nation to come under the auspices, and the jurisdiction, and the standards of the Clean Air Act. “Cement kilns emit nearly eight tons of mercury each year, making them the nation’s second largest mercury-emitting source. “Before the EPA issued its 2010 air toxics rule, these emissions remained, essentially, unrestrained due to the lack of controls for cement kilns regulating the release of mercury into the atmosphere. “H.R. 2681 would roll back existing Clean Air Act standards by revoking three Clean Air Act rules, including the only national limits on emissions of air toxins, such as mercury, from cement kilns. “This Dirty Cement Pollution Bill would also require the EPA to propose and finalize weaker replacement rules that would allow for more pollution than the law currently permits. “This bill is intended to significantly change how the EPA sets the standards when issuing the alternative rules. “H.R. 2681 would indefinitely delay the reductions of air toxins and other hazardous pollutants by prohibiting the EPA from finalizing replacement rules, prior to March 2013, if this bill were to be enacted by the end of this year. “Also, this bill does not include any statutory deadline for when polluters must reduce emissions, leaving the process ambiguous and open ended. “At the very least, this Dirty Cement Pollution Bill would postpone emission reductions from cement kilns until at least 2018, a 4 ½-year delay! “In fact, the health safeguards from these standards are long, long, long, long overdue. “The EPA just finalized standards for cement plants in September of last year, making them 13 years overdue under the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990. Thirteen years overdue, already, they’re overdue 13 years! “The science tells us that these dirty air toxins can cause a variety of serious health effects, including cancer, respiratory and neurological impairments, as well as reproductive problems. “In particular, mercury exposure can cause great harm to pregnant women, unborn babies and young children, by damaging the developing nervous system, which affects children’s ability to learn and to think. “Additionally, mercury emissions can also damage the environment by polluting our nation’s lakes, streams and the seafood that we eat. “In fact, the EPA estimates that H.R. 2681 would allow for thousands of additional premature deaths and premature heart attacks, as well as tens of thousands of additional asthma attacks that could have been avoided. “Mr. Speaker, the public health benefits from the reduction of air toxins emissions from cement kilns have already been delayed long enough. Now is the time to act. “The radical Republican majority cannot keep making excuses and exceptions for the largest industrial emitters of mercury in the United States—cement plants and industrial boilers—while over 100 other industries have already controlled their toxic pollution. “I urge all of my colleagues to oppose this egregious and dangerous bill and I yield the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: Here's a video link to Ranking Member Rush's statement on the House floor. Rush Opposition to H.R. 2681 - The Dirty Cement Pollution Bill - CSPAN - 10-05-2011
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “I want to thank the Ranking Member for yielding. Mr. Speaker I have a question that I ask the Members on the other side. How much time do you need? How much time are you asking the American people to wait? How much longer do they have to wait for the EPA to come up with rules and regulations that will regulate the cement kiln industry? “An industry that up until this date, here13 years later, 13 years later, still no regulation of the cement kiln and the cement industry. Thirteen years and, here, you have the audacity to come before this Congress and come before the American people and say, after 13 years, we want you to wait even longer—another year and a half—for the EPA to act on this bill and another five years, another five years before this bill will force them to comply. "That’s a total of 18 years, 19 years, 19 and a half years! Nineteen and a half years. You want the American people to continue to breathe bad air, to get diseases, cancer, lung diseases for another 19 years? How dare you come before the American people, and come before this Congress, and say give this industry more time. They’ve had 13 years and most of the industries in this nation have already complied. This one industry, the only one, the one that you are trying to protect, it’s the only one that’s excluded and I say we can’t wait any longer. "The American people can’t wait any longer. "Our children can’t wait any longer. "Our senior citizens can’t wait any longer. "We can’t wait any longer! We cannot give them another seven years." # # # NOTE: Here's a video link to Ranking Member Rush's statement on the House floor. Rush Unloads on GOP Environmental Extremism on H.R. 2681 - CSPAN - 10-05-2011
09.28.2011	Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member For Immediate Release: September 28, 2011 Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-5735Sharon Jenkins/Renee Ferguson (Rush): (202) 225-4372 Reps. Waxman and Rush Call on Upton for Committee Consideration of Offsetsfor Boiler and Cement Plant Legislation Washington, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chairman Fred Upton requesting an opportunity for a Committee vote on offsets to boiler and cement legislation scheduled for floor consideration next week, in light of CBO’s projections that the bill will have a significant impact on the federal budget. The full text of the letter is below and also available online here. September 28, 2011 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton: The House Republican leadership has scheduled H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2681 for floor consideration next week. While we oppose these bills because they would effectively gut Clean Air Act requirements for waste incinerators, boilers, and cement plants, we are writing today because the legislation also does not comply with your discretionary CutGo policy. On June 21, 2011, you wrote to Rep. Waxman to clarify your discretionary CutGo policy. In your letter, which addressed several pieces of legislation pending at the time, you made the following commitment: “If CBO later determines that any of these bills will have a significant impact on the federal budget, we will offset the newly authorized spending with reductions elsewhere.” As you are aware, the Congressional Budget Office has determined that H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2681 will have a significant impact on the federal budget. CBO considers an impact on the federal budget of $500,000 or more to be “significant.” In this case, CBO estimates that implementing each bill would cost $1 million over the 2012-2016 period in spending subject to appropriations.[1] Under the policy you set for the Committee, this new authorization to spend a total of $2 million must be offset. We therefore request that the Committee have the opportunity to consider what offset is appropriate to be added to the legislation. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power cc: The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1] Congressional Budget Office, Cost Estimate for H.R. 2250 Sept. 23, 2011) (online at https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/124xx/doc12432/hr2250.pdf). Congressional Budget Office, Cost Estimate for H.R. 2681 (Sept. 23, 2011)(online at https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/124xx/doc12434/hr2681.pdf)
09.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov "The Secretary’s report on the level of diverse participation in the energy arena will serve as a vital measure of our commitment as public servants to do right by all taxpayers whose resources are being put to work to strengthen America’s energy future." WASHINGTON –– Today, in a rare moment of bipartisan consensus, an amendment introduced by U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, was incorporated into the final language of H.R. 2937, comprehensive bipartisan energy legislation aimed at strengthening safety standards for the more than two million miles of oil and gas lines located in communities big and small throughout our nation. The vote on this provision occurred today and followed opening statements by Rush and other members yesterday. Rush’s amendment language directs the Secretary of Transportation to submit a report to Congress on the number of minority-owned business enterprises, woman-owned enterprises and disadvantaged-business enterprises that have been granted permits to build or operate pipelines across the country. The Secretary is also required to report on the number of these firms that are utilized by contractors and suppliers. “I am very pleased that this committee can count at least one piece of legislation that has a chance of garnering bipartisan support on the House floor, in the Senate and, ultimately, from the White House,” said Rush. “The safety standards this law mandates are essential for the public good. At the same time, I firmly believe that all segments of our society, especially highly motivated minority-, women- and disadvantaged-business owners are capable of fully participating in this growing market sector. The Secretary’s report on the level of diverse participation in the energy arena will serve as a vital measure of our commitment as public servants to do right by all taxpayers whose resources are being put to work to strengthen America’s energy future. “I applaud the determined work of the bipartisan sponsors of this legislation, Chairman Upton and Chairman Emeritus Dingell, and I will work to ensure that this legislation makes its way to the President’s desk for signature.” The provisions included in this legislation have been pursued for quite some time by energy policy and safety advocates. Rick Kessler, Vice President of the Pipeline Safety Trust, the only independent, nonprofit national pipeline safety watchdog, praised Rush’s leadership on this issue. “Ranking Member Rush is a longstanding champion on these matters and thanks in large measure to his work on this bill, today’s action marks a critical step forward to improve protections for the public and the environment, especially for those who otherwise might not have a voice—low-income communities, women and communities of color.” Other important provisions of H.R. 2937 include the expansion of the integrity management program while phasing out class location requirements, thereby putting a stronger safety standard in place while taking steps to remove redundant regulations. The legislation mandates the use of automatic and remote controlled shut-off valves for new pipelines, and requires studies of the feasibility of retrofitting. The leak detection standard is also an improvement over existing law and will help increase public safety especially in those communities that are located near aging pipeline infrastructure. # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on "H.R. 2250, H.R. 2681 and H.R. 2937"
09.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Amendment Statement in Support of Rush Amendment to H.R. 2681 WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk (Rush #01). “Mr. Chairman, cement kilns are a major source of mercury pollution and other toxic air pollution. “Until last year, cement kilns had managed to avoid any sort of requirement to reduce these emissions. “In August, EPA finalized requirements for cement kilns to use readily available technology to cut their pollution. “This bill nullifies these new health standards and requires EPA to go back to the drawing board. “Supporters of this bill argue that it will provide certainty to industry, when in fact, it does precisely the opposite. “First, as we’ve discussed previously, this bill allows for an indefinite delay of the cement rules, so that industry has no idea when it will have to comply with new emissions limits, if at all. “Additionally, as written, Section 5 of H.R. 2681 will raise legal uncertainty and ambiguity for industry, for the EPA, and the Courts over whether the language contained in this bill should modify or supersede existing provisions of the Clean Air Act, which were designed to achieve maximum reductions in toxic air pollution. “This section requires EPA to set emissions standards for cement kilns that can be met “consistently and concurrently.” “It also requires the EPA to select the “least burdensome” regulatory alternative even if a stronger standard is feasible and would provide more public health benefits. “While words like ‘least burdensome’ and ‘consistent’ and ‘concurrent’ sound reasonable, in this case they are misleading. “The Clean Air Act requires EPA to set toxic air pollution standards for cement kilns based on numeric emissions levels that cleaner facilities are actually achieving today in the real world. “Not in a lab, but in the real world. “However, Section 5 could replace the existing criteria for the EPA to set numeric emissions standards with a requirement that EPA must always choose the “least burdensome” regulatory option, including just requiring work practice standards, even if that option doesn’t go far enough to protect public health and other feasible options are available. “I’ve been arguing that this section could gut the Clean Air Act and has the potential to weaken public health protections, because the language in the bill is ambiguous. “Does the bill intend to replace the existing criteria and let polluters off the hook? Or does it intend to give the EPA direction where they already have some discretion? “Even for the policymakers that are responsible for enacting this legislation it is as unclear to us as it will be to them “My amendment would clarify that Section 5 of H.R. 2681 is intended to supplement the provisions of, and shall not be construed to supersede any requirement, limitation, or other provision of, Sections 112 and 129 of the Clean Air Act. “This amendment clarifies the rules and provides certainty for the EPA, industry, and the courts. “Mr. Chairman, I urge all of my colleagues to support my amendment and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” “Mr. Chairman, in the spirit of contagious bipartisanship, I offer this amendment.” # # # NOTE: This markup proceeding began yesterday with opening statements and was completed today. You may view the markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on "H.R. 2250, H.R. 2681 and H.R. 2937"
09.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Amendment Statement in Support of Rush Amendment to H.R. 2250 WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk (Rush #01). “Mr. Chairman, in an effort to continue the spirit of bipartisan cooperation that’s been evidenced in this room, today, I offer the following amendment. “Mr. Chairman, during her testimony at the September 8 hearing, Gina McCarthy, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, called H.R. 2250 a “direct attack at the core of the Clean Air Act.” “One of the major concerns with H.R. 2250 is that the bill would “indefinitely delay” the health benefits generated by the rules to reduce air toxins from certain boilers, solid waste incinerators and cement kilns. “Additionally, as Ms. McCarthy testified before the subcommittee, H.R. 2250 would raise additional public health concerns by weakening substantive Clean Air Act provisions by requiring that the EPA select the “least burdensome” of the range of regulatory alternatives even if a more stringent standard is feasible, economically viable, and would provide greater public health protection. “Mr. Chairman, as written, Section 5 of H.R. 2250 will raise legal uncertainty and the industry could then argue, in the courts, that this new language should modify or supersede existing provisions of the Clean Air Act, which were designed to achieve maximum reductions in toxic air pollution. “While it remains unclear if this was the intent of the language or not, the fact remains that the language in Section 5 is ambiguous, at best, and will roll back important provisions of the Clean Air Act, at worst. “Mr. Chairman, the research also tells us that low-income families and minorities are disproportionately affected by toxic air pollution because they are more likely to live closer to these industrial facilities. “The hazardous air pollutants emitted from these boilers, including mercury and other harmful toxins, can impair brain development, neurological function, and the ability to learn, as well as potentially cause cancer. “These toxins can also lead to respiratory and cardiovascular disease by damaging the kidneys, lungs, and nervous system. “So, Mr. Chairman, today I am offering an amendment that would clarify that Section 5 of H.R. 2250 is intended to supplement the provisions of, and shall not be construed to supersede any requirement, limitation, or other provision of, Sections 112 and 129 of the Clean Air Act. “If it is the majority’s intent to clarify the rules and provide certainty for business then this amendment would provide clarity to the EPA, the industry, and the courts going forward as these rules are, inevitably, challenged in the judicial system. “And, so, Mr. Chairman I urge all of my colleagues to support my amendment…and with that I yield back the balance of my time. “Mr. Chairman, in the spirit of contagious bipartisanship, I offer this amendment.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on "H.R. 2250, H.R. 2681, and H.R. 2937"
09.20.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Madame Chairman, tomorrow we will be marking up three bills, H.R. 2937, the Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act of 2011, H.R. 2250, the so-called EPA Regulatory Relief Act of 2011, and H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011. “Madame Chairman, I must praise the majority for working with our side on H.R. 2937, the Pipeline Safety bill, which may be the only piece of legislation this committee passes this year that actually becomes law. “Both sides were able to work together in good faith on this bill, which led to a final product that has bipartisan support in this committee, and which should receive widespread bipartisan support on the House floor, in the Senate, as well as the support of the White House. “In particular, I am pleased that the majority side has agreed to include language from my office that would direct the Secretary of Transportation to submit a report to Congress on (1) the number of minority-business enterprises, woman-owned business enterprises, and disadvantaged-business enterprises that have been granted permits to build or operate pipelines and (2) the extent to which pipeline operators utilize the services of companies that are registered as minority- or woman-owned, or is a disadvantaged business enterprise. “Madame Chairman, it is extremely important that all segments of society have the opportunity to benefit from the vast opportunities to upgrade our nation’s aging pipeline infrastructure. “This study will be a first step in a process to make sure that the builders and contractors in charge of rebuilding America’s aging and expanding pipeline system will represent the variety of groups and businesses out there, including those who are most desperate for jobs and economic opportunity. “Unfortunately, Madame Chairman, this bipartisan approach was not the manner in which H.R. 2250 or H.R. 2681 were drafted and I cannot support either of these bills. “As currently drafted, these bills would indefinitely delay the deadline for when EPA would need to act on the rules. “Additionally, the language in Section 5 requires the EPA to select the “least burdensome” of the range of regulatory alternatives, even if a more stringent standard is feasible, economically viable, and would provide greater public health protection. “This provision raises legal uncertainty and will lead to even more litigation in the courts over EPA rules, which may be the majority’s intention. “Madame Chairman, the research also tells us that low-incomes families and minorities are disproportionately affected by toxic air pollution, including impaired neurological development, as well as higher rates of respiratory and cardiovascular disease, because these groups are more likely to live closer to industrial power-plant facilities. “Madame Chairman, this is what the science tells us, and just because we might not like what the science says does not mean we should disregard science. “So I will oppose both H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2681 and I urge all of my colleagues to oppose them as well. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: This markup took place over the course of two days. Opening statements, like the one above, were entered on the record today. The markup continued on September 21 and a link to that day's full proceedings is posted on the release dated 9-21-2011.
09.20.2011	Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking MemberFor Immediate Release: September 20, 2011 Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-5735Sharon Jenkins/Renee Ferguson (Rush): (202) 225-437 Reps. Waxman and Rush Voice Strong Objections to a Whitfield Amendment that Failed to Follow Due Process September 20, 2011 Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield strenuously objecting to an amendment to the TRAIN Act that would make radical changes in Clean Air Act provisions. The amendment, sponsored by Rep. Whitfield, was never considered in the Committee’s hearing or markup process and would result in dramatic increases in toxic and other deadly air pollution. The full text of the letter is below and also available online here. September 20, 2011 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Energy and Commerce Committee U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Whitfield: We are writing to protest the amendment Chairman Whitfield filed yesterday to H.R. 2401, the TRAIN Act. This amendment would make major substantive changes in the Clean Air Act that have never been considered in Committee. During Committee consideration of TRAIN, Chairman Whitfield offered an amendment that fundamentally changed the bill. The legislation started as a requirement that a newly created government commission evaluate the cumulative impacts of EPA regulations. The Whitfield amendment turned this study bill into a substantive bill by indefinitely delaying two major Clean Air Act regulations, the utility MACT rule, which reduces mercury and other toxic emissions from power plants, and the cross-state air pollution rule, which reduces sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from power plants that cross state boundaries and harm downwind communities’ efforts to achieve healthy air quality. We objected to Chairman Whitfield’s amendment on both procedural and substantive grounds. On process, the substantive changes made by the amendment had not been subject to Committee consideration and were circulated to members less than a day before the markup, allowing no time for deliberate consideration. Chairman Whitfield’s floor amendment is an even more egregious abuse of process. It makes radical changes in the Clean Air Act provisions that address toxic air emissions. These changes have never been considered in hearings or debated in Committee. Members are being asked to vote on major changes to the Clean Air Act without any idea what they would do. The provisions in section 112 of the Clean Air Act that control toxic emissions have been an enormous success since they were enacted in 1990. EPA’s regulations under these provisions have required most major sources of air toxics to reduce their emissions, cutting releases of these dangerous chemicals by 1.7 million tons per year. To cite one example, EPA’s actions have resulted in outdoor air concentrations of benzene, a carcinogen, dropping by over 50% since 1994. Chairman Whitfield’s amendment fundamentally alters these provisions as applied to power plants by replacing them with a new approach that appears to be unworkable. Current law requires EPA to set a standard for each regulated pollutant that is no less stringent than the actual emissions levels achieved on average for the best-performing 12% of sources. This approach is data-driven and effective. It has been used to set standards for roughly 100 discrete categories of sources over the past two decades. The new language in Chairman Whitfield’s amendment would require EPA to identify the 12% of sources in a source category that are best-performing “in the aggregate” for all toxic pollutants. This approach is completely untested and would require EPA to make subjective judgments about the value of reducing each different regulated toxic pollutant. There is no standard by which EPA can determine whether a plant that emits more carcinogens but less neurotoxins is better or worse performing than a plant that emits fewer carcinogens but more neurotoxins. Yet EPA would be required to determine, for example, whether a plant that emits 150 pounds of mercury, 100 tons of lead, and 200 pounds of arsenic, is better or worse performing than a plant that emits 200 pounds of mercury, 50 tons of lead and 190 pounds of arsenic, per year. Another change would require EPA to impose the least burdensome regulatory alternative authorized by the Act, including work practice standards, which may replace the entire numeric standard-setting process. The Whitfield amendment makes other changes to the legislation that have not been considered by the Committee. It nullifies, rather than delays, two major air regulations, one finalized and one proposed, requiring EPA to start over on both. It significantly extends the bill’s minimum time periods during which the rules may not be enforced from 15 months to seven years (for the mercury air toxics rule) and eight years (for the cross-state air pollution rule). It prohibits EPA from implementing any new rule under one section of the Act (section 110(a)(2)(D)) to address transported air pollution for at least eight years and bars any such rule under another section (section 126) for at least five years. It also requires EPA to allow unrestricted trading under any such program that is ultimately adopted regardless of whether downwind states actually experience the pollution reductions that are the purpose of such rule. The Committee has held no hearings on the cross-state air pollution rule or the issue of transported emissions. The Committee held one hearing on three air toxics rules, including the utility MACT rule, but that hearing did not address the fundamental changes included in the amendment. No legislative hearing was held on any of this language. This approach to legislating conflicts with our Committee’s proud history of working together to address serious air pollution problems, and it makes a mockery of the Committee hearing process. We urge you to pull your legislation from consideration and hold hearings on it, so that members and the public can understand the effect of your proposal before it is brought to a vote. Sincerely, Henry Waxman Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Energy and Power Related Documents: Letter to Chairmen Upton and Whitfield, September 20, 2011.
09.14.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I want thank all of the commissioners, as well as the other expert witnesses, for appearing before this subcommittee today. “Mr. Chairman, today we are holding a hearing to determine whether or not there is a need to further delay critical Clean Air Act Rules, including the Air Toxics Rule and the Cross State Air Pollution Rule, in order to address grid reliability issues. “Mr. Chairman, in my opinion, this is yet another all out assault and attack on the EPA. It is, if I might borrow my friend from Illinois’ phraseology, yet another ‘Republican jihad assault on the EPA.’ When will it end? I guess not until after the elections in November, 2012. “There has been much debate and widely divergent estimates over grid reliability issues stemming from the number of power plants that would need to be retired once these rules go into effect. “As a matter of fact, some early reports speculated that a large number of power plants, up to 80 GW or more, may be retired as a result of EPA regulations. “However, Mr. Chairman, it must not go unsaid that these reports were based on the worst-case scenarios and the erroneous assumptions about what the EPA might propose. “More recent, independent reports, which look at what the EPA actually proposed, including the Bipartisan Policy Center’s study, entitled “Environmental Regulation and Electric System Reliability,” project only 15-18 GW of incremental coal plant retirements by 2015. “This represents less than six percent of total coal-fired capacity, and less than two percent of total generating capacity. “Additionally, many independent studies predict that these rules, including the Air Toxics Rule and the Cross State Air Pollution Rule, will not threaten the economic health of the nation but, instead, will in fact stimulate job growth while protecting the public health. “Under these new EPA air regulations, a small percentage of the oldest power plants will need to install pollution control equipment to continue operations. “The capital investments in pollution controls and new generation will create an estimated 1.46 million jobs, or an average of 290,000 year-round jobs between 2010 and 2015. It’s job stimulation any way you want to look at it. “Due to abundant, low-priced domestic natural gas supplies and reduced electricity demand, some electricity generators may elect to retire the old, inefficient plants rather than invest capital to install pollution controls. This is not a bad thing, it’s a good thing. “A new report from PJM Interconnection, the nation’s largest transmission operator, says system reliability is not threatened by coal-fired power plant retirements spurred by new EPA rules, despite the coal industry claims that the impacts could be severe. [Here, Mr. Rush introduced for the record a letter from a Houston-based, coal-fired power company that supplies Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) in Illinois.] “Mr. Chairman this company is supportive of the EPA’s rules. “The Congressional Research Service found no evidence of the majority’s predicted ‘train wreck’ but, instead, found that the primary impacts of the EPA rules will be on coal-fired plants, more than 40 years old, that have not installed pollution controls. Many of these plants are inefficient and they should be replaced and they are being replaced regardless of EPA rules. “Additionally, a Charles River Associates’ report concluded that electric system reliability can be maintained, while improving public health, through coal-to-gas conversions, new gas-fired generation, expansion of load management programs, and established market and regulatory safeguards. “And so, Mr. Chairman, I join with you and the rest of the Republican jihadists. I am very eager to hear the testimony from the FERC Commissioners, as well as our other witnesses here, today, over whether the industry, the EPA, and other federal and state agencies have taken practical steps to plan for the implementation of these rules and have adopted approaches to ensure the electric industry can comply without threatening electric system reliability. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's hearing in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Hearing on "EPA and the Power Sector"
09.13.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, today we are marking up two bills, H.R. 2250, the so-called EPA Regulatory Relief Act of 2011, and H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011. “Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, when the minority staff tried to reach out to the majority side to see if we could work together and come up with a bill that both sides could fully support, those efforts were shamefully rebuffed. “As these bills are written, I cannot support either H.R. 2250 or H.R. 2681, because, in the words of Assistant Administrator Gina McCarthy in the subcommittee hearing last week, these bills would be a “direct attack at the core of the Clean Air Act.” “Currently drafted, these bills would indefinitely delay the deadline for when the EPA would need to act on the rules. “Additionally, the language in Section 5 requires the EPA to select the “least burdensome” of the range of regulatory alternatives, even if a more stringent standard is feasible, economically viable, and would provide greater public health protection. “Whether intentionally or not, this provision raises legal uncertainty, since the industry could then argue before the courts that this new language should modify or supersede provisions of the Clean Air Act designed to achieve maximum reductions in toxic air pollution. “Ranking Member Waxman and I both showed interest in trying to hammer out an appropriate compromise with the majority that would address industry concerns, while also providing public health and environmental protections. “Since these efforts were rejected I am compelled to oppose both H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2268 and I ask my colleagues to oppose them as well. “As I stated in last week’s hearing, I believe that protecting the public health should be the absolute top priority of Congress, but I also believe that we must work hard to find the appropriate balance and establish an environment where industry can also succeed and, indeed, flourish. I don’t subscribe to the belief that we are only capable of doing one or the other. “While I realize that not all of my colleagues believe in the merits of science, the experts and the research tell us that we must protect the public health from the toxic air pollutants that are generated from the 200,000-plus industrial, commercial and institutional boilers across the country. “Mr. Chairman, the research also tells us that low-income families and minorities are disproportionately affected by toxic air pollution because they are more likely to live closer to these industrial facilities. “The hazardous air pollutants emitted from these boilers, including mercury and other harmful toxins, can impair brain development, neurological function, and the ability to learn, as well as potentially cause cancer. “These toxins can also lead to respiratory and cardiovascular disease by damaging the kidneys, damaging the lungs, and damaging the nervous system. “Mr. Chairman, this is what the science tells us, and just because we might not like what the science says does not mean that we should disregard scientific facts, evidence and conclusions. “So I will oppose H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2681 and I, indeed, urge all of my colleagues to oppose them as well. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Energy and Power Subcommittee Markup on H.R. 2250 and H.R.2681
09.08.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I trust that you and all of our colleagues got some much needed rest during the August recess, and that you are as excited as I am to be back to continue the important work before this subcommittee. “Mr. Chairman, today, we are holding a hearing on two bills, H.R. 2250, the so-called EPA Regulatory Relief Act of 2011, and H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011. “Mr. Chairman, in the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, Congress directed the EPA to take a technology-based approach to reduce hazardous air pollutants, or HAPs, which are pollutants known or suspected of causing cancer and other serious health effects, such as reproductive and birth defects, neurological effects, and adverse environmental impacts. “For example, mercury is a hazardous air pollutant of particular concern because it is emitted into the air and is then deposited into bodies of water, where it contaminates fish and other aquatic life. “Research shows that pregnant and nursing women, women who may become pregnant, and young children who eat large amounts of mercury-contaminated fish are especially at risk because mercury damages the developing brain and reduces IQ and the ability to learn. “In order to address the entire suite of hazardous air toxics, relatively quickly and using readily available technology, section 112 of the Clean Air Act requires the EPA to develop regulations for distinct source categories, such as power plants, boilers, and cement kilns that set specific emission limits based on the emission levels already being achieved by similar facilities. “These regulations, known as Maximum Achievable Control Technology, or MACT standards, require that for existing sources, the emission standard must be at least as stringent as the average emissions achieved by the best-performing 12 percent of sources in that source category. “As I understand it, the rules targeted by these two pieces of legislation are already years behind the schedule for when they were supposed to have been finalized. “Yet, H.R. 2250 and H.R. 2681 would further delay these rules and push action on them down the road indefinitely. “Besides postponing issuance and implementation of these rules, indefinitely, these two bills would also undermine the EPA’s authority to require application of the best performing emissions control technologies, while also weakening the more-stringent monitoring, reporting and pollution control requirements currently required in the Clean Air Act under section 129. “Mr. Chairman, for many constituents paying attention to the actions of this committee and this Congress, it would appear that the intent of these pieces of legislation is not really to delay these rules, but to kill them altogether, to the benefit of some in the industry and to the detriment of the American public as a whole. “And, so, Mr. Chairman I am waiting to hear the testimony from all our panelists today, because as of yet, it is still unclear why Congress should force EPA to once again to halt or delay implementation of rules that would protect the public health, when everyone, including industry, knew these regulations were coming down the pike for over a decade now. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's hearing in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Hearing on "EPA and the Cement Sector Act"
08.31.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush joined Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan, U. S. Senator Richard Durbin and other state and local elected and appointed officials and community stakeholders in a press briefing and tour of some of the grounds and facilities to be revitalized thanks to Obama Administration resources. Chicago is one of five cities nationwide to receive the first Implementation Grants awarded under HUD’s Choice Neighborhoods Initiative a new strategic approach intended to help transform high-poverty, distressed neighborhoods into communities with healthy, affordable housing, safe streets, and access to quality educational opportunities. In remarks at this morning’s announcement, Rush delivered the following remarks about an initiative that will help revitalize and historic and important part of his congressional district. “Secretary Donovan, Mayor Emanuel, Senator Durbin, dignitaries and friends I want to officially welcome you to the First Congressional District of Illinois and to the historically significant Woodlawn community. Secretary Donovan, I hope before you leave that you will meet some of the 27,000 people who live here. They are hardworking, honest and very determined to hold on to this community that they love. “In 2005, some of the residents of the Grove Parc development reached out to me in a crisis. Their building had been poorly managed and was hardly fit for anybody to live in. We helped them to organize, we held an affordable housing summit and we trained the residents to become effective advocates for themselves and their families. “Using a highly sophisticated business model they then accepted submissions from developers. They chose the Preservation of Affordable Housing (POAH) team, out of Boston, to manage and begin the process of rebuilding their community. The Grove Parc tenants were clear that ‘community’ meant much more than just housing. They wanted good schools, grocery stores safety, health care and neighbors who shared their values. “The tenants pressured me to pressure HUD to forgive a $12 million mortgage so that POAH could begin its renovation. Last year, we knocked down the old and began building a new Woodlawn Park Development. That brings us to today. “Here we stand, in the midst of a tough economy and hard times with something to celebrate. Here we stand, with 67 New Units built and more on the way. Here we stand, with a $30 million investment in the future that will pay tremendous dividends for the American taxpayers. “Here we stand, a powerful reminder of what an organized and determined community can do…if they have just a little bit of help. “I am proud that I was able to do my part. I am proud that the Grove Parc tenants thought enough of me to reach out. I am proud of the future that they are creating for themselves. “There are those in political circles who want to demonize community organizing. But not here. In this neighborhood the legacies of organizers like Mattie Butler, Rev. Arthur Brazier, Rev. Leon Finney, Saul Alinsky and many others are alive and well and should be studied in high schools and colleges across America now and for generations to come. “The Grove Parc Tenants could teach us all about the true meaning of community. The Woodlawn Community grew out of the Columbian Exposition of 1893. It was also home to African Americans who came to Chicago, from the South, during the Great Migration. Famous author Lorraine Hansberry grew up in Woodlawn and wrote A Raisin In The Sun, a powerful play that spoke to the struggles and aspirations of an entire people. That struggle for fairness and equality continues but I think I see some progress here today. “I think I see some jobs being created here today. “I think I see the results of some organizing here today. “I think I will soon see working men and women coming home to a safe, comfortable and rebuilt Woodlawn Community. “Thanks to the Choice Neighborhoods Grant I believe that what I see and what the Grove Parc Tenants saw is coming very soon.” # # #
08.26.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO –– Today, only 48 hours from the planned dedication of the new, national memorial to the life and legacy of the iconic martyr of the Civil Rights Movement, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush reflected on the power and importance of this unique moment in national history as an invited guest contributor to The Hill newspaper. While the planned dedication ceremony, on Sunday, August 28 was postponed due to the threat posed by Hurricane Irene, Rush’s words and others are featured in a set of reflections by national leaders on the life, legacy and enduring leadership of the slain pastor, author, father and leader of a movement that extends to this day. While King’s legacy endures, Rush argues that his life’s mission has yet to be fulfilled. Here’s a link to the Congressman’s tribute in The Hill entitled, "The King Memorial is Finished, His Life's Work is Not." # # #
08.09.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov "More than 4,700 people registered to participate in this two-day event and, this morning,about 1,000 people lined up before the doors opened at 10 a.m. Don't tell me the people don't want to work!" CHICAGO –– This morning, on the heels of a successful ‘Day 1’ jobs event yesterday, for certified MBE/WBE contractors, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush briefed the media on the results of yesterday’s Vendor Fair at Kennedy-King College while also outlining what he hoped to accomplish at today’s event for job seekers. “Yesterday, our entire city saw first-hand the professionalism, the passion and the determination of qualified minority- and women-owned contractors,” said Rush who, along with his colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus are holding similar jobs events throughout the United States in the month of August. “Several weeks ago, my staff and I identified 27 transportation companies that are planning to hire more than 2,000 new employees. We found that freight trains are rolling. Many of our biggest rail companies are making profits and they’re hiring. It’s a hopeful sign for the economy. “Between yesterday and today, however, I hope what our city and the entire nation sees is that people in this community, and thousands of others like it, want to work. It’s a canard to say that our people don’t want to work and, likewise, that federal expenditures don’t make a difference. Our office has had more than 4,700 people register on our website to attend today’s event and dozens more have called all three of my offices. Yesterday, we had solid participation from qualified contractors and more than a dozen public and private agencies and companies who have contract dollars to award. And this morning in the sweltering heat, before the doors opened at 10 a.m., we had well over a thousand men and women of all ages show up on the parking lot with their suits on, their clothes pressed and resumes in hand. Why? Because they’re ready to work! “Those who perpetuate the myth that the public sector has no role in stimulating the economy should simply get out of the public sector because they’re wrong! The response in this community by those with jobs and those who are seeking jobs and contracting opportunities prove it. As a member of Congress, I’m proud of the work we’ve done under this President to allocate the dollars necessary in the public sector that can, in turn, attract private sector resources and investment in jobs.” Congressman Rush identified 27 transportation sector companies that are planning to hire thousands of workers for new jobs. The companies that are hiring include railroads, airlines, trucking, public transit, hauling and other transportation businesses. In addition, companies working on rail and highway infrastructure improvements in Chicago and Northeastern Illinois will also be present. Some of the job interviews will occur as part of the CREATE Program, a $3 billion project aimed at reducing railroad congestion and improving the air quality for residents living near train yards. The new construction of bridges and tracks will be an economic driver for the Chicago community and the 1st Congressional District for at least a decade. This economic development is expected to lay the foundation for the Midwestern portion of our nation’s high speed rail system. “I believe that people who get hired at the start of this railroad infrastructure project will, potentially, have work for decades. The transportation sector is doing well and I believe their growth is an early indicator of an economic recovery,” said Rush. “I’m grateful for the 27 transportation companies, associations and federal agencies who stepped up to the plate today to meet the people of my community one-on-one. But I want the naysayers to note that sitting side by side with the private sector are managers and recruiters from Federal Railroad Administration, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association as well as representatives from the U.S. Air Force, the United States Army, the Coast Guard and the U.S. Marine Corps. These are essential government agencies, staffed by outstanding professionals and, yes, paid for by our tax dollars. All of the resources from our great nation—from the public and private sectors—are essential to the growth and stability of our nation. “I am grateful to the leadership of Kennedy-King College and Chicago State University who have so graciously made their space available for this important two-day event. My hope and prayer is that all those who showed up yesterday and today will find work as a result of the work we’ve done over the last 48 hours.” # # # NOTE: Here’s a link to a list of participating employers as posted on our website.
08.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov"...Next Monday and Tuesday are going to be very important days in Chicago...These companies are serious, I'm serious, and if you're serious about really working, then Tuesday morning at Chicago State is the place to be. The doors open at 8 a.m." CHICAGO –– “As I’m sure you know this has been a very frustrating and difficult time in Washington. While democracy is inherently messy and our divided government was ingeniously crafted to provide checks and balances on power, our inability to get even the most basic lawmaking done damages our country. Every day my constituents write and call to describe painful setbacks and economic frustration. The United States House of Representatives has not passed a single jobs bill in this Congress. “Nonetheless, I have kept my focus on the number one issue impacting this nation and my district and that is jobs. In the last Congress, I convened the House Congressional “Jobs Now” Caucus, a bi-partisan caucus of over 100 members. We worked to bring fresh ideas to the table to help spur job creation in the United States.“This year, I introduced legislation to stimulate jobs for our nation’s youth and, in May, I led a march on Washington of over 800 youth from around the country. But I’m clear that legislation, rallies and marches alone cannot fix this situation. So I put my staff to work and, together, we identified 26 transportation companies that are planning to hire more than 2,000 new employees. We found that freight trains are rolling. Many of our biggest rail companies are making profits and they’re hiring. It’s a hopeful sign for the economy. “In addition, the Federal Railroad Administration has just issued $336 million for the purchase of new trains. They are going to be built in America. “The companies that are buying are in Illinois and that will mean work for our residents. When we were done with our research, we had identified a whole lot of jobs, and I mean good paying jobs in the transportation sector!“So, today, I am happy to announce that on Tuesday, August 9, we are having a Transportation Industry Jobs Fair at Chicago State University in the Jones Convocation Center. From 10 a.m. in the morning until 4 p.m. in the afternoon, the companies will be there to meet people face to face. These are recruiters, managers and executives from the railroads, airlines, trucking companies and public transit of all kinds, who are hiring! Some of them are here with me today.“Many have already begun to accept resumes and applications on line. My website will link you to the employers. Now, again, that event is on Tuesday, August 9.“On Monday, August 8, we are having a Vendor Fair at Kennedy King College, in the Great Hall, for contractors who are already certified as Disadvantaged Business Enterprises. We are going to teach them how to properly apply for contracts and get bonding. I am teaming with METRA to help these contractors and small business owners learn how to meet the requirements to participate in the work on The Englewood Flyover Bridge that is being built at 61st and State Street.“This is a $133 million project! It is critical to me that the residents of my district have an opportunity to bid on some of these contracts.“To sum it up, next Monday and Tuesday are going to be very important days in Chicago. Our Vendor Fair on Monday, from 9 a.m. until noon at Kennedy King College, will be open to contractors with DBE Certification. “On Tuesday, at Chicago State University, a Transportation Jobs Fair that is open to anybody looking for a job. Go on line at https://rush.house.gov for tickets and to submit applications and resumes. “These companies are serious, I’m serious. If you’re serious about really working, then Tuesday morning at Chicago State is the place to be. The doors open at 8 a.m. “Remember, it’s contractors on Monday and job hunters on Tuesday. Please help us get the word out. “Thank you and now I’ll respond to questions.”# # #
08.04.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) lent his voice to that of a growing number of his congressional colleagues who are urging House Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and the Chairmen of the respective House and Senate Transportation committees to come together to end the stalemate that has resulted in the partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “It is the height of irresponsibility for the United States Congress to be in recess while thousands of families’ lives are being disrupted by the loss of income associated with the failure of the Congress to extend the FAA authorization,” said Rush, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Each day that goes by marks an interruption to the jobs and income of more than 4,000 FAA employees and untold numbers of small businesses and suppliers who rely on this employee base for their livelihood. This stalemate has led to the furlough of approximately 4,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) employees, who keep our airline system one of the best in the world and they deserve so much better than this. I urge House and Senate leaders to use all of the legislative tools at their disposal including calling Members back to vote to resolve this matter if necessary.” The impact of inaction is particularly harmful to our already fragile economy. The U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has issued 258 stop work orders on airport construction projects totaling over $10.5 billion. In addition to the 4,000 FAA employees, Congress’ refusal to act has also sidelined more than 90,000 airport construction jobs. In the state of Illinois, the estimated economic impact if this stalemate continues could be as much as $90.3 million in lost airport construction funding, 3,141 lost airport construction jobs and 145 FAA employee jobs lost. Rush added, “Thousands of Americans are looking at the actions of this Congress and they expect their leaders to lead. Now is the time to show them that we can.”# # #
08.02.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– An iconic Chicago gospel artist and part of the acclaimed Barrett sisters, DeLois Barrett Campbell, died today at a Chicago hospital. Campbell, along with her sisters Billie Barrett GreenBey and Rodessa Barrett Porter, were internationally known as The Barrett Sisters, a trio whose powerful voices lifted hearts and spirits throughout the United States and in several nations around the world often as ambassadors for our country. Delois Barrett Campbell was the oldest of the three and she was 85 years old at the time of her death.Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush reflected on his friend and fellow traveler in the gospel of Jesus Christ, with these words, “DeLois Barrett Campbell was an amazing talent, a committed Christian and a dynamic presence in gospel music in the United States and beyond. “She and her sisters used the gifts that God gave them to spread His gospel on a global stage and, in doing so, helped blaze a trail for other talented artists to follow. They lifted their voices in praise during challenging times in the 1960s and they have a legacy of music that extends from that era to today. After their artistry was featured in the documentary film, “Say Amen Somebody,” their talents were recognized on a global stage and I count myself among their many fans who are grateful for the recognition and honor they brought to our city, state and nation. My heart goes out to her family and loved ones as they mourn her loss. My wife, Carolyn, and I join a grateful city and international community of faith in mourning her loss and we extend our sincere condolences to her family and loved ones.”# # #
08.01.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov“…not raising the debt ceiling would have destabilized American households and increased worries and concerns among many hard-hit seniors, the unemployed and physically ill Americans. As an elected official and a pastor, my first obligation is always to do no harm.”WASHINGTON –– Tonight, after giving serious and sober consideration to the merits of the bill before him, a bill that wound its way through the legislative process under the Tea Party-inspired threat of forcing the United States government to default on its debt, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush cast a “yes” vote in support of the compromise legislation diligently crafted between the President of the United States and a bipartisan group of U. S. House and Senate leaders. The measure passed 269 to 161 and was sent to the Senate for final adoption. Here is Rush’s statement explaining the merits of his “yes” vote.“There are four principles that guided my decision. First, by voting ‘yes’ I stand in support of the President and bipartisan leaders who were determined to avert a fiscal crisis of major proportions.“Second, I realize that not raising the debt ceiling would have destabilized American households and increased worries and concerns among many hard-hit seniors, the unemployed and physically ill Americans. As an elected official and a pastor, my first obligation is always to do no harm.“Third, the American people have invested their hopes in us as their elected leaders and representatives. They are counting on us to revive a still fragile economic recovery. They look to us to create more jobs that give them personal dignity and the ability to take care of their families. They look to us to provide the leadership necessary to restore business, consumer and investor confidence in the financial safety and security of the United States government and its commercial markets. I take seriously my leadership position on the Energy and Commerce Committee and I have always stood on the side of policies and legislation that uphold these values.“And, fourth, the compromise legislation I’m supporting creates a clear path forward for the U.S. economy over the course of the next 18 months while also providing policy parameters that will determine how Congress will proceed in raising the debt limit in a way that is the least destructive to the American people.”# # #NOTE: To see the final vote results click here.
07.30.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov“Make no mistake about it, the actions of the extremists in the House are stone cold political in nature and they are totally focused on what they think they can accomplish in 2012. They seem determined to drive our nation’s economy off a cliff…”WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush voted in favor of H.R. 2693, “The Bipartisan Budget Control Act,” the initial debt ceiling proposal of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. The legislation failed on a 246 to 173 vote in the House. Afterwards, the President and top legislative leaders continued to meet through the weekend to find a way forward.“I’m voting for the Reid proposal that came to the House floor today because it’s the right thing to do. Bipartisan leaders in the U. S. Senate offered the House compromise legislation to provide our nation with a pathway out of the current stalemate while raising the debt ceiling. The bill I voted for today would enable us to pay our debts on time, cut more than $2.4 trillion from our deficit over the next decade, and avoid another serious economic dip which surely awaits us if the debt ceiling is not raised by August 2. “Our nation’s economy has already been harmed, perhaps even irreparably, by the misguided antics of the Tea Party and their submissive Republican Party leadership. Global financial markets and investors, many of whom are American financial institutions and public investors, must have certainty that the United States will pay its debts.“I’m voting for this legislation because it protects Social Security and Medicaid benefits and it represents a bipartisan victory for the cooler heads that prevailed in the Senate. Let me be clear. While I supported this bill, any future votes I cast will be taken on the merits of the bills before me.“I strongly believe that President Obama should use the full force of his executive and constitutional powers to save the nation from the pending financial calamity caused by the extreme elements of the Republican Party. As much as I am discouraged by the immaturity, irresponsibility, and unreasonableness of the Republican House majority and its on-again, off-again alliance with Tea Party radicals, I am encouraged that the President will rise to the occasion and fill the gaping void that now exists in Congressional leadership to lead our country forward, not backward. “Make no mistake about it, the actions of the extremists in the House are stone cold political in nature and they are totally focused on what they think they can accomplish in 2012. They seem determined to drive our nation’s economy off a cliff and, when confronted with hostile and irresponsible behavior, I believe President Obama should do what any responsible executive would do under those circumstances and put an end to the nonsense.”Rush added that the Reid proposal from the Senate would also have protected Social Security Medicare and Medicaid benefit cuts without extending tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires who Rush said, “should be at the end of the line when it comes to government entitlements and corporate giveaways as they are the last Americans needing tax and other relief as America stares at debts growing so unsustainably that sudden fiscal crisis becomes inevitable.”# # #NOTE: To see the final vote results click here.
07.29.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov“People should understand that ‘cuts’ and ‘caps’ are the same thing...There wasnever a set of circumstances that would have led me to vote for this ill-conceived, uncaring, asymmetrical and cobbled together legislation.”WASHINGTON –– Today, in a 218 to 210 vote, a sharply divided House advanced to the Senate legislation that purports to raise the debt ceiling but, in fact, represents a giant step backwards. The Boehner Plan, which was literally pieced together earlier this afternoon, reflects the narrow interests of Tea Party extremists and a compliant Republican leadership. These strange bedfellows passed legislation that inflicts fiscal damage on a recovering economy that has racked up huge deficits, due to a series of wrong-headed decisions inflicted on our nation by the previous Administration. Those decisions, including engaging our country in costly military diversions and the eager push to shift money from the wallets of middle- class and low-income families to the savings and inheritance accounts of millionaires and billionaires is still weighing down our nation’s recovery. “There was never a set of circumstances that would have led me to vote for this ill-conceived, uncaring, asymmetrical and cobbled together legislation. People should understand that ‘cuts’ and ‘caps’ are the same thing. The elimination of these resources will hurt the most vulnerable people in our country. I will never support any laws that punish the least of these. Government must always fight to improve the lives of hardworking people and it must protect the most vulnerable among us especially senior citizens and children. This should be our top priority in everything we do.”Over the course of the last week, Rush’s offices were bombarded with more than 300 calls from constituents. More than 90 percent of those calls were in favor of a bipartisan compromise that spared Social Security and other entitlement programs. “I want my constituents to know that I will continue to work with leaders in the House, on both sides of the aisle if possible, to ensure that we raise the debt ceiling so that we can put an end to the economic harm this policy battle is wreaking. Now is the time to reassure the American people that their leaders in the House have their best interests at heart. Tonight, those who voted in support of S. 627 failed in that regard.” # # #NOTE: To see the final vote results click here.
07.27.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I must commend you and the majority side for working with the minority side on the Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act to greatly improve this bill since we held our last hearing. “The amendment in the nature of a substitute reflects many improvements to the draft and brings this version more into alliance with the Senate bill, which has also received bipartisan support. “Some of the highlights of this bill include Section 4, which would require PHMSA to issue regulations subjecting offshore hazardous liquid gathering lines to the same standards as other hazardous liquid pipelines. “Section 5 requires PHMSA to issue regulations requiring the use of remote-controlled or automatic shut-off valves, or equivalent technology, for newly-constructed transmission pipelines where economically, technically and operationally feasible. “In fact, this bill goes a step farther than the Senate bill by requiring PHMSA to conduct an analysis of a transmission pipeline operator’s ability to respond to leaks in high consequence areas, including a consideration of the costs, risks, and benefits of retrofitting existing transmission pipelines with automatic or remote-controlled shut-off valves. “One area where we may continue to work on, however, is Section 8, which does not require PHMSA to ensure the public availability of industry-developed or professional organization safety standards. “However, similar to the Senate bill, Section 10 requires PHMSA to study leak detection systems and, based on that study, issue regulations requiring hazardous liquid pipelines to use leak detection systems. “Again, this bill goes beyond the Senate version by also requiring those regulations to establish standards for the capability of leak detection systems. “In fact, I think we should include similar language in Section 21, which requires PHMSA to conduct a comprehensive study for transporting hazardous liquids, such as diluted bitumen used for the transportation of tar sands oil, but does not include the next step of requiring PHMSA to implement new rules based off of these findings. “Overall, I am pleased with the progress that the two sides have made on the pipeline safety bill. “Mr. Chairman, I do have to admit that I was a little surprised to find out that we were also marking up the Energy and Revenue Enrichment Act today. “In our last discussion on this bill, we had agreed to send a letter to GAO to find out the best way to move forward on the uranium tails issue to ensure that taxpayers were getting a fair deal. “It is my understanding that the GAO letter never went out and so that leaves me in a difficult position, here, today. “While I would like to work with you to address this issue, I need to be sure that we are doing what is in the best interests of the American taxpayers and many of the concerns that Mr. Waxman and I laid out have not been adequately addressed. So I do not know how I can support that bill here today. “However, I must give credit where it’s due and the majority has worked with our side in addressing many of our concerns in the pipeline safety bill and I am prepared to support that bill, here, today. “Hopefully, this bill can be a model for future legislation coming before this subcommittee. “And with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may review today's markup proceeding in its entirety, including the webcast, by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Markup on "Pipeline Infrastructure Act & Energy and Revenue Enrichment Act"
07.26.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov"This bill would severely curtail the ability of the Environmental Protection Agency to protect the public health of the American people and would disproportionately impact those living in the communities we represent."WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, circulated a "Dear Colleague" letter signed by Rush and seven House members aimed at defeating back-door attempts by the House Republicans to roll back and undermine key Clean Air Act regulations lawfully adopted and enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).Through a series of legislative “riders” House Republican leaders are attempting, through the appropriations process, to accomplish what they could not do by using the normal legislative course for authorizing government agency action. Essentially, these back-door riders would eliminate funding for EPA enforcement authority, which has been affirmed repeatedly by the courts. If passed into law, this bill would severely curtail the ability of the EPA to protect the public health of the American people and would be especially harmful to the health and well-being of those living in low-income, predominantly minority communities.Rush, whose legacy of leadership on local and national energy and environmental policy extends to his days as a Chicago City councilman, outlined his concerns with H.R. 2584 in his "Dear Colleague." That statement, reprinted below, was also shared with leading environmental organizations, including Environment Illinois, with an appeal for constituents and concerned citizens to contact their elected representatives and urge them to vote against this harmful legislation. The message in the “Dear Colleague” letter is as follows:July 26, 2011 Dear Colleague:We are writing to urge you to oppose H.R. 2584, the FY 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. This bill would severely curtail the ability of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to protect the public health of the American people and would disproportionately impact those living in the communities we represent. In addition to draconian funding cuts, the bill also includes numerous anti-environment riders that would permit polluters to continue harming the public health. We strongly urge you to oppose this bill to ensure that the EPA is able to protect the public from harmful pollutants like mercury and arsenic.Underserved communities are particularly vulnerable to air pollution and disproportionately suffer from asthma. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), “low-income populations, minorities, and children living in inner cities experience more emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and deaths due to asthma than the general population.” In fact, according to the American Lung Association (ALA), asthma attacks send African Americans to the emergency room at more than three times the rate of white Americans and almost 1 in 10 African American children suffer from asthma.These results are not limited to African Americans. According to a 2006 CDC study, 12.7% of Hispanic children have asthma compared to 8% of non-Hispanic white children. A 2010 CDC report found that 21.1% of Puerto Ricans have received a lifetime diagnosis of asthma. In a separate study, a California Healthy Kids Survey found that lifetime asthma diagnosis among the 11 Asian American Pacific Islander subgroups ranged from 10.9% among Korean American students to 23.8% among Filipino American students.Additionally, a 2000 American Lung Association report found that a disproportionate number of minority children live in areas with high ozone levels. Approximately 61.3 percent of African-American children, 69.2 percent of Hispanic children and 67.7 percent of Asian-American children live in areas that exceed the 0.08 parts per million federal ozone standard. By comparison, 50.8 percent of white children live in such areas.These findings are not surprising when one considers the fact that many low-income communities are located near coal-fired power plants. According to a 2002 Clean the Air report using 2000 Census data, 68% of African Americans live within 30 miles of a coal-fired power plant. Coal-fired plants produce over 67% of the sulfur dioxide (SO2) and over one-third of the mercury pollution generated in the U.S. SO2 can be inhaled deep into the lungs, thus affecting respiratory and cardiovascular systems and along with nitrogen oxide or NOx emissions are strongly associated with asthma. A 2002 study by Clear the Air and Physicians for Social Responsibility estimated that 30 percent of childhood asthma is due to environmental exposures, costing the nation $2 billion per year. Mercury, on the other hand, is not inhaled but rather contaminates fish that when consumed by expectant mothers can affect the fetus and produce numerous adverse cognitive issues.However, in blatant disregard to these impacts, H.R. 2584 contains numerous anti-environment riders that would preclude the EPA from carrying out its mission under the Clean Air Act to prevent toxic emissions from the very power plants that so seriously harm those living in our communities. Among these riders, the bill contains language that would prevent the EPA from finalizing or implementing its Toxics and Cross State Air Pollution Rules. This provision was included despite the fact that many utilities have championed the rules and have cleaned up their operations in expectation of them. But this rider, like too many others in the bill, has been written to satisfy a vocal minority of coal-burning utilities that put profits ahead of lives.The funding reductions are also very problematic and appear to have been designed to render the EPA a toothless tiger against those special interests that would pollute our communities. The bill cuts $1.5 billion, nearly 20%, from the EPA’s budget. But such a cut seems penny wise and pound foolish when one considers that the costs of treating asthma, in children alone, is over $3 billion per year. This bill pushes our nation’s environmental efforts in exactly the wrong direction at a time when we cannot afford further ill-health effects from pollution.Please join us in supporting the public health of our communities by opposing this harmful appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration.Sincerely, Bobby L. Rush Michael M. HondaMember of Congress Member of Congress Raul M. Grijalva John Conyers, Jr.Member of Congress Member of Congress Alcee L. Hastings Jessie Jackson, Jr.Member of Congress Member of Congress Laura Richardson Grace F. NapolitanoMember of Congress Member of Congress
07.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov "Own whatever you can. We need more ownership and less renters.”WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) spoke to more than 200 minority and women business leaders encouraging them to become fully engaged in the technologies that are changing our world. Here is a recap of his remarks as delivered this morning at the Westin Georgetown Hotel in Washington, D.C.Rush Praises MMTC’s leadership…“Good morning and thank you so very much for welcoming me here this morning. This is one of those organizations that is very, very close to my heart. Yours is an organization that I have the utmost respect for and I feel as though I’m obligated to be of service to you whenever the need arises. David Honig has been a long-term friend and supporter of mine. I want to thank him for all of his activities on my behalf, particularly when I was running for the Ranking Member of the subcommittee on telecommunications in the new congress and he was right there. And my friend who is a sister beloved to me, Julia Johnson, is a remarkable force of nature for good. I always enjoy reading about her, hearing about her and collaborating with her on issues facing the American people and facing minorities in particular.Recent energy issues…“I am going to be very brief because I do have responsibilities on Capitol Hill. We are having a hearing on pipeline safety legislation, this morning, which is something that is extremely important to the American people. And I really just want to take a moment to ask you to really look at the American pipeline industry to see where you might find a fit. There is a scarcity of minorities who are involved as are many others. As Americans, we need to realize the opportunities in this sector. Our nation needs more domestic energy sources and there’s going to have to be more pipeline production, design and repair work. There are billions of dollars getting ready to be spent on pipeline production and one measure that’s before the Congress is whether or not there’s going to be an XL pipeline that would extend from Canada all the way down to New Orleans. And, so, that’s about 2,500 miles of pipeline that’s going to have to be laid. Somebody’s going to have to lay it! And I, certainly, would like to see some African Americans designing it and being engineers on the pipeline project in the future. Which leads me to my prepared remarks.Small businesses in the global economy…“Small firms are clearly the most important factor in the American economy. They’re important to the economy and they’re important to the workers in the economy. Small businesses represent almost 100%, or, more precisely 99.7 percent of all employer firms. They employ just over half of all private sector employees, pay 44 percent of total U.S. private payroll, and have generated 64 percent of net new jobs over the past 15 years. These are small firms. And I’m going to have to disagree with my friend Leo Hindery [he spoke earlier]. Go for ownership if ownership is available. If you’ve got an eye for ownership, go for ownership. I don’t care where it is. I have to say, you know, to pull upon my pastoral and biblical references. When God told Abraham to leave and go into the land of milk and honey, he didn’t say go and rent in the land of the milk and honey, he said go and possess it! And when he prayed for mankind he said have dominion. Don’t rent, have dominion. Don’t be employed by it but own it, alright? And, so, Leo, I’m going to have to disagree with you. Own whatever you can. We need more ownership and less renters. O.k.Main street businesses have had a tough go of it in our prolonged, recessionary economy of the past few years. Not to mention the millions of dependent employees and customers who have suffered sharp paycheck cuts, dramatic layoffs, severe inventory reductions and credit and asset write-downs and write-offs. So the major questions surrounding access to capital are can the main street businesses, small businesses accept the capital and the credit that they need to grow and to create jobs? Can they access the capital and credit that they need? How can main street businesses negotiate existing credit and equity markets which have not been functioning well for some time in order to commercialize their innovations and take advantage of fleeting market opportunities? And, what can government do in today’s uncertain economy to ensure more owners of existing small businesses that take on extra risks that are sometimes needed to secure capital and to hire more employees?Let me just say that I really reflected on this and I’ll mention one of the things I want to do in terms of helping you to get more access to capital. I think this will be something that if we work on this idea that I have, vigorously and with some commitment, I think we might be successful.Last week, I was authorized by the House of Representatives to create the Congressional Access to Capital Caucus. One of the things this Caucus can do is to bring together the different stakeholders, business groups and different investors. We can bring those folks together on Capitol Hill, alright, to talk about how to help new entrepreneurs gain access to capital using some of the capital resources that they might not have in hand. I think this would be a terrific way to marry entrepreneurs with those who have a command of capital and to sit down and have some meaningful dialogue and, perhaps, lead to some very useful deals. And, so, I would invite you to join with me and let’s make this Access to Capital Caucus something that really works on behalf of you and on behalf of American entrepreneurs.A commitment to action…My job as I see it in Congress, my job is to help create millionaires and billionaires who look like me, who represent the same kind of folk that I represent and that’s not to say that others can’t be in it. We want to include others but I know that part of the problem that I face on a day to day basis, both as a pastor and also as a politician, is the fact that we don’t have enough jobs circulating in and around districts like mine, in the City of Chicago and across the nation. And, so, a part of my role is that during my time upon this Earth, if I can help create some entrepreneurs, some millionaires then I know that I should also be able to help create some jobs, and some job holders, and that’s my desired goal.”# # #NOTE: A complete transcript of Rush’s remarks will soon be posted to his website and Facebook page.
07.21.2011	Committee on Energy and CommerceRep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member For Immediate Release: July 21, 2011Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-5735Sharon Jenkins/Renee Ferguson (Rush): (202) 225-4372Reps. Waxman and Rush: Policy Riders in FY2012 Appropriations Bill Jeopardize Public HealthWashington, DC —Today Reps. Henry A. Waxman and Bobby L. Rush sent a letter to Chairman Fred Upton expressing concerns about 16 policy riders included in the FY2012 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations which is currently pending consideration in the House. These policy riders, which fall within the committee’s jurisdiction, would impact standards governing coal ash, toxic air emissions from power plants, and carbon pollution from motor vehicles and industrial sources, among other public health matters. In the letter, Reps. Waxman and Rush urge Chairman Upton “to protect public health and defend the jurisdiction of [the] Committee by objecting to the inclusion of these policy riders in the Appropriations process.” The full text of the letter is below and also available online here.July 21, 2011The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Upton: We are writing to express our concern about the FY2012 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill currently pending consideration in the House. This legislation would place the health of the American people in jeopardy by allowing for increased pollution and decreased accountability for polluters. As described below, the Appropriations Committee is writing national policy on at least 16 matters within our Committee’s jurisdiction through the use of spending limitations and the inclusion of legislation in the Appropriations process. These policy decisions should be made through regular order, including full consideration by our Committee. In one case, the Appropriators have included language reported by our Committee, but otherwise they are running roughshod over the prerogatives of our Committee and the legislative process. We urge you to protect public health and defend the jurisdiction of our Committee by objecting to the inclusion of these policy riders in the Appropriations process. Carbon Pollution from Power Plants and Other Industrial Sources Section 431 of the Interior Appropriations bill prohibits EPA, for the one-year period dating from enactment, from proposing or promulgating regulations to reduce carbon pollution from stationary sources to address climate change. The bill would halt EPA’s ongoing rulemakings to establish minimum pollution control requirements for new and modified utility and refinery facilities, two of the largest industrial sources of carbon pollution in the United States. This overturns recent litigation settlement agreements in which EPA committed to promulgating performance standards for utilities and refineries in 2011 and 2012, respectively.[1] Section 431 also bars EPA and states from implementing carbon pollution pre-construction permit requirements, which require new and modified industrial facilities to be energy-efficient. Specifically, for the one-year period, these provisions would nullify any regulatory provision requiring a pre-construction permit for emissions of carbon pollution from a stationary source and any permit condition on carbon pollution issued before the enactment of the Appropriations bill. Section 431 also prohibits any permit from including federally enforceable conditions for carbon pollution if the permit application was submitted within one year from the date of enactment. In addition, the bill prevents anyone from bringing suit under federal or state common law or civil tort on the basis that carbon pollution causes climate change or the potential impacts of climate change. Carbon Pollution from Motor Vehicles Congressman Austria’s amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill, adopted in full committee, prohibits EPA from developing or finalizing new carbon pollution or other greenhouse gas emission standards for motor vehicles after model year 2016. On April 1, 2010, EPA and NHTSA issued joint final rules establishing standards for greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy for model year 2012-2016 passenger cars, light-duty-trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles. EPA and NHTSA project that this program will reduce U.S. carbon pollution by 960 million metric tons and save 1.8 billion barrels of oil. Consumers will save more than $3,000 over the lifetime of a model year 2016 vehicle.[2] The Appropriations language will prevent EPA from expanding this program to future model years and prohibits EPA from granting a waiver to states to allow them to adopt such standards. This will stop state and federal efforts already in progress. On January 24, 2011, EPA, NHTSA, and the state of California announced a single timeframe for proposing fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards for model year 2017-2025 cars and light-duty trucks.[3] EPA and NHTSA already have issued a notice of intent to conduct a joint rulemaking to establish such standards.[4] Based on preliminary estimates, EPA and NHTSA project that more stringent fleet-wide emissions and fuel economy standards would save consumers up to $7,400 over the lifetime of a model year 2025 vehicle car. At the same time, new standards would save up to 1.3 billion barrels of oil and reduce carbon pollution by up to 590 million metric tons over the lifetime of model year 2025 vehicles.[5] The Appropriations language also will eliminate funding to begin implementation of medium- and heavy-duty truck carbon pollution standards for model years 2014-2018. In November 2010, EPA and NHTSA proposed the first-ever program to reduce carbon pollution and improve fuel economy of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, such as the largest pickup trucks and vans, semi trucks, and all types and sizes of work trucks and buses in between. EPA and NHTSA estimate that the proposed standards would reduce carbon pollution by nearly 250 million metric tons and save approximately 500 million barrels of oil over the life of vehicles sold between 2014 and 2018. The standards also would provide truckers with an estimated $35 billion in net benefits.[6]Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Livestock Section 428 of the Interior Appropriations bill prohibits funds for the promulgation or implementation of any regulation requiring a Title V permit under the Clean Air Act for emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, or other gases resulting from biological processes associated with livestock production. In testimony before the House Agriculture Committee on March 10, 2011, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson stated that it was a “myth” that EPA is planning on regulating greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural sources.[7] Section 429 of the Interior Appropriations bill prohibits EPA from implementing any rule provision that requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from manure management systems, which are lagoons, pits, and other systems used to store livestock manure. Under EPA’s Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases rule, owners or operators of facilities that contain a manure management system that emits at least 25,000 metric tons or more of greenhouse gases must calculate and report their emissions. This reporting requirement applies only to the country’s largest livestock operations. Farms with fewer than 29,000 beef cattle, fewer than 7 million turkeys, or fewer than 38 million broiler hens do not have to report. Exempting even the largest facilities from reporting will prevent EPA from understanding and quantifying methane emissions from these major sources. Congress placed a similar funding restriction on EPA in the final FY2010 appropriations legislation, and EPA is not currently implementing the reporting requirements with respect to manure management systems.Transported Air Pollution Congresswoman Lummis’s amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill, adopted in full committee, prohibits EPA from implementing the just-finalized Cross-State Air Pollution Rule. This rule is designed to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides that contribute to air quality problems in downwind states. EPA estimates that this rule will prevent up to 34,000 premature deaths, 15,000 heart attacks, 400,000 cases of aggravated asthma, and 1.8 million sick days a year beginning in 2014 – achieving up to $280 billion in annual health benefits.[8]Toxic Emissions from Power Plants The Lummis amendment would also block EPA from finalizing a rule reducing emissions of mercury and other toxics from power plants. EPA’s air toxics rule, proposed on March 16, 2011, would reduce power plant emissions of heavy metals, including mercury, arsenic, and chromium, and acid gases, including hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride. These toxic air pollutants are known or suspected to cause cancer, developmental damage in babies and children, and other serious health effects. The proposed rule would reduce emissions of mercury, preventing 90% of the mercury in the coal from being emitted into the air, and cut emissions of other toxic air pollutants and fine particles.[9] EPA estimates the monetized benefits of this proposed rule to be between $59 billion and $140 billion in 2016.[10]New Study of EPA Regulations In addition, the Lummis amendment directs the EPA to conduct a biased and burdensome study of EPA regulations, which is similar to the study required by H.R. 2401, which was voted to be reported out of the Committee on July 12, 2011. This amendment directs EPA to examine the cumulative cost impacts, but not the cumulative benefits, of important regulations and individual permits issued by EPA, states, and localities to protect public health and the environment. The economic analysis contemplated by this bill would be full of guesswork and assumptions that could dramatically over- or under-estimate the true costs of the programs.Texas Air Permits Section 441 of the Interior Appropriations bill prohibits EPA from taking action to disapprove or prevent implementation of any flexible air permitting program. This directly benefits the state of Texas by allowing the continued operation of the state’s illegal cap-and-trade program. Under the Clean Air Act, each new major source of air pollutants must have a permit with source specific limits for each regulated pollutant.[11] The Texas flexible permit program allowed sources to establish pollution caps that apply across multiple sources. This eliminated the source-specific limits and allowed the sources to trade off pollution increases and reductions at separate sources, potentially avoiding installation of pollution control technology. According to EPA, the program lacks sufficient transparency to ensure that pollution reductions are actually being achieved. EPA proposed to disapprove the Texas program on September 23, 2009, and issued the final disapproval on June 30, 2010.[12] EPA has offered holders of Texas flexible air permits an opportunity to participate in a voluntary audit program, which aims to help sources quickly identify and fix deficiencies in their permits.[13] As of July 2011, 136 industrial plants, representing all of the flexible permit holders, had formally notified EPA that they plan to bring their permits into compliance with the federal requirements.[14]Air Pollution from Cement Kilns Congressman Carter’s amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill, adopted in full committee, prohibits EPA from implementing or enforcing its 2010 rule to reduce emissions of mercury, particulate matter, and hydrochloric acid from cement kilns. Mercury, which is dangerous in minute amounts, is a powerful neurotoxin that causes learning disabilities and developmental damage, especially in young children. Every year, an estimated 60,000 American newborn babies are threatened with a diminished ability to think and learn due to exposure to mercury pollution.[15] These long-overdue standards, first proposed in 1998, will cut emissions of mercury, particle pollution, and other harmful pollutants from Portland cement manufacturing. The standards will reduce mercury pollution and fine particulate matter from cement kilns by 92%, preventing up to 2,500 premature deaths and avoiding 17,000 cases of aggravated asthma each year. These standards also will reduce other hazardous air pollutants such as lead, arsenic, dioxins, and benzene, which are known to cause cancer, birth defects, and other catastrophic health consequences. EPA estimates that the rules will yield $6.7 billion to $18 billion in health and environmental benefits, outweighing the costs by between seven and nineteen times.[16]Air Pollution from Offshore Drilling Section 443 of the Interior Appropriations bill amends the Clean Air Act to include the language of the Jobs and Energy Permitting Act, which passed the House on June 22, 2011. This bill precludes EPA from requiring offshore drilling operations to demonstrate compliance with health-based air quality standards anywhere but in a single onshore area; reduces the length of time during which offshore drilling operations are subject to emissions controls; prohibits EPA from setting emissions control requirements for vessels servicing the offshore drilling operations; and eliminates the role of the Environmental Appeals Board, which has served as a faster, cheaper, more expert substitute for judicial review. The bill also preempts the right of states with delegated authority, such as California and Delaware, to implement more stringent standards to protect air quality. California and Delaware opposed this legislation. The Obama administration also opposed this legislation, stating that this bill would “curtail the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency under the Clean Air Act to help ensure that domestic oil production on the Outer Continental Shelf proceeds safely, responsibly, and with opportunities for efficient stakeholder input.”[17]Particulate Air Pollution Standards Congressman Flake’samendment to the Interior Appropriations bill, adopted in full committee, prohibits funding for EPA to modify the air quality standard for coarse particulate matter under the Clean Air Act. This could interfere with EPA’s ability to make sound science-based decisions necessary to protect public health. EPA is currently reviewing the latest science to decide whether to revise standards for coarse particulate matter. The Clean Air Act requires EPA to conduct this review every five years to ensure that the standards adequately protect public health and reflect the best available science. Scientific studies have linked coarse particles to a variety of health problems, including increased respiratory symptoms in children and premature death in people with heart and lung disease. Although proponents of this policy rider argue that EPA is attempting to regulate farm dust, coarse particulate matter can come from any number of sources. In testimony before the House Agriculture Committee on March 10, 2011, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson stated EPA has “no plans” to regulate dust from farms but reminded the Committee that the Clean Air Act requires the agency to examine the most recent scientific studies.[18]Ammonia Emissions Congressman Cole’s amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill, adopted in full committee, prohibits funding for the EPA to regulate ammonia or ammonium under the secondary ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide. On July 12, 2011, EPA issued a proposed rule setting secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide. EPA proposed retaining the current secondary standards for these pollutants to protect plants from the direct effects of exposure to these pollutants in the air but proposed an additional set of secondary standards to reduce the indirect impacts of these pollutants, such as acidification of estuaries, lakes, and streams.[19] EPA has not proposed to regulate ammonia or ammonium as part of this review. EPA’s rule focuses on oxides of nitrogen, not ammonia and other reduced forms of nitrogen.Coal Ash Section 434 of the Interior Appropriations bill prohibits EPA from regulating fossil fuel combustion waste (coal ash) as hazardous waste under subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. After decades of unsafe disposal, EPA is currently attempting to establish legal requirements for the safe disposal of coal ash. Coal ash impoundments can rupture and cause catastrophic damage to property and the environment, as happened in December 2008 when a Tennessee Valley Authority coal ash impoundment failed in Kingston, Tennessee, releasing 5.4 million cubic yards of toxic sludge into a nearby river and community. Coal ash wastes deposited in unlined pits also can leach toxic chemicals and metals, such as arsenic, lead, selenium, and cadmium, into groundwater and drinking water.EPA Risk Assessment Section 444 of the Interior Appropriations bill would require changes to EPA’s Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) based on recommendations made by the National Academy of Sciences in April 2011. IRIS is a human health assessment program that evaluates quantitative and qualitative risk information on effects that may result from exposure to environmental contaminants. The Academy recommended that EPA reduce the text volume and address redundancies in future IRIS assessments and develop clear and concise statements of the criteria used to evaluate studies and the weight of evidence assigned them. EPA has already announced plans to streamline the development of IRIS assessments in response to those recommendations.[20] Section 444, however, would block the agency from using the 555 IRIS assessments already proposed or completed until EPA makes the changes recommended by the Academy report. Those assessments have been completed over the 26 year life of the IRIS program and are not called into question by the Academy’s recommendations. Prohibition on Risk Reduction Section 444(c) of the Interior Appropriations bill is a sweeping prohibition on “action of any kind” to reduce public health or environmental risks posed from air pollution, drinking water contamination, or other pollution, if “based on EPA exposure assumptions” the level of exposure to the pollutant or contaminant is within or below background concentrations. Background concentration levels are not necessarily safe levels. This overarching one-year prohibition applies to every EPA proposal after May 21, 2009, including actions required by statutes within the Committee’s jurisdiction. It could affect a range of public health and environmental issues, including proposals to address climate change.Lead Abatement An amendment offered by Congressman Rehberg, adopted in full committee, prohibits EPA from implementing or enforcing the Lead, Renovation, Repair, and Painting (LRRP) rule until EPA identifies a commercially available lead testing kit that meets the regulation’s criteria. The LRRP rule requires lead-safe practices for renovation and repair jobs in houses that are likely to contain lead paint. More than one million children today are affected by harmful levels of toxic lead, and exposure to dust from lead paint is the most common source of lead poisoning. Exposure to even very low levels of lead harms the development of children’s brains, causing learning disabilities and behavioral problems. Many construction companies and contractors have paid statutorily required fees to receive training and credentials to perform lead-safe work. When a lead testing kit that meets the regulation’s criteria becomes available, homeowners will be able to test for the presence of lead paint and potentially demonstrate that lead-safe practices are not necessary. Even in the interim, the requirements are targeted and do not apply to newer homes, which are unlikely to contain lead paint.[21] Delay of the rule will expose more than a million children to irreparable damage from lead poisoning, punishthe manybusinesses that have invested in training and credentials,and remove the commercial incentive to develop lead testing kits.Hard Rock Mining Congressman Rehberg’s second amendment, adopted in Committee, prohibits EPA from developing financial assurance requirements for hard rock mining operations. EPA is required to develop those requirements under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (commonly referred to as “Superfund”) to protect taxpayers from the cost of cleaning up abandoned sites.[22] In the case of hardrock mining, the federal government has already spent more than $2.6 billion to clean up abandoned mines and expectsto incuran additional$24 billion in cleanup costs. Although some have claimed the costs will be covered by bond requirements imposed by the Bureau of Land Management, GAO has examined those requirements and found significant shortfalls.[23]Conclusion In our view, the FY2012 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill poses a major threat to the public health of the American people. Whether you agree with our assessment or not, we hope you will agree that these policy decisions should be evaluated by our Committee, not inserted as riders in an appropriations bill. We urge you to work with us to have them stripped from the bill and moved only through regular order. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1]Environmental Protection Agency, Fact Sheet: Settlement Agreements to Address Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Electric Generating Units and Refineries (online at www.epa.gov/airquality/pdfs/settlementfactsheet.pdf) (accessed July 19, 2011).[2]Environmental Protection Agency and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards and Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards, 75 Fed. Reg. 25323-25728 (May 7, 2010) (final rule)[3]Environmental Protection Agency, EPA, DOT and California Align Timeframe for Proposing Standards for Next Generation of Clean Cars (Jan. 24, 2011).[4]Environmental Protection Agency and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,2017 and Later Model Year Light Duty Vehicle GHG Emissions and CAFE Standards, 75 Fed. Reg. 62739-62750 (Oct. 13, 2010) (notice of intent).[5]Id.[6]Environmental Protection Agency and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards and Fuel Efficiency Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles, 75 Fed. Reg. 74152-74456 (Nov. 30, 2010) (proposed rule).[7]House Committee on Agriculture, Statement of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson, Public hearing to review the impact of EPA regulation on agriculture, 112th Cong. (Mar. 10, 2011).[8]Environmental Protection Agency, Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (online at https://www.epa.gov/crossstaterule/) (accessed July 19, 2011).[9]Environmental Protection Agency, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Coal and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units and Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Electric Utility, Industrial-Commercial-Institutional, and Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units, 76 Fed. Reg. 25073 (May 3, 2011) (proposed rule); Environmental Protection Agency, Fact Sheet: Proposed Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (May 4, 2011) (online at: https://www.epa.gov/airquality/powerplanttoxics/pdfs/proposalfactsheet.pdf).[10]Id. at 25078.[11]See 40 CFR 51.165; 40 CFR 51.166.[12]Environmental Protection Agency, Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans; Texas; Revisions to the New Source Review (NSR) State Implementation Plan (SIP); Flexible Permits; Final Rule, 75 Fed. Reg. 41312 (July 15, 2010).[13]Environmental Protection Agency, Final Notice of Clean Air Act (CAA) voluntary audit compliance program for flexible permit holders in the State of Texas, 75 Fed. Reg. 59711 (Sept. 28, 2010).[14]136 Texas plants to get new permits, Houston Chronicle (July 12, 2011).[15]National Academy of Sciences, Toxicological Effects of Methyl-mercury (2000).[16]Environmental Protection Agency, EPA Sets First National Limits to Reduce Mercury and Other Toxic Emissions from Cement Plants (Aug. 9, 2010).[17]Executive Office of the President, Statement of Administration Policy: H.R. 2021 (June 21, 2011).[18]House Committee on Agriculture, Statement of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson, Public hearing to review the impact of EPA regulation on agriculture, 112th Cong. (Mar. 10, 2011).[19]Environmental Protection Agency, Secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Oxides of Nitrogen and Sulfur (July 12, 2011) (proposed rule).[20]Environmental Protection Agency, Strengthening the IRIS Process - 2011 (online at www.epa.gov/IRIS/pdfs/irisprocessfactsheet2011.pdf) (accessed July 19, 2011).[21]Environmental Protection Agency, Lead: Renovation, Repair, and Painting Program, 73 Fed. Reg. 21691 (April 22, 2008) (final rule).[22]Environmental Protection Agency, Identification of Priority Classes of Facilities for Development of CERCLA Section 108(b) Financial Responsibility Requirements, 74 Fed. Reg. 37213 (July 28, 2009). [23]Government Accountability Office, Hardrock Mining: Information on Abandoned Mines and Value and Coverage of Financial Assurances on BLM Land (GAO-08-574T) (Mar. 12, 2008).
07.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov “We strongly believe that Social Security revenues must not be used for anything other than Social Security benefits.”WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today joined 55 members of the House in calling on President Barack Obama not to secure an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling through further cuts to Social Security. Rush is adamant about his opposition to eviscerating this economically sound social safety net that senior citizens have paid into, in good faith, and that does not contribute to the nation’s deficit. Rush believes Social Security represents a promise made to America’s senior citizens who’ve worked hard, played by the rules and who have a right to expect their government to honor the contributions they’ve made, both financially and in service to our nation.In part, the letter delivered to the President today said this:“Enemies of Social Security reject valid proposals to give the same level of tax relief to the same Americans or American businesses without using the Social Security revenue stream and resultant general fund transfers. As alternative measures would have the same net effect on deficits and the economy, there is simply no need to negotiate cuts to Social Security taxes.“Despite their strong support for the program itself, the American people are cynical when it comes to politicians’ handling of Social Security. They have been told that the program is going bankrupt and that the only way to save the country from the debt crisis is to slash promised benefits. They have been told that Treasury securities, backed by the full faith of the United States government, are “worthless IOUs” by the people who want to turn Trust Fund investments over to Wall Street. We are concerned that a payroll tax cut may be used as the first step in a larger battle to fundamentally dismantle Social Security. “Americans’ contributions to Social Security should be used for Americans’ Social Security benefits. To do otherwise flies in the face of the time-tested wisdom of this program, which was established with an independent revenue stream to protect the retirement earnings of America’s workers from budgetary politics. We respectfully request that you reject any proposal that includes an extension or expansion of the payroll tax cut.”# # #A link to a pdf version of the letter to President Obama is posted below.
07.21.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov“I can’t assume responsibility for the Obama presidency...Most of the time I support him. But this debt ceiling issue is just one indication of where we might part ways.”WASHINGTON –– Earlier today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) spoke to more than 200 minority and women business leaders at MMTC’s 9th Annual Access to Capital and Telecommunications Policy Conference at the Westin Georgetown Hotel in Washington, D.C. Most of Rush’s 20-minute remarks encouraged attendees to become fully engaged in the technologies that are changing our world while conveying his strong commitment to their continued success. As he concluded his remarks, Rush addressed the continued negotiations between President Barack Obama and bipartisan leaders in the U.S. House and Senate as the August 2 deadline to raise the federal debt ceiling approaches. The text of his remarks on this subject are reprinted here. “As was mentioned earlier, in the year 2000 President Obama ran against me for Congress and praise the Lord that I was successful, in terms of defeating him, and I support him a lot. But I also understand that the dynamics of the presidency are different from the dynamics that exist in other places. I know that as a Congressman who represents him, he lives in my district, and through representing others who live in my district. My point is this. “I can’t assume responsibility for the Obama presidency. I’m very proud to have lived during this time, I’m very proud that he is President. I think the nation has made some significant steps forward by electing him President and I am proud that Obama is the President of the United States. But I can’t assume responsibility for his presidency.“I’ll support him when I can. Most of the time I support him. But this debt ceiling issue is just one indication of where we might part ways. I’m not going to vote for anything that will diminish or would curtail Social Security or Medicare. I don’t care who the President is and I’m not voting for it.“And, so, what I’m saying is that I support his presidency but I can’t be held accountable for his presidency. He has to be held accountable for his own presidency. I would love for him to hear me and take my advice on certain issues and do the things I want him to do, but he’s not going to do that. I know my limitations there. But what I am responsible for is not his presidency, I’m responsible for the ‘era of Obama.’ And I know that I am going to be judged by what I have done in terms of the era of Obama. And what that means is that, again, my mission during this particular time is to create and expand businesses. To help people understand how the Congress works. To utilize the powers of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Congress in terms of trying to make these institutions work on behalf of the people who have elected me to office. I am committed to using all of the resources and the talent and the abilities and the experiences that I have as a 64-year-old African American who has grown up here, in the United States. I’m committed to using those experiences to try to help move my community, and the world and my nation forward. And that’s what I’m going to be held responsible for.”# # #NOTE: A complete transcript of Rush’s remarks will soon be posted to his website and Facebook page.
07.21.2011	Committee on Energy and CommerceRep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking MemberFor Immediate Release: July 21, 2011Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-5735Sharon Jenkins/Renee Ferguson (Rush): (202) 225-4372Veronica Custer (Green): (202) 225-1688Washington, DC —Today Reps. Henry A. Waxman, Bobby L. Rush, and Gene Green requested a committee hearing on the recently released Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s task force report, which summarizes its review of America’s nuclear reactors and their ability to respond to a catastrophic event like the one that struck Japan in March.The full text of the letter is below and also available online here.July 21, 2011The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Upton:Last week, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s Japan task force released a report summarizing its review of America’s nuclear reactors and their ability to respond to a catastrophic event like the one that struck Japan in March. We are writing to request that you schedule a hearing on this report as soon as possible.The task force found that “a sequence of events like the Fukushima accident is unlikely to occur in the United States.”[1] The task force also concluded that “continued operation and continued licensing activities do not pose an imminent risk to public health and safety.”[2] While this is good news, it does not provide an assurance of public safety. After all, the catastrophic events in Japan were unlikely but occurred nonetheless. The task force appears to agree, concluding that NRC and the nuclear power industry need to do more to prevent or respond to events of low likelihood and high consequence, such as a prolonged loss of power resulting from a severe natural disaster. Such events pose an unacceptable risk to public health and safety should they occur. The task force report includes 12 recommendations to strengthen safety requirements at nuclear power plants and, in effect, redefine what NRC considers an adequate level of protection. For example:The task force recommends that the NRC require licensees to reevaluate the seismic and flooding hazards at their sites and upgrade their reactors, as necessary, to protect against these hazards.[3]The task force recommends that the NRC strengthen the ability of nuclear reactors to cope with an extended loss of power, as occurred in Japan, and to pre-plan and pre-stage offsite resources to allow for core and spent fuel cooling during prolonged blackout conditions.[4]The task force recommends that NRC require that nuclear power plants install a seismically-qualified means to spray water into the spent fuel pools and improve their ability to monitor conditions in spent fuel pools if all power is lost.[5]Chairman Gregory Jaczko has outlined a “road map” for Commission decision-making in order to obtain, in a timely manner, stakeholder input on the task force’s recommendations. His stated goal is to provide clear Commission direction on each of the task force’s recommendations within 90 days. He also has called on NRC and the nuclear industry to commit to implementing all lessons from the Fukushima accident within five years, half as long as it took the industry to implement improvements following the September 11 attacks.[6] That is a reasonable timeline given the potentially grave risks of delay.During Committee consideration of H.R. 2401 on July 12, 2011, you mentioned that you had been briefed on the task force’s recommendations and assured the Committee that we would “entertain those recommendations” in order to “learn constructively” from the events in Japan.[7] We agree that the Committee needs to hear from the task force members about their recommendations and the reasons for making them.We urge you to schedule a hearing as soon as possible.Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. Rush Gene GreenRanking Member Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy Subcommittee on and Power Environment and the Economy [1]Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Near-Term Task Force, Recommendations for Enhancing Reactor Safety in the 21st Century: The Near-Term Task Force Review of Insights from the Fukushima Dai-ichi Accident (July 12, 2011) at vii. [2]Id.[3]Id. at 30. [4]Id. at 37-38.[5]Id. at 45-46.[6]Nuclear Regulatory Commission,Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by Chairman Gregory B. Jaczko on Fukushima and U.S. Nuclear Safety at National Press Club, Washington, D.C. (July 18, 2011).[7]House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Remarks of Chairman Fred Upton, Markup on H.R. 2401, the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation Act of 2011 (July 12, 2011).
07.20.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Rush Statement on #Dsub_01, an Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute WASHINGTON –– “Madam Chair, I seek recognition to offer a Democratic substitute, which is at the desk. “My amendment would strike all provisions contained in the SAFE Act and replace those provisions with the text of the Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA Act), which I introduced along with Mr. Barton and Ms. Schakowsky on May 4, 2011. “This has been the fourth Congress in which my bill has been introduced, notwithstanding its passage on suspension out of the House in the 111th Congress. “The DATA Act has two basic components. “First, the bill requires that persons possessing electronic and non-electronic data containing personal information must take steps to ensure that the data is secure. “Second, the bill establishes notification procedures that a company must take when a data breach occurs in order to allow affected consumers to protect themselves. “As is the case under the SAFE Act, companies would not have to initiate such notices if they determine that “there is no reasonable risk of identity theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct.” “However, unlike the SAFE Act, the DATA Act would also impose special requirements on data brokers, yet accommodate other laws that govern how certain data brokers are regulated.” “I yield back.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Markup on "The Safe DATA Act." Here's a link to a pdf copy of the amendment language described in this statement:
07.20.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govRush Statement on #41 Amendment to amend Sec. 5, subsection 8 – Public Record Information DefinitionWASHINGTON –– “Madam Chair, I seek recognition to offer my Amendment #41, which is at the desk.“Section 5, subsection 7 of the “Secure and Fortify Electronic Data Act” defines personal information in a manner that excludes the term “public record information.”“Section 5, subsection 8 then goes on to define the term “public record information” as information about an individual that is lawfully made available to the general public from federal, state, or local government records.“However, that definition does not contemplate whether the information was acquired legally. With all of the recent attention and scrutiny that is being paid to the NewsCorp phone hacking scandals across the Atlantic Ocean, we have no excuse for not perfecting this provision.“By eliminating the public record information carve out from personal information, Congress will be stating emphatically that just because personal information can be collected from the public domain does not excuse entities that make it their business to collect and handle personal information to ensure that said information was legally acquired to begin with.“The definition of personal information is far too important in this bill for us not to confront this potentially huge exclusion.”# # #NOTE: This is the second of three statements Rush made during this markup. Please see Statement "3 of 3" where a link to the webcast of this entire proceeding is posted. Here's a link to a pdf copy of the amendment language described in this statement:
07.20.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govRush Statement on Amendment #1 to amend Sec. 2, subsection a, 2(A)WASHINGTON –– “Madam Chair, I seek recognition to offer my Amendment #1, which is at the desk.“Section 2 of the "Secure and Fortify Electronic Data Act" would require covered entities under the law to establish and implement reasonable information security policies and procedures. “Under the sub-heading, “Data Security Requirements,” the Federal Trade Commission would be required to adopt regulations prescribing that such security policies apply to the collection, use, sale, other dissemination, and maintenance of personal information.“My amendment would make clear that these information security policy regulations are to also apply to offline and paper records and not just to personal information that is contained in electronic data or to “data in electronic form,” which is a defined term in Section 5 of the SAFE Act.“This amendment will also clarify the zone of federal preemption with respect to state data breach laws.“Among the 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, all of which have data security breach laws, some of those laws would extend to the protection of non-electronic data containing personal information.“Another way to say this is that my amendment would make it clear that the scope of Section 2’s requirements are “similar” enough in scope to any states’ laws that cover personal information found in non-electronic data.“By voting to pass my amendment, we would remove any and all doubt that it is Congress’s intent to pre-empt state security breach laws and policies relating to personal information that is contained in non-electronic data and paper records.”# # #NOTE: This is the first of three statements Rush made during this markup. Please see Statement "3 of 3" where a link to the webcast of this entire proceeding is posted. Here's a link to a pdf copy of the amendment language described in this statement:
07.15.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of our panelists for being here today. “Mr. Chairman, in the past the issue of pipeline safety has been one that we have worked on in a bipartisan manner and it is my sincere hope and expectation that we will continue in that tradition as we tackle reauthorization of this bill as well. “I look forward to today’s hearing with such a stellar lineup of expert witnesses and I commend you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing today with such distinguished panelists. “I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge Rep. Speier and Rep. Rehberg, both of whom I know have a personal interest on the subject of pipeline safety. “Rep. Rehberg represents Montana, where they are dealing with the aftermath of the Silver Tip pipeline spill in the Yellowstone River, and Rep. Speier represents the district of San Bruno where last September’s pipeline explosion claimed the lives of eight people. “And while, so far, we have been fortunate to avoid loss of life, in my own home state of Illinois we have recently been experiencing pipeline leaks due to old and decrepit lines. “Just yesterday, I had a conversation with the state’s attorney of Will County, IL, where he informed me that recently there were three separate pipeline spills, two oil leaks and one butane leak, and he warned that future leaks were a real possibility due to aging infrastructure. “So I look forward to hearing from all of our witnesses today, including our House colleagues, to gauge their thoughts on the draft bill we are discussing here. “Additionally, I am interested to hear Rep. Speier’s ideas on what elements of her own bill, H.R.22, the Pipeline Safety and Community Empowerment Act of 2011, that we might be able to incorporate to strengthen the legislation we are considering in this subcommittee. “As far as the discussion draft, Mr. Chairman, I am committed to working with you in good faith to improve and strengthen this legislation, where necessary, in order to ensure that we have the strongest bipartisan bill possible moving forward. “As I understand it, many elements of this discussion draft mirror provisions in the Senate bill, but there are some outstanding areas where I think we can make some improvements so that we have a stronger bill that can gain bipartisan support on the subcommittee and full committee levels, as well as when the bill reaches the floor. “Some areas where I believe this bill can be strengthened include ensuring that there is regulation of gathering lines where appropriate, tightening up the integrity management system requirements, and ensuring that information regarding emergency response plans and industry-developed safety standards are available to the public. “Mr. Chairman, if we are able to do work on this bill together and include input from both the majority and minority sides, then I am confident that we can move legislation from this subcommittee that can actually pass the Senate and, ultimately, become law. “And the issue of pipeline safety, in the face of everything that is currently taking place, from the various spills and explosions, to the debates over fast-tracking various pipeline proposals, is one that we must act on because this nation needs updated and comprehensive pipeline safety reform. “So once again, I applaud you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this timely hearing today and I look forward to hearing from all of our expert panelist and witnesses. “And with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's hearing in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here:Hearing on "Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act of 2011"
07.14.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– Today, in response to the level of misinformation surrounding the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) and the attempts by House Republicans to eviscerate its consumer and environmental benefits, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush wrote an opinion editorial for The Hill newspaper’s online “Congress Blog.” In it, Rush set the record straight on this important piece of legislation that gained bipartisan support in the 111th Congress and is already producing benefits for consumers and the environment. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power, Rush is the lead Democrat on a subcommittee that oversees a diverse array of energy and environmental protection issues in the United States.Rush’s commentary focused on Tuesday’s defeat of H.R. 2417, the so-called Better Use of Light Bulbs Act of 2011, an ill-conceived bill ginned up by false and inflammatory rhetoric by the extremist right that seeks to gut key provisions of EISA including energy efficient light bulbs. In his commentary, in part, Rush said this, “Ironically, the EISA language the BULB Act would repeal is one of the few clean energy policies that enjoys wide support from a diverse array of stakeholders including some that are frequently at odds with one another. EISA’s light bulb standards are supported by environmentalists and conservationists, labor unions and the private sector, as well as various leading consumer groups…Leaders should lead, and with all of the real problems that Americans are facing, Congress should not be wasting its time or efforts trying to overturn laws that will benefit consumers and the entire nation as a whole.”You may click here to read his commentary, "BULB act sheds light on the politics of the new Republican Party," on The Hill's website or you may read it in a pdf format below.# # #
07.13.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, my amendment provides federal enforcement authority so that if the EPA Administrator determines that a structure is in violation of a state coal combustion residuals permit program, and the state has not taken appropriate action to enforce such permit program with respect to such structure, the Administrator may inspect such structure and enforce the requirements of such permit program. “As written, the current bill would put the EPA in the position of either having to withdraw an entire state program, or else do absolutely nothing if a company has been found to be in violation of the “open dumping” laws that were enacted over 30 years ago. “Currently, many coal ash sites that violate this law still continue to receive waste because states have not enforced these standards. “Mr. Chairman, due to a case in my district of Crestwood, IL, where contaminated drinking water was piped into the homes of my constituents for a period of over 20 years, from 1986 to 2007, without intervention from either state or federal EPA agencies, I am very sensitive to this issue. “I understand that many of my Republican colleagues do not believe that the federal government should play any role in setting standards or enforcing any type of regulations, except when it comes to individual marriage or women’s reproductive rights. “However, many of my constituents believe that there is no greater role for Congress to play than to protect their lives and livelihoods by ensuring that all American citizens have access to clean air and water. “Mr. Chairman, I believe it is a false choice to try to frame these tremendously important policy decisions under the paradigm of either clean air and water or jobs and employment. “As leaders, it is our job and responsibility to find the right balance when crafting legislation so that our constituents are not faced with these types of lose-lose decisions. “I believe my amendment will go a long way toward making this legislation more balanced so that, at the very least, we allow the federal government to serve as the last backstop for the American people against companies that would seek to skirt the law without regard for the families and communities they would harm. “Mr. Chairman, many of my constituents do not have the money and influence that the industry has, but they still expect their Congressional Representatives to protect their interests. “In fact, I would like to end with a quote from a letter dated July 11th that my office received from a number of ordinary American families who live by coal ash dumps all across the country, and who wrote to this committee to consider their voices as we vote on this bill today. “And I quote, “Do our lives matter to you? Is protecting coal ash “recycling” more important than our health or the quality of our drinking water?” “The letter goes on to say: “As you consider this legislation, please don’t forget about us. We are not ‘against the coal industry.’ We simply want the laws that are supposed to protect people to be enforced.” “Mr. Chairman, my amendment will allow the federal government to do precisely that. “I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment, and with that I yield back.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on H.R. 2273 and H.R. 2401 (Debate Day II)
07.13.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– Yesterday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) called on the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to launch an immediate investigation of the conditions of schools on U.S. military bases in light of alarming conditions cited in a disturbing, June 27 story published in Newsweek magazine. In his letter to Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, Rush raised a series of questions surrounding the conditions of schools on military bases and, in part, said this, “The article paints a picture of decrepit conditions that pose a threat to the safety of our military families both at home and abroad. In order to rectify this situation, Congress must first understand the scope of the problem. Please provide a report on this situation without delay.”Some of the conditions Congressman Rush called on the GAO to investigate include:The number of DoD schools (primary, elementary, and high schools) that do not meet minimum federal standards of safety, quality, accessibility and design.The number of DoD schools that do not meet minimum standards of safety, quality, accessibility, and design of the local community in which they are situated.The amount of dollars appropriated for DoD schools that have not been spent on DoD schools.The demographic breakdown of DoD schools (age, race, sex, etc.)The number of schools, and their locations, with substandard HVAC systems.The number of schools and location, by branch of service, that do not meet minimum standards of safety, quality, accessibility and design.A link to Rush's letter to the Comptroller General is posted below.# # #
07.12.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Rush Statement on the “TRAIN Act” Amendment WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, last week during the subcommittee markup I offered an amendment in good faith that I thought would help make this bill more balanced, by including language that would direct the committee created under this act to look at the public health and environmental impacts associated with EPA regulations, instead of simply the costs to industry as the bill currently does. “During that subcommittee markup, my distinguished colleague from Virginia, Mr. Griffith, asked why my amendment only directed the committee to look at reductions in public health impacts, such as asthma, developmental defects, and missed school and work days among others, but not increases as well. “I thought Mr. Griffith made a valid point, and in the spirit of trying to work together in a good faith effort, I directed my staff to go back and make some changes to the language of my amendment to ensure that it would take into account both the positive and negative impacts of the health and environmental consequences of EPA regulations. “So the amendment that I am offering here, today, reflects those changes to the language that the majority side requested. “My amendment would still add the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as well as the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, among others, to the interagency council that this bill would create. “Additionally, my amendment would direct the committee to look at important health impacts that would be affected by the EPA’s proposed rules, including the effects on vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, pregnant women, and populations with pulmonary disease, as well as the environmental impacts on global climate change, and the effect of promoting clean energy jobs and technologies. “Mr. Chairman, it is my hope that my amendment will be supported by the majority side with the expectation that it will strengthen this bill by making sure that this new committee takes a balanced and unbiased approach that looks at costs, as well as benefits from proposed EPA regulations. “By including health and environmental impacts of proposed EPA rules, instead of just costs to industry, this bill has a much better chance of having bipartisan support as it moves its way through the legislative process. “So I urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment, and with that I yield back.” # # #
07.12.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Rush Statement in Opposition to the Whitfield Air Amendment WASHINGTON –– “Mr. Chairman, the bill we’re considering today purports to be about regulatory analysis. But this amendment reveals what the real agenda has been all along. The real goal of the TRAIN Act isn’t to improve analysis of regulations, but to stop regulations. Specifically, to stop long overdue efforts to clean up old, polluting, coal-fired power plants. “The Whitfield amendment indefinitely delays two critical Clean Air Act regulations that will allow hundreds of thousands of Americans to enjoy better health and save our economy tens of billions of dollars. “The utility air toxics rule reduces emissions of mercury and other air toxics from power plants. The EPA expects to finalize the regulation in November. The economic value of the benefits from lives saved and health improvements is five to ten times greater than the costs. “The cross-state air pollution rule reduces emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides that contribute to air pollution problems in downwind states. EPA finalized the rule last week. The health benefits, including lives saved and heart attacks and asthma attacks avoided are over $100 billion per year. The cost to utilities is less than $3 billion per year. “Each year, these two rules will avoid tens of thousands of premature deaths. They will avoid tens of thousands of heart attacks and hospital admissions. They will avoid hundreds of thousands of aggravated asthma attacks. Americans will report to work or school on millions of days they would have otherwise missed due to illness. “And these rules are projected to create new jobs manufacturing and installing pollution control equipment. This adds up to a healthier, more productive, and stronger economy. Many utilities support these rules. They knew the regulations were coming and they made the investments to clean up their pollution. These responsible businesses who played by the rules will be disadvantaged if Congress changes the rules midgame. “Some argue that these rules, together with other future EPA regulations, will lead to power plant shutdowns and threaten the reliability of the electricity grid. These fears have been rebutted by analyses performed by the M.J. Bradley group and the Bipartisan Policy Center, both of which find the utility industry can meet the standards without harm to reliability. “The utility industry had ample notice that these rules were coming. The utility mercury rule is at least ten years overdue, and earlier versions of both rules were finalized by the George W. Bush administration but overturned by the courts as insufficiently protective. “The Whitfield amendment leaves the earlier version of the cross-state air pollution rule in place. But this approach still sacrifices significant benefits that would be achieved under the updated final cross-state air pollution rule. In 2012, the Whitfield amendment would allow at least 1.5 million tons more SO2 and over 100,000 tons more NOx. This means more premature deaths, heart attacks, aggravated asthma attacks, and respiratory diseases every year of delay. “The Whitfield amendment also hurts downwind states that are trying to meet the ambient air quality standards by the deadlines. “The cross-state air pollution rule brings many areas into attainment with fine particle and ozone standards by the 2014 deadline. The earlier version of the rule was less focused on bringing specific areas into attainment. Under the Whitfield amendment, downwind states may have to impose more stringent controls on local businesses to make up for the effects of increased out-of-state pollution. That’s more costly, and it’s not fair. “The Whitfield amendment also harms downwind states, whose air pollution problems were not fixed under the earlier rule. Specifically, the amendment would delay reductions needed by Michigan, Louisiana, Texas, Wisconsin, and Illinois to meet the standards for fine particle pollution or ozone. “The cross-state air pollution rule was based on updated data, better analysis, and new air quality standards. The Whitfield amendment relies on an old, less protective and less effective rule. States, communities, and individual Americans will pay a heavy price for blocking the cross-state air pollution rule. “The TRAIN Act isn’t about better analysis. The reams of analysis we have already show that these regulations are some of the best investments we could make. The TRAIN Act is about stopping these regulations, so that 50-year-old uncontrolled power plants never have to put on pollution controls. That’s bad for public health, bad for the economy, bad for utilities that played by the rules, and bad for jobs. I urge a no vote on the Whitfield amendment.” # # # NOTE: This markup extended over the course of two days. You may view 'Part I' of this markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on H.R. 2273 and H.R. 2401 (Debate Day 1) To view the rest of this markup, please see the "3 of 3" press release that's posted to our website. Thank you.
07.08.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON ––“Mr. Chairman, we know that since the inception of the Clean Air Act, opponents of the law have been exaggerating the costs of implementing the regulations associated with the Act, while downplaying the benefits that the new rules have brought. “I’m afraid that today’s markup on the TRAIN Act may be yet another example of this type of shoddy accounting. “This bill would highlight the costs of implementing certain EPA rules but does not take into account all of the benefits of these regulations, including enhanced public health, increased job productivity or lives saved. “This bill would also not take into account the positive impacts that EPA regulations have had on our economy, including spurring additional research and development of clean energy technologies, instituting higher fuel efficiency standards, and helping make the country less dependent on foreign oil. “As written, this bill would not give an accurate cost/benefit analysis of EPA regulations. “The Office of Management and Budget examined 10 Clean Air Act regulations finalized in 2008, 2009, and 2010, and concluded that all 10 had benefits that exceeded costs, by a ratio of 7 to 1 on average. “During debate over the Clean Air Act there were dire warnings that environmental regulation would kill jobs and lead to outsourcing overseas. “However, when both direct employment and indirect employment are taken into account, the environmental protection industry is estimated to have created from 3.8 million to 5 million new jobs. “So, today, I will offer an amendment to help strengthen this bill by making sure that the panel created to study EPA regulations is objective and balanced, and that it takes into account both the benefits to the environment and public health, as well as cost to industry. “I urge all of my colleagues to support my amendment and with that I yield back the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Energy and Power Subcommittee Markup on H.R. 2401 (TRAIN Act)
07.08.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– Today U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced H.R. 2464, the “Families Beyond Bars Act,” a bill that provides grants to organizations that carry out child parent visitation programs for children whose parents are in prison. It also provides other important interventions for those children. “As a legislator and a pastor I am very familiar with the pain that can occur when a child has to go through life without the support of a loving parent,” said Rush whose legislation has gained the support of Girl Scouts USA. “I have seen the transformative power that caring adults can provide to children who, but for an intervention, might choose to follow a self-destructive path. This bill seeks to build on the proven results of qualified non-profit organizations that have been successful in working with children whose parents are in prison. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this legislation that will help strengthen the lives of young people.”Rush noted that an estimated 1.5 million children in the United States have a parent in prison. H.R. 2464 would establish a program to provide grants to youth-serving organizations that carry out child-parent visitation programs for children with incarcerated parents. The bill authorizes the Attorney General to award three- to five-year grants that have the possibility for renewal.“Children of incarcerated parents are at higher risk for depression, aggression, poor academic performance, truancy and a greater likelihood of ending up in prison themselves. The Families Beyond Bars Act supports programs like Girl Scouts Beyond Bars, which provides life-changing opportunities for these at-risk youth,” said Kathy Cloninger, CEO of Girl Scouts of the USA. “We commend Congressman Rush in his commitment to helping our most vulnerable youth, and look forward to working with Congress to build girls of courage, confidence and character who make the world a better place.”Community and youth-serving organizations can often play a critical role in supporting and nurturing children in these circumstances. For almost 20 years, the Girl Scouts Beyond Bars (GSBB) program has provided a consistent, supportive environment to daughters of incarcerated parents. Evaluations of this program show that it can help reduce the trauma of parent-child separation, preserve the mother/daughter relationship during incarceration, and lessen the likelihood that the daughter will participate in risky behaviors.Programs like GSBB and others are offered through a variety of non-profit organizations throughout the United States including many that are associated with law enforcement agencies. The “Families Beyond Bars” bill would be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice. It would support regular child-parent meetings, mentoring, skill-building sessions, and parenting classes for youth.# # #A link to a pdf version of the bill as introduced is posted below.
07.06.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today introduced H.R. 2424, the “Expanding Opportunities for Main Street Act,” a bill that seeks to amend the Small Business Act to allow for greater participation in the Disadvantaged Business Assistance Program while also elevating the federal, small business procurement goal for all federally designated U.S. small businesses to a permanent, new level of 25 percent. Rush introduced his bill on the same day that companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Tom Udall (D-NM).“It’s not just a cliché to say that small businesses are the economic driver of America’s future,” said Rush who introduced similar legislation in the 111th Congress. “According to a story in yesterday’s USA Today, those seeking work in a post-recession American economy are finding that employers are seeking men and women who are able to assume multiple roles—people the story described as workers who are good at a lot of things. Given the grit, determination, creativity and passion for excellence that drive our nation’s small business leaders, I can think of no better place to invest federal resources than in companies led by skilled people who think outside the box while being disciplined enough to meet or exceed expectations on time and within a budget. The bills that I and my friend, Senator Udall, are introducing today represent solid investments in our nation’s economic future by supporting those whose passion for creating jobs and supporting their communities is second to none. I will work tirelessly to gain bipartisan support for both of these bills as each cuts through government red tape while providing resources to help innovators innovate.”Rush crafted H.R. 2424 in a manner that expands or amends a series of incentives and stabilization mechanisms aimed at better positioning small businesses to compete and thrive in our global economy.Key provisions in “Division A” include raising the cap for contracts set aside for small businesses to $500,000, modifying the SBA’s Disadvantaged Business Development Program by raising the Personal Net Worth Threshold to $1.5 million, raising the federal surety bonding guarantee to $5 million, and extending a key Obama Administration SBA ARC loan program through September, 2011.“Small business owners in New Mexico are often frustrated with the federal contracting process. They tell me it's too complex, too difficult to navigate and places them at a disadvantage against larger firms,” Udall said. “This bill will help New Mexico small businesses create jobs while benefiting from federal entities in our own backyard.”In addition, the bill seeks to strengthen the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) through a series of steps including providing technical and contracting assistance to qualified minority businesses, and by authorizing the Director of the MBDA to provide loan guarantees to qualified minority businesses up to $500,000. In addition, this section meets the long standing request by U. S. small businesses for the creation of a national database of minority firms which federal, prime contractors may refer to when looking for firms to partner with in subcontracts.This legislation has already gained the support of several leading civic and business organizations including Harry C. Alford, President/CEO of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. Alford expressed his support for this legislation by stating, “This proposed legislation, the Expanding Opportunities for Main Street Act, is very timely. The federal government is doing only 0.3% procurement with Black-owned firms and SBA lending to Black firms has dropped 80%. We have to turn this around and the National Black Chamber of Commerce firmly believes that this will be the beginning of a big turnaround.”This bill provides a series of long overdue provisions that enhance the power of the Small Business Administration to be a stronger, more effective advocate for innovative entrepreneurs by expanding or amending a series of incentives and stabilization mechanisms aimed at better positioning small businesses to compete and thrive in our global economy. Key provisions include:Raising the cap for contracts set aside from $100,000 for small businesses to $500,000. Modifies the SBA’s Disadvantaged Business Development Program by raising the Personal Net Worth Threshold to $1.5 million (currently is $750,000).The bill also raises the federal surety bonding guarantee to $5 million, and extends a key Obama Administration Recovery Provision: The SBA ARC loan program through September, 2011.Broadening the definition of contract bundling to force contracting officers to break up large contracts to increase small business participation.# # #A link to a pdf copy of the bill as introduced is posted below.
07.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) defended Wall Street reform and told readers of the premier issue of the Harvard Business Law Review that increased regulation and consumer protection will, over time, increase confidence and make the nation’s financial institutions stronger.The article defends the Dodd-Frank Act passed in the wake of the mortgage meltdown, recession and loss of eight million American jobs. Rush believes the lack of discipline, regulation and accountability led the nation to the brink of financial disaster and that Dodd-Frank (signed into law in 2010) begins to restore order and rules that protect free and open markets. Rush was instrumental in drafting the legislation and served on the committee that helped reconcile differences between House and Senate versions of the bill before it became law. During the 110th and 111th Congress, Rush chaired the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. He is currently Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power.In its first issue the new Harvard Business Law Review examines Dodd-Frank and the impact of increased congressional oversight of the U.S. financial regulatory system. Rush reassured readers that the nation’s financial institutions will weather the uncertainty that comes with systemic reform.“Stakeholder and industry anxiety is neither uncommon nor is it unprecedented in cases of comprehensive reform,” Rush wrote. “This haziness is momentary and will last for only a finite time. We are already seeing a more understandable and navigable regulatory landscape for financial and insurance services beginning to take shape.”Rush congratulated the editors of the Harvard Business Law Review which is one of 17, student-edited journals that the Harvard Law School publishes.“I am greatly honored to have been asked to author a preface to the inaugural volume. The fact that it focuses on the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is an indication of the serious thinking that we can anticipate going forward.”# # #NOTE: Click here to read the inaugural edition: https://www.hblr.org/current-issue/
06.30.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today called for hearings to examine the potential threat to U.S. nuclear waste storage facilities posed by fires, floods and other natural disasters. In a letter to Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield, Rush cited the fire that continues to rage in Las Conchas, New Mexico. Since last Sunday, the Las Conchas fire has quickly spread to engulf nearly 93,000 acres. Rush, who serves as Ranking Member of the subcommittee said, “I am writing to request that the Energy and Power Subcommittee conduct a follow up hearing on nuclear safety that, specifically, looks at the issue of handling the nation’s nuclear waste, both in the short term and in the long term.“In light of recent events that have put some of the nation’s nuclear facilities at risk, including the Las Conchas fire, which continues to jeopardize thousands of barrels of nuclear waste stored above ground at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, I believe it is imperative that we examine the procedures and protocols for how the nation stores its nuclear byproducts. In addition to Los Alamos, there have been other recent events that have caused reason for concern as we witnessed threats to the Fort Calhoun and Cooper nuclear facilities, in Nebraska, due to flooding of the Missouri River.“As someone who continues to monitor the circumstances on the ground in Japan as they work to prevent an epic release of nuclear gas, those of us vested with oversight responsibility over our nation’s energy resources are duty bound to ensure that our nuclear facilities are secure.”A link to the letter is posted below.# # #
06.25.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO –– Under bright blue skies and amid the food, fun and fellowship of thousands of residents, this afternoon U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush joined in the 50th anniversary celebration of the founding of the Village of Orland Hills while also honoring the leadership of Orland Hills Mayor Kyle R. Hastings and other community leaders. Rush presented the Mayor with a permanent congressional recognition that honors the vision of Orland Hills' founders and the effective leadership by Hastings and others whose combined efforts have enabled the village to grow from less than 500 residents to more than 7,100. Today’s event occurs almost 50 years to the date the village was incorporated on June 30, 1961. Originally known as Westhaven, the village boundaries were 167th Street to the north, 169th Street to the south and was located within the narrow confines of 90th and 94th avenues. Congressman Rush entered a tribute that recognizes the growth of this dynamic American city in the Congressional Record of the United States. The document, known as an Extension of Remarks, is an expression of Rush’s admiration for Mayor Hastings, Orland Hills’ original founders, the village’s current leadership and the contribution this growing community continues to make to the State of Illinois and to our nation. In part, Rush’s tribute said this, “…It is my sincere honor to enter into the Congressional Record this heartfelt tribute to the residents of Orland Hills, their Honorable Mayor Kyle R. Hastings, the trustees and appointed leadership of Administrator John A. Daly, and the Chairman of the 50th Anniversary Committee, an Orland Hills Trustee and the Mayor's son, Kyle R. Hastings II. “I also want to pay tribute to the thousands of Orland Hills residents who spend significant social capital every day to make their village a true social network—a real place to live and work and raise families. “At a time when so much of our nation is beset with tough budgets or less than stellar policy and political leaders, the Village of Orland Hills has much to celebrate. I am deeply proud to serve the interests of this thriving community and I pray for the good health and prosperity of its citizens.” Here’s a link to Congressman Rush’s 50th anniversary tribute in its entirety. # # # NOTE: Here's a link to a photo catalogue of today's celebration as posted on Congressman Rush's Facebook page.
06.24.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) said, today, that he looks forward to meeting and representing the new constituents of Illinois’ 1st Congressional District.The newly drawn Illinois Congressional Redistricting map was signed into law by Governor Pat Quinn today. The map maintains much of Rush’s existing district and now extends southwest into portions of Will County. As a result of declining population, Illinois’ congressional delegation will have 18 members instead of 19 and citizens will vote in their new districts in 2012. “I have been a strong and ardent supporter of the residents, businesses, educational institutions, hospitals, community organizations and local government entities in my district for 18 years,” Rush said.“Local elected officials and community leaders know they can count on me to help meet the needs of our communities regardless of political party and that will not change.”The new redistricting plan maintains the three current African American districts and one district with a majority of Hispanic voters, preserving the intent of the Voting Rights Act.Rush described the map, in effect for the next decade, as fair and balanced.“I’d like to thank State Senator Kwame Raoul and Illinois House Majority Leader Barbara Flynn Currie for their leadership in chairing their respective Senate and House Redistricting committees. The leadership of Senate President John Cullerton, House Speaker Michael Madigan and Governor Pat Quinn are also to be commended.”# # #
06.24.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) today announced that the final hurdle to begin construction of a $133 million rail project, based in Chicago’s Englewood community, has been cleared.The Federal Railroad Administration has obligated the funding to the Illinois Department of Transportation for work on the Englewood flyover bridge. This project is a critical part of CREATE, the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program, a public-private partnership between the U.S. Department of Transportation, the State of Illinois, City of Chicago, Metra, Amtrak and the nation's freight railroads.The bridge is designed to reduce delays of freight and passenger trains that result from a bottleneck at the Norfolk Southern/METRA Rock Island line interlock near 63rd and State Streets. The new bridge will carry Metra trains over the NS/Amtrak tracks at that location. This project will bring significant and broad-based opportunities for Chicago and minority businesses according to Congressman Rush who was among the leadership that helped bring the project to his district. “I appreciate the cooperation and enlightened leadership of all the parties involved in our negotiations. In particular I am especially grateful for the work of the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, Joe Szabo, who was a key player in moving this project forward.“I also want to thank my friend and colleague Congresswoman Corrine Brown, Ranking Democratic Member of the House Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials, for her invaluable support and leadership in assisting me in this process.” In response, Congresswoman Brown said, “The Englewood flyover project is a vital component in moving CREATE forward and will generate thousands of good paying jobs at a critical time. Eliminating these significant bottlenecks will improve congestion throughout our entire national rail network and improves the delivery of goods and services to every state.” The flyover impacts the 1st Congressional District and the Chicago Region in several important ways:1,450 new construction jobsshorter trip times for passengersenvironmental and health benefits from fewer idling locomotiveslays the foundation for high speed passenger rail that will serve the south and east of Chicago into Union StationThe bridge represents the second stage in Congressman Rush’s transportation vision for the 1st Congressional District. The first stage was successfully completed just this year with the opening of the Lou Jones/Bronzeville Metra Station at 35th and Federal on the South Side of Chicago. Rush secured $4.9 million in federal funds to complete that project.“We anticipate breaking ground for the flyover during the current construction season. I will be working hard to ensure that businesses and residents of the first congressional district will be afforded every opportunity to work and obtain contracts,” Rush said.The project will be paid for through federal stimulus funds. It is the result of two years of negotiations between the Norfolk Southern, the FRA, METRA, Amtrak and the Illinois Department of Transportation that began shortly after a meeting was convened by Congressman Rush. Major stakeholders involved in that March, 2010 meeting included Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and, then, Chairman James Oberstar of the House Transportation Committee. Other details of this exciting project will be forthcoming.# # #
06.23.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are marking up the “North American Made Energy Security Act,” or the TransCanada bill, which would short circuit the permitting process and require the Secretary of Energy to coordinate all of the federal agencies in charge of issuing a final decision on the Keystone XL pipeline by an arbitrary timeline. “I would like to inform the Committee that I intend to re-introduce my toxics chemicals reform bill in the very near future. That bill would also be directed to the Environment and Economy subcommittee for consideration. “Americans want, need, and demand to know what chemicals are in their consumer products, their food and drink, their homes, and their surrounding communities. My bill will attempt to provide clearer answers to the American consumer. And, it will clearly define the scope of the EPA’s authority, just as it did in the 111th Congress, to ensure that all chemical substances are properly reviewed to ensure public health and human safety. That authority will keep American families healthier, just as the Clean Air Act gave the EPA authority––and the Supreme Court reaffirmed unanimously this week––to regulate air pollutants. “Mr. Chairman, only a week ago in a hearing on pipeline safety in the Energy and Power subcommittee the nation’s foremost experts on this subject testified that, currently, we do not have a comprehensive plan for transporting tar sands through the heart of our country. And, further, we do not even know if this substance provides a greater risk than other types of crude oil. “In fact, the Administrator of the Pipeline Safety and Hazardous Materials Administration (PHMSA), as well as the Executive Director of the Pipeline Safety Trust, told the subcommittee directly that this issue has not even been studied at all. “So today, we simply don’t know how transporting this type of bitumen could affect pipeline safety or how a spill might impact our environment. “Yet, instead of heeding the advice of the very experts responsible for overseeing the safety of our pipelines and examining this issue more carefully before moving forward, here we are marking up a bill directing the Administration to hurry up and make a decision on the pipeline, no matter if the agencies responsible for studying this issue have completed their vital work or not. “It appears the majority’s view is let’s move full speed ahead, and we’ll worry about safety after the fact. “For my constituents who witnessed this same type of reckless behavior on the part of BP executives leading up to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill last spring, this bill is incomprehensible, especially coming from representatives of the people. “We simply do not have a plan, or, some would say, a clue. It would be reckless indeed for Congress to attempt to rush approval for this pipeline, as this bill clearly does, without having first studied the safety precautions associated with moving forward. “I urge all of my colleagues to support the amendment I will offer and with that I yield back my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety, including the webcast, by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on “H.R. 1938 and the Semi Annual Committee Activity Report"
06.22.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON ––“Mr. Speaker, I am not opposed to drilling in Alaska and I am not opposed to streamlining the permitting process in a sensible and thoughtful manner. “But I do object to cutting out input and participation from the very communities that will be most affected by this process or preempting states’ authority in order to expedite the permitting process for a single company. “Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, many of the less affluent communities, who will ultimately be affected by the permitting process, do not have the resources of the oil industry to lobby Congress on their own behalf. “And while this bill will benefit Shell, the repercussions and consequences, intended and unintended, will have a much greater impact on many different stakeholders. “If the majority had been willing to work with our side on this bill, as we offered to do, we could have crafted a bipartisan piece of legislation that could move through the House and Senate and, ultimately, become law. We begged, we pleaded we almost crawled to get bipartisan participation on this bill. “However, this bill does not take into account some of the very real concerns that the minority has outlined on several occasions. “In fact, yesterday, the White House issued a statement opposing this bill because, and I quote: “H.R. 2021 would curtail the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Clean Air Act (CAA) to help ensure that domestic oil production on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) proceeds safely, responsibly, and with opportunities for efficient stakeholder input…H.R. 2021 would limit existing EPA authority to protect human health and the environment…H.R. 2021 would increase Federal court litigation and deprive citizens of an important avenue for challenging government action that affects local public health.” “Mr. Speaker, this bill is not about creating jobs, and it is not about lowering gasoline prices. It is a giveaway, a blatant giveaway an unadulterated giveaway to the oil industry that will increase pollution along our coasts. “In fact, as the Administration has pointed out, 70 percent of offshore leases that oil companies currently possess are not even—at this very moment—in production! Seventy percent of the leases that the oil companies own are not now in production and 29 million acres of onshore permits aren’t being developed as we speak. “So it is unnecessary for Congress to intervene by sacrificing public participation and air quality protections for the sake of expediency on behalf of the Shell Company as this bill does. “Mr. Speaker, I hope, I sincerely hope, that we can find bipartisan support for the amendments that will be offered today, including my own, that would simply allow the EPA Administrator to provide additional 30-day extensions if the Administrator determines that such time is necessary to provide adequate time for public participation and sufficient involvement by affected states. “My hope is that we can move forward a stronger bill that may actually have the chance to become law. “With that I yield back my time.” # # # Here's a link to Ranking Member Rush's floor statements as posted on YouTube: Rush Leads Floor Debate on XL Pipeline - 1 of 3 Statements Rush Leads Floor Debate on XL Pipeline - 2 of 3 Statements Rush Leads Floor Debate on XL Pipeline - 3 of 3 Statements
06.15.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. “Mr. Chairman, today we are marking up the “North American-Made Energy Security Act,” a bill that would short-circuit the permitting process and require the Secretary of Energy to coordinate all of the federal agencies in charge of issuing a final decision on the Keystone XL pipeline by an arbitrary timeline. “The problem as I see it is that the majority is attempting to use an act of Congress to direct the Administration to do what it is already in the process of doing. “In a media notice dated June 6, the State Department issued a statement saying they expected to make a final decision granting or denying the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline “before the end of 2011.” “However, this bill would force the Administration to issue the presidential permit for the pipeline within 30 days of the final environmental impact statement and no later than November 1, 2011, regardless of whether the review process has been completed. “This arbitrary timeline would reduce the allotted time that federal agencies would have to determine the national interest in deciding this proposal by almost two-thirds, while also reducing or eliminating the 30-day public comment period “Mr. Chairman, I find it difficult to understand why Congress needs to intervene to direct the Administration to do what it is already in the process of doing anyway. “I also find it equally disturbing that this committee would attempt to cut out the time for the various agencies to weigh in and make their national interest determinations, or the time for the public to weigh in, simply to instruct the Administration to make a decision two months before it has already said it would do so. “The reason why this permitting process has taken the time that it has is because the EPA had serious concerns with the initial environmental impact statement that the State Department issued and it was sent back to be modified and updated. “The State Department then decided to allow the public and other decision-makers to review the updated information so all of the relevant information could be considered. “This bill seeks to force the Administration to make a decision regarding Keystone XL, regardless if all of the information has been reviewed and considered. “I would submit that, despite the potential benefits that this pipeline may or may not ultimately deliver, it is extremely important that all of the relevant information and consequent impacts be considered so that an informed decision can be made. “With a project this consequential, short-circuiting the permitting process in order to expedite a decision a couple of months early, would be shortsighted and unacceptable to the American people and to the communities this pipeline will ultimately affect if it is to be built. “In order to allow the public and agencies the appropriate time to comment I will offer an amendment to push back the November 1st deadline, while also ensuring that a decision is made in a timely manner. “I urge all of my colleagues to support the amendment I will offer and with that I yield back my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Energy and Power Subcommittee Markup on "H.R. 1938"
06.07.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov CHICAGO ––In response to chronic instances of crime in the Beat 624 area of the 6th Chicago Police District, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush held a “Let’s Talk About It” community conversation with top law enforcement officials, parents, students, residents and community leaders from a part of his district which, sadly, has been described by local residents as “The Crime Spine of the City.” This event began, last night, at 6:00 p.m. at the St. Dorothy Catholic Church Fellowship Hall at 450 E. 78th Street in Chicago. Beat 624 includes the Chatham Avalon and Park Manor communities—areas that were once flourishing, middle-class neighborhoods. Today, the community is besieged by dope dealers operating out in the open, automatic weapons that are fired in broad daylight, incidents of aggravated battery and burglary. Senior citizens are often afraid to leave their homes. Students who want to get an education are often afraid to walk to and from school by themselves. Business owners complain of lost revenue because of crime. This is occurring at a time when trust in law enforcement has been compromised with some honest citizens feeling as if they are caught in the middle between crime and corruption. Joining Rush at this event were Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy, Sixth District Commander Eddie Johnson, Cook County State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez, Illinois State Police Director Hiram Grau, ATF Special Agent Andrew Traver, DEA Special Agent John J. Riley, FBI Special Agent Robert Grant and 6th Ward Alderman Roderick Sawyer. This conversation marked a first step in the process of healing so that residents and law enforcement could find ways to work together, more effectively, to restore this community. In opening remarks to the more than 300 residents and community leaders who attended, in part, Congressman Rush said, “We gather inside the beautiful sanctuary of St. Dorothy Church and I want to thank Father Bob Miller for welcoming us here this evening. Shootings, flash mobs, pepper spray assaults by young men have been in the headlines this weekend. It seems to me that if it happens on the north side it’s news, but when it happens here nobody pays attention. “The fact of the matter is that we are all one community. Our young people are connected by technology and they’ve got too much time on their hands. The fact is that what happens in one neighborhood is not really separate from what happens in another neighborhood. The sooner everybody comes to terms with this reality the better off we will all be. “This is not the first time that we have had a serious crime problem in this beat. I recall that in 1998 we had similar meetings and action was taken by police and community leaders to solve the problem. Now it’s back. And, once again, we find ourselves reacting. “We are here, tonight, looking for solutions, real solutions! We know law enforcement is a big part of what we must do. But law enforcement cannot work without the consent and cooperation of honest citizens. Cooperation cannot happen without trust. And, yet, without security freedom is lost. “Tonight, I urge everyone on the panel and in the pews to come from a place of deep respect and true listening. My hope, at the very least, is that tonight we will begin to chart a productive way forward to transform this community to a place of peace and opportunity for all of us.” At the conclusion of this event, Congressman Rush committed to a series of next steps including the fact that he, personally, would respond to an appeal from a student who was present last night who said that he and some of his friends were afraid to walk home from their high school, without an adult present, out of fear of being attacked by bullies or worse. Also, there was an offer made by Sixth District Commander Eddie Johnson to extend the extra police presence in Beat 624 by 90 days. Rush called on Johnson and his superiors to extend the increased patrols by at least a full year. # # #
05.31.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON ––"Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of our distinguished guests for being here today. "Mr. Chairman, today we are holding a hearing on the Grid Reliability and Infrastructure Defense Act, or the GRID Act for short. "This bipartisan piece of legislation is identical to the bill that was favorably reported out of the Energy and Commerce Committee, unanimously, last year, and then went on to pass the House by voice vote, before getting stalled in the Senate. "Mr. Chairman, this bill represents the type of legislation that advances the security interests of all Americans, and shows what can be accomplished when we choose to work together in a bipartisan manner. "So I appreciate you conducting this hearing today, Mr. Chairman, and I hope and expect that we will move this bill with the same type of cooperation and collaboration that we experienced in the last session as this legislation moves through the committee. "Mr. Chairman, the U.S. electric grid consists of interconnected transmission lines and local distribution systems that deliver electricity to our homes, schools, offices, generation facilities and related communications systems. "The intricate design of the grid makes all of the components highly interdependent, so that problems and outages in one location can lead to a domino effect of reliability concerns in other areas. "In today’s highly digitized world, the operational controls over the transmission grid and generators are increasingly managed by computer systems, such as the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, or SCADA systems, which are linked to the Internet or other communications systems, as well as to each other. "This reliance on automation and two-way communications amplifies the grid’s vulnerability to remote cyber attacks. "Additionally, the increased use of advanced metering systems and other smart grid capabilities leaves our electric grid even more open to attack. "Mr. Chairman, this bill would amend the Federal Power Act to add a new section, 215A, which would give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) new authorities to protect the electric grid from cyber attacks, as well as from other threats, including those posed from geomagnetic storms created by solar activity. "Additionally, this bill would provide FERC with the authority to issue emergency orders to protect against a grid security threat whether by malicious act, a geomagnetic storm, or a targeted physical attack, if the President notifies the Commission that such a threat exists. "Mr. Chairman, we are all aware of the constant potential threats our nation faces, rather by countries such as China and Russia, that have already conducted cyber "probes" of U.S. grid systems, or by terrorist organizations looking for ways to weaken our capabilities. "Cyber attacks can cause untold harm to our nation’s grid and they can be done from faraway locations, at low cost, and with little trace. "So it is imperative that we provide those agencies that are responsible for protecting our nation’s grid with all of the tools, authority and resources they need to keep us safe. "So, I applaud you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this very important hearing today, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and experts on this critical issue. "And with that I yield back my time." ### NOTE: You may view today's hearing in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Hearing on "Grid Reliability and Infrastructure Defense Act"
05.31.2011	Committee on Energy and CommerceRep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking MemberFor Immediate Release: May 31, 2011Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-3641Sharon Jenkins (Rush): (202) 225-4372Washington, DC – Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep.Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, alerted Chairman Fred Upton that the Energy and Power Subcommittee acted in violation of the Committee’s discretionary CutGo rule in reporting H.R. 1705, known as the TRAIN Act. Reps. Waxman and Rush urged Chairman Upton to delay consideration of the legislation until the Congressional Budget Office scores the bill and Chairman Upton clarifies the application of the Committee rule.The full text of the letter is below and is also available online here.The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Upton: We are writing to alert you that the Energy and Power Subcommittee has acted in violation of the policies you announced at the beginning of this Congress in reporting H.R. 1705, known as the TRAIN Act. We urge you to delay consideration of the legislation until the Congressional Budget Office scores the legislation and the matter is addressed. When the Committee organized earlier this year, you announced that the Committee would be “THE Austerity Committee in the House of Representatives.”[1] As one of your policies, you stated that the Committee would be following a discretionary CutGo rule.[2] You announced, “You may have a great idea for a new program; that’s fine. Just tell us how you will pay for it by reducing spending in another discretionary program.”[3] You also announced another policy. You stated that the practice of not specifying authorization amounts was over.[4] You said, “Maybe the authors don’t know how much something will cost – more likely, the authors are afraid to put a gigantic dollar figure on their idea. And so we simply cede discretion to the appropriators. Well, no more.”[5] You described these as “the central policies in deciding what legislation is scheduled for consideration in Committee.”[6] On Tuesday, May 24, 2011, the Energy and Power Subcommittee reported the TRAIN Act in violation of these policies. This legislation creates a new government entity, the Committee for the Cumulative Analysis of Regulations that Impact Energy and Manufacturing in the United States, and charges it with conducting a complex array of cumulative and incremental impact analyses of ten specified EPA regulations and potentially many other regulations and actions. Each of the analyses must examine fourteen separate factors plus uncertainties plus “covered actions” taken by over 100 state and local agencies implementing aspects of the regulations. As introduced, the TRAIN Act included an authorization for appropriations of $2 million for fiscal years 2012 and 2013, an authorization many of us thought unrealistically low for such a difficult undertaking. During the Subcommittee markup, an amendment offered by Rep. Sullivan to strike this authorization was adopted. Rep. Sullivan stated that once the specific authorization amount was removed, the agencies would simply use “existing resources under the current operating budgets” to implement the legislation.[7] He stated:I also note that the adoption of this amendment will keep our bipartisan legislation in compliance with both Chairman Upton’s principles for our markups and Majority Leader Cantor’s protocols for floor consideration under discretionary cut-go principles.[8] However, Rep. Sullivan appears to be fundamentally misinformed about the effect of his amendment. Striking the authorization from H.R. 1705 does not have the effect of forcing the executive branch to implement the legislation with existing resources. To the contrary, it has the effect of creating an implicit authorization of “such sums as may be necessary.” The Government Accountability Office publishes the authoritative reference concerning federal fiscal law, Principles of Federal Appropriations Law, commonly referred to as the Red Book. According to the Red Book:The existence of a statute (organic legislation) imposing substantive functions upon an agency that require funding for their performance is itself sufficient authorization for the necessary appropriations.[9] The estimates of the Congressional Budget Office reflect this understanding and consultation with CBO staff confirm it. CBO provides “estimated authorizations” for legislation that do not have specific authorization clauses. For example, in a case particularly analogous to the TRAIN Act, S. 493 was recently reported from the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. Although the legislation does not contain an authorization clause, CBO provided an estimated authorization for provisions requiring a National Research Council study, reporting that “CBO estimates that conducting a study as required by S. 493 would cost $4 million over the 2012-2016 period.”[10] We do not believe the subterfuge used to report the TRAIN Act by the Subcommittee is appropriate. Members may have different views about the wisdom of the discretionary CutGo rule you announced for the Committee. We should all agree, however, that the rule should be applied evenhandedly. We urge you to remedy this situation by postponing markup of the TRAIN Act until (1) CBO can score the legislation and provide members with an accurate assessment of its costs and (2) you clarify how the Committee will process legislation that will cost millions of taxpayer dollars to implement but has no specific authorization and no provisions to pay for the costs. Thank you for the consideration of our request. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. Rush Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power[1]Press Release, House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Chairman Fred Upton's Remarks from Committee Organizational Meeting (Jan. 20, 2011) (online at https://energycommerce.house.gov/News/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=8155).[2]Id.[3]Id.[4]Id.[5]Id.[6]Id.[7]Statement of Rep. John Sullivan, House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Energy and Power, Markup on H.R. 1705, the “Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation Act of 2011” and Discussion Draft of H.R. __, the “Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 2011,” 112th Cong. (May 24, 2011).[8]Id.[9]Government Accountability Office, Principles of Federal Appropriations Law, Third Edition, Vol. I (Jan. 2004) (online at https://www.gao.gov/legal/redbook.html).[10]Congressional Budget Office, S. 493 SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act of 2011 (Mar. 11, 2011) (online at https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/120xx/doc12098/s493.pdf).
05.30.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) joined U. S. Senator Dick Durbin and a large gathering of Illinois residents, elected officials and grieving families who gathered on May 30, the Sunday before Memorial day, at the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery in Elwood, Illinois to participate in a wreath laying ceremony to honor military veterans who gave the ultimate sacrifice for their nation. The cemetery is located approximately 50 miles south of Chicago and is named after the 16th President of the United States who also founded the National Cemeteries to honor America’s war veterans. Rush, who was honorably discharged from the U. S. Army, offered his condolences to the families and friends of those who died in service to their country and offered these words of comfort.“I am proud and humbled to stand with you and the many distinguished guests here, today, to remember our brave sons and daughters who gave their lives for freedom.“It is no small thing, this willingness to sacrifice life and limb for the love of country.“It is no small thing to go into battle knowing that death is as likely an outcome as life. “It is no small thing for parents to send their beloved children onto foreign soil. “And it is certainly no small thing for the wives, husbands and children who are left behind.“Words are always too small. “They always fail us because the deeds of those who sleep on these 982 acres of hallowed ground are beyond what any person can say. And the loss felt by every family breaks the heart, pierces the soul and leaves us changed.“In spite of the pain we must search for the words anyway. Words are a part of remembering, reconciliation and healing. We must never forget what these men and women have done.“And, so, I say to you today as a veteran, as a congressman, as a parent, as a minister of the faith, as the grandfather of a young man now serving our country in Korea, I say our soldiers did not die in vain. “They died for the American ideal, written by the framers of our constitution.“They died for the very thing that people across the globe are taking to the streets to demand. “They died so that our children could be free to become whatever they are willing to work hard enough to become.“They died so that you and I can stand together, or apart, and speak our minds and criticize our government without fear of being jailed or killed for the words we speak.“They died so that each of us is free to find God, in our own way, without government interference.“They died so America could become the strong, democratic republic that stands as a bright star of promise and hope to the world.“Today, we love them, we remember them and we thank them because we know that without them there would be no us. “And, finally, ladies and gentlemen we also thank the living.“Thank you Gold Star families. I know you miss your loved ones every day.“Thank you, Sergio Lopez, and the Lopez family. Sergio, continue to walk tall. You are a role model for us all.“Thank you to the school children who came to sing and speak. You are the future of the nation and I know from your presence here, today, that our country’s future will be in good hands.“Thank you to the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery Memorial Squad for the rendering of honors year round. Your compassionate, ceremonial work places a balm on our sorrows.“Tomorrow, we will argue, democracy is messy, and passionate debate is expected. But not today. “Today, our nation stands together. We are one people. We are one America. We are one in remembering. And we will not, we must not, ever forget.“May God bless you all.”# # #Above: Congressman Rush takes a moment to pose, before the ceremony began, withSergio Lopez and his family. Lopez, an Iraq war veteran, lost both of his legsin Operation Iraqi Freedom. He and family live in Hillside, Illinois
05.25.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov "Good afternoon, Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman. "I am extremely disappointed by the Majority's decision to markup landmark legislation that is effectively protecting our children from dangerous and hazardous products and toys. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, or CPSIA, also known as the Rush-Pryor bill, was passed in the House by a whopping bi-partisan vote of 407-0. 192 of those Members voting for CPSIA were Republicans, including some members on this very Committee. "The Majority's bill, H.R. 1939, the "Enhancing CPSC Authority and Discretion Act of 2011" is a vehicle for shielding industry from liability, clamping down on consumers' rights of free speech to share information about defective products with the CPSC and other parents and consumers, and categorically exempting some toy and children's product makers from carrying out third-party testing obligations. The bill is also inappropriately named in that it would weaken and not enhance the Consumer Product Safety Commission's authority to regulate and verify the safety of children's products. "H.R. 1939 does not resolve legitimate issues regarding the extent to which targeted relief should be afforded to industry. Rather, it is a vehicle that the Majority is using to roll back needed and crucial product safeguards and protections for children, including those children who are in my District. "My district in Illinois has one of the highest rates of childhood lead poisoning in the nation. According to the Chicago Department of Public Health, Greater Englewood is Chicago's worst neighborhood and has one of the nation's highest rates for lead poisoning among children. "This is not a trivial matter. Lead affects children's behavior and is undoubtedly linked to brain damage, reduced IQ, hearing impairments, and learning disabilities. And in higher doses, lead has been shown to damage children's kidneys and central nervous systems as well as cause anemia, coma, convulsions, and death. "Blood samples taken from 567 children, ages 0-6, in Englewood were found to have elevated lead levels in 2008. In 2009, 4,535 children in Chicago were lead poisoned; and 1,511 children had "elevated lead blood levels." Over one-third of these children (38%) tested in 2009 were from greater Englewood. "This legislation, which the Majority has scheduled for full committee markup tomorrow, proposes to tip-toe around these severe problems by using variable standards and limits for lead content in different types and parts of children's products. It also would impose irrational limits on the numbers and types of products that are required to undergo independent third party testing. Finally, it hurls unprovoked attacks against the CPSC's new SaferProducts.gov database and sensible protections ensuring the safety of cribs in child care facilities. "These changes do not promote children's protection. What they do is threaten children's safety, and that is unacceptable. Rather, the Majority draft will greatly weaken the Consumer Product Safety Commission's authority and it unacceptably compromises our children's safety. "On behalf of America's children and their parents and guardians, I urge my colleagues to remember how far we have come to improve children's product safety since 2007. We have successfully rooted out widespread negligence and problematic practices in the development of children's products and toy supply and testing chains. "Why we would take two huge steps backwards with this bill after taking a giant step forward to protect the health and well-being of our children is incomprehensible. I can assure you it is not the destination that 407 Members of Congress had in mind when CPSIA was voted upon and passed out of the House back in December, 2007. "Thank you. With that, I yield back the balance of my time." ### NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Full Committee Markup on "H.R. 908" and "H.R. 1939" (Opening Statements) Full Markup on "H.R. 908" (Debate)
05.25.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov Washington –– Today, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced plans to redeploy 500 Chicago Police Department Officers to high crime areas that, in part, cover portions of the city that are in the First Congressional District of Illinois. In response, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush released the following video statement. The text of his statement is reprinted here: "Last week I personally telephoned top city, state and federal law enforcement officials urging them to join me in a community meeting on June 6th at St. Dorothy Catholic Church, 450 East 78th Street. At that meeting we will listen to residents and, with their help, take real steps in solving the crisis of violent crime in Beat 624 of the Sixth Police District. According to police statistics, Beat 624 is the most violent police beat in the city. My constituents and district office staff live and work, daily, with a situation that is dangerous and clearly out of control. It cannot continue. "I am pleased with the first step that Mayor Emanuel has taken even before our meeting. The redeployment of 500 Chicago police to high crime beats is a hopeful sign. While this is a temporary measure, I believe steps must be taken for a more long-term solution. The kind of trust that has to occur between residents and police in order to really prevent and solve crime cannot be built in a three-month deployment. We will all have to do more. "I have also called upon federal law enforcement, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives as well as the Illinois State Police to bring their joint resources to bear on this problem. We need all hands on deck. While policing is a local government function, in an emergency, with the consent of the community, more resources must be deployed in Chicago. The stakes are extremely high and this is a critical issue. Seniors cannot be afraid to leave their homes and children cannot be afraid to walk to school. "Realistically we all know there is only so much that police can do. "Without summer jobs I fear that some of our young people will turn to illegal underground economies that put them into a cycle of violence, prison or death. Last week, more than a thousand young people, some from Chicago, marched on Washington to demand that summer jobs programs not be cut. These young people are warning us that without jobs crime will flourish. They are warning us of what we already know…an idle mind is the devil's workshop. "I have introduced H.R. 1901, the "SAY YEA" Bill that will bring more than $6.5 billion dollars into our cities to hire young people in public works jobs. It provides tax incentives for private companies to hire young people. I urge the passage of this vital piece of legislation and I encourage every private employer to find a way to hire young people this summer. "Our youth deserve better than the budget cuts that we're offering them right now. "Our seniors have earned the right to be safe and protected in their homes and communities. "More police will probably help. But we must get to the root of the problem. Honest neighborhood residents must know they will be protected, long term, if they cooperate with police. Youth jobs are an absolute necessity and a great beginning." # # # NOTE: Here's a link to the digital file of this video statement: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=18ExQ58nDN8 ###
05.24.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I extend my thanks to all of our guests for being here today. “Mr. Chairman, today we are marking up the so-called “Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 2011,” which would amend section 328 of the Clean Air Act that addresses air pollution from Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) drilling activities, and the TRAIN Act, which would establish an interagency panel to analyze certain aspects of EPA regulations. “The TRAIN Act would highlight the costs of implementing certain EPA rules but does not take into account all of the benefits of these regulations, including enhanced public health, increased job productivity or lives saved. “This bill would also not take into account the positive impacts that EPA regulations have had on our economy, including spurring additional research and development of clean energy technologies, instituting higher fuel efficiency standards and helping make the country less dependent on foreign oil. “Unfortunately, for many of my colleagues, if the benefits of a regulation cannot be monetized, such as lives saved or job loss prevented, then they are written off as having no economic value. “I would submit that for many local communities, especially those less affluent ones which are so often disproportionately affected by dirty air and the consequences that come with it, the omission of health impacts in the analysis that the TRAIN Act calls for would be a great disservice to them. “Additionally, my concerns with the “Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 2011” have been expressed through each step of this legislative process. “The minority and majority staffs have met to try and come up with a bipartisan bill that many on this side of the aisle could support, but to no avail. “As I have stated in both hearings on this bill, putting the environmental impacts aside, momentarily, one of my biggest concerns is that this bill would attempt to reduce the input of local communities that, in many cases, are home to the people most affected by drilling in these areas. “As representatives of the people, I find it odd that we would vote to take away the American people’s right to participate in the local permitting process, with the charade that we are doing this in their best interest. “The amendments that I will offer today will attempt to address these problems so that we are not cutting out the people who are the most vulnerable and who have the most to lose when these permitting and regulatory decisions are made. “I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will be open to strengthening these bills so that they are not being jammed through the committee, and eventually the House floor, only to ultimately die in the Senate for lack of bipartisan support. Let’s get it done in a bipartisan manner and let’s get it done today! “And, so, I look forward to the markup today and with that I yield the balance of my time.” # # # NOTE: You may view today's markup proceeding in its entirety by visiting the Democratic Site of the Energy and Commerce Committee by clicking here: Energy and Power Subcommittee Markup on "The TRAIN Act" and "The Energy Permitting Act"
05.23.2011	Committee on Energy and CommerceRep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking MemberFor Immediate Release: May 23, 2011Karen Lightfoot/Lindsay Vidal (Waxman): (202) 225-3641Sharon Jenkins (Rush): (202) 225-4372Washington, DC – Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee,and Rep.Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power,sent a letter to Chairman Fred Upton requesting a hearing on two new reports on climate change from the National Academy of Sciences and the Vatican, which find that climate change is occurring and that urgent action is needed to address its dangers.The full text of the letter is below and also available online here.May 23, 2011The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Upton: We are writing to request that you hold a hearing on climate change to examine two important new reports, one from the National Academy of Sciences and one from the Vatican. Both reports find that climate change is occurring and that urgent action is needed to address its dangers. On May 12, 2011, the National Academy of Sciences, our nation’s preeminent scientific organization, released a new report entitled “America’s Climate Choices.”[1] This study was requested by Congress in 2007 to examine the issues associated with global climate change and provide recommendations on the most effective steps and strategies to address it. The study participants included members of academia, government, business and industry, nongovernmental organizations and the international community. The study participants were charged with writing a consensus report that provides authoritative analyses to inform and guide our response to climate change. The National Academy of Sciences found that “climate change is occurring, is very likely caused primarily by human activities, and poses significant risks to humans and the environment.” The Academy called delaying action “imprudent” and urged that the United States should begin ramping down emissions as soon as possible and should reduce greenhouse gas emissions “substantially over the coming decades.” Some of the reasons for action cited in the report are:The faster emissions are reduced, the lower the risks posed by climate change. Delays in reducing emissions could commit the planet to a wide range of ad­verse impacts, especially if the sensitivity of the climate to greenhouse gases is on the higher end of the estimated range.Waiting for unacceptable impacts to occur before taking action is imprudent because the effects of greenhouse gas emissions do not fully manifest them­selves for decades and, once manifested, many of these changes will persist for hundreds or even thousands of years.The sooner that serious efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions proceed, the less pressure there will be to make steeper (and thus likely more expen­sive) emission reductions later.The United States and the rest of the world are currently making major invest­ments in new energy infrastructure that will largely determine the trajectory of emissions for decades to come. Getting the relevant incentives and policies in place as soon as possible will provide crucial guidance for these investment decisions.The risks associated with doing business as usual are a much greater concern than the risks associated with engaging in strong response efforts. This is because many aspects of an “overly ambitious” policy response could be reversed if needed, through subsequent policy change; whereas adverse changes in the climate system are much more difficult (in­deed, on the timescale of our lifetimes, may be impossible) to “undo.”[2] A May 11 report commissioned by the Pontifical Academy of Sciences at the Vatican also emphasized the dangers of climate change.[3] The Pontifical Academy operates under the direct protection of the Pope to promote the progress of mathematical, physical, and natural sciences. It has had 76 Nobel Prize winners among its members. The report recognizes that human activities are causing dangerous climate change and urges prompt and unequivocal action to curb greenhouse gas emissions: We call on all people and nations to recognize the serious and potentially irreversible impacts of global warming caused by the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, and by changes in forests, wetlands, grasslands, and other land uses. We appeal to all nations to develop and implement, without delay, effective and fair policies to reduce the causes and impacts of climate change on communities and ecosystems. … By acting now, in the spirit of common but differentiated responsibility, we accept our duty to one another and to the stewardship of a planet blessed with the gift of life. We request that you call a hearing to receive testimony from the authors of these reports. While the conclusions reached in these reports reinforce what scientists have been telling us for years, they illustrate the remarkable scientific consensus on the issue and present constructive efforts to find solutions. We believe members would benefit by hearing from the authors of these reports, particularly since a majority of the Committee voted earlier this year to deny the existence of climate change. Holding a hearing with the authors of the National Academy of Sciences report and the Vatican report would help members understand the urgent need for action and the serious consequences of inaction. It could also help lay the foundation for constructive work in the Committee on the issue of climate change. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely,Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. RushRanking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Energy and Power [1]National Research Council of the National Academies, America’s Climate Choices (May 2011).[2]Id.[3]Working Group Commissioned by the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, Fate of Mountain Glaciers in the Anthropocene (May 11, 2011) (online at https://www.vatican.va/roman_curia/pontifical_academies/acdscien/).
05.23.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of our guests for being here today."Mr. Chairman, today we are holding a hearing on the "North American Made Energy Security Act of 2011," which would require the Secretary of Energy to coordinate all of the federal agencies in charge of issuing a final decision on the Keystone XL pipeline, in an expeditious manner."On the surface this proposal seems reasonable enough, as it requires the Obama Administration to quickly come to a decision on whether it will grant approval for the Keystone XL Pipeline, which would bring additional Canadian crude into U.S. markets, and help replace the supply of oil that we import from the Middle East and other overseas countries."Alas, if this issue was really that simple then it wouldn’t take an act of Congress to make it happen and we wouldn’t be here, today, holding a hearing on it in this subcommittee."Mr. Chairman, today, I’ll withhold judgment on whether or not I can support this bill because there are some important issues that deserve greater examination, and I’m pleased that we are holding this hearing to bring these issues to light."This bill would force the Administration to issue the presidential permit for the pipeline within 30 days of the final environmental impact statement and no later than November 1, 2011."This arbitrary timeline would reduce the allotted time that federal agencies would have to determine the national interest in deciding this proposal by almost two-thirds, while also reducing, or eliminating, the 30-day public comment period, and I have serious concerns about this. "I believe public input is a vital and necessary part of the determination process, especially for the local communities that will be most affected by a decision to move forward."I also look forward to learning more about the environmental impact of importing crude from the western Canadian oil sands, and how this would affect greenhouse gas emissions."However, the biggest concern I have today is what type of impact this pipeline would have on oil prices for my constituents in Chicago, in Illinois, and in the Midwest in general. "Mr. Chairman, according to AAA’s Fuel Gauge Report, in Chicago, we are already paying the highest average gas prices in the nation at $4.37 a gallon, which is well above the national average."I have, here, an AP article, dated January 25th, where TransCanada Corp, the sponsor of the Keystone pipeline, stated that it expected oil prices in the Midwest to rise if this pipeline is approved."In fact, I also have part of the TransCanada Assessment, as well as the transcript before the Canadian National Energy Board (NEB), in which TransCanada testified that the Keystone pipeline would drive up the price of crude for many Midwest states including Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, the Dakotas, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Wisconsin."TransCanada representatives are on record saying that Keystone XL would address what they term an "oversupplied" Midwest market, which they believe has resulted in "price discounting" for Canadian-heavy crude oil."Building this pipeline would divert supply from the Midwest to the Gulf Coast and I quote:"The resultant increase in the price of heavy crude is estimated to provide an increase in annual revenue to the Canadian producing industry in 2013, of U.S. $2 billion to U.S. $3.9 billion.""Now, as fond as I am of our friends to the North, I would much rather keep that $2 to $3.9 billion in the pockets of our constituents in the Midwest than giving it to our friends in Canada."So, I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and experts on this important issue."And with that I yield back my time."# # #NOTE: Here’s a link to the discussion draft text: Click to read the draft.###
05.20.2011	Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking MemberFor Immediate Release: May 20, 2011Karen Lightfoot (Waxman) (202) 225-3641Sharon Jenkins (Rush) (202) 225-4372WASHINGTON, D. C. — Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power, sent a letter urging the Committee to request documents from Koch Industries relating to the company’s interest in Canadian tar sands and the extent to which it will benefit if the Keystone XL pipeline is constructed. This request is made in anticipation of a hearing next week on draft legislation to expedite federal approval of the pipeline.The full text of the letter is below. It is also available online and can be accessed by clicking here:https://democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?q=news/... May 20, 2011The Honorable Fred UptonChairmanCommittee on Energy and Commerce2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingThe Honorable Ed WhitfieldChairmanSubcommittee on Energy and Power2125 Rayburn House Office BuildingDear Chairmen Upton and Whitfield:Next week, the Energy and Power Subcommittee holds a legislative hearing on draft legislation to expedite federal approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. This pipeline will significantly expand markets for Canadian tar sands crude and will provide new sources of supply to U.S. refineries. We are writing to request that in preparation for the hearing on and markup of this draft legislation, the Committee request documents from Koch Industries relating to the company’s interests in Canadian tar sands and the extent to which it will benefit if the Keystone XL pipeline is constructed.According to Reuters, Charles and David Koch, the owners of Koch Industries, are “positioned to be big winners if Keystone XL pipeline is approved” and would receive “great financial opportunity.” Publicly available information indicates that the company is involved in several aspects of Canadian tar sands development. Koch’s Pine Bend Refinery in Minnesota currently processes roughly 25% of the tar sands fuel imports to the United States. Koch owns Flint Hills Resources, LLP, in Calgary, Canada, which is “among Canada’s largest crude oil purchasers, shippers and exporters.” Flint Hills Resources also operates a crude oil terminal in Hardisty, Alberta, where the Keystone XL pipeline will begin. According to the Government of Alberta, Koch Industries has both proposed and producing tar sands projects in the province. The Oil Sands Developers Group also indicates that Koch is a tar sands project developer. Koch’s Corpus Christi refinery is positioned near the end of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline and would be a potential buyer for the tar sands crude shipped through the pipeline. In light of these reports, we asked our staff to contact Koch Industries to learn more about the company’s role in the Keystone XL pipeline and Canadian tar sands. Yesterday, our staff spoke with representatives of the company. In that conversation, the Koch representatives would not answer questions about Koch’s investments in Canadian tar sands.The Koch representatives said that the Keystone XL pipeline has “nothing to do with any of our businesses” and that Koch had “no financial interest” in the pipeline. They also stated that the company neither supports nor opposes the legislation we will be considering next week. However, Koch’s representatives refused to answer questions about Koch’s activities or interests in the Canadian tar sands. They refused to confirm or deny reports that the company is developing tar sand projects. They also refused to say whether Koch Industries owns – through a wholly owned subsidiary – a terminal involved in the tar sands business. There appears to be a significant discrepancy between the published reports that Koch Industries would be “big winners” if the pipeline is approved and the statement of the Koch representatives that the pipeline has “nothing to do” with Koch’s businesses. We do not presume that Koch’s representations are inaccurate. But we were dismayed by the company’s lack of candor in responding to staff’s questions and believe additional inquiry is warranted. For this reason, we respectfully request that the Committee request the following documents from the company:documents sufficient to show whether Koch Industries or any of its subsidiaries is involved in exporting oil derived from Canadian tar sands to the United States or has plans to export such oil through the Keystone XL pipeline;documents sufficient to show whether Koch Industries or any of its subsidiaries has investments in Canadian tar sands or has plans for such investments;documents sufficient to show whether Koch Industries or any of its subsidiaries is involved in producing oil from Canadian tar sands or has plans for such production; anddocuments sufficient to show whether Koch Industries or any of its subsidiaries refines oil derived from Canadian tar sands or has plans to refine such oil transported through the Keystone XL pipeline;Thank you for considering this request.Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Bobby L. RushRanking Member Ranking MemberSubcommittee on Energy and PowerReuters, Koch Brothers Positioned To Be Big Winners If Keystone XL Pipeline Is Approved (Feb. 10, 2011) (online at https://www.reuters.com/article/...).Id.Website, Flint Hill Resources, History (accessed on May 19, 2011)(online at https://www.fhr.com/about/history.aspx).Website, Flint Hill Resources, Canada (accessed on May 19, 2011)(online at https://www.fhr.com/refining/canada.aspx).Government of Alberta, Alberta's Oil Sands Projects and Upgraders (Jan. 2011).Oil Sands Developers Group, Oil Sands Project List (Jan. 2011).U.S. Department of State, Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement, Keystone XL Project, Applicant for Presidential Permit: TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, LP, 3-176 (Apr. 22, 2011). ###
05.13.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– As the summer season approaches and at a time when, last year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that more than half (51 percent) of the young people who were looking for summer jobs couldn’t find them, today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) proudly introduced comprehensive youth jobs legislation while asserting his strong belief in the value of investing in America’s future—its young people. The bill has eight original co-sponsors. Rush’s “SAY YEA” legislation would provide $6.5 billion dollars for youth employment while offering tax incentives for businesses that hire employees ages 16 to 21 years of age. It funds a national public service employment program that focuses on jobs in parks, education and rebuilding infrastructure. Rush views this legislation as a reasonable and responsible down payment on America’s future—millions of young people whose lives are full of promise but whose future productivity in the U.S. economy is heavily dependent on their ability to enter the workforce. “SAY YEA” is designed to help young people develop the ‘must have’ skills and work ethic needed to survive and, even, thrive in the 21st century workforce. “SAY YEA” also includes tax incentives for employers who hire disadvantaged youth. “My number one goal in seeking support for this legislation is to ensure that America puts its money where its heart should be—in its future, our youth—so that we don’t produce a generation who, due to lack of ever having a job, come to view that as a normal state of being. It isn’t a normal state of being! I refuse to sit idly by while we invest in all sorts of well financed sectors at a time when a new generation of young people—especially in low-income communities—are at risk for never, ever having a job. I believe our country is better than that and I will keep fighting to ensure that a youth jobs agenda is front and center in our national priorities.” The disappointing fact of the matter is that too many millions of youth are suffering due to lack of jobs and an education and training support network that’s focused on helping young people successfully access gateway opportunities into the work force. In August, 2009, the unemployment rate for Americans between the ages of 16 and 19 had reached a Depression-era level of 25.5 percent. That percentage, which translated into an estimated 1.5 million unemployed youth, was the highest level it had ever been in the 50-plus years that the U. S. Labor Department has been tracking those records. That unemployment needle has barely moved. For the month of April, 2011, the Labor Department reported that the same unemployment rate had moved downwards, but by only less than one percentage point. These numbers mean that 1 out of 4 young people are currently out of work. And, for African American and Hispanic American youth, in particular, those numbers may reach as high as 40 percent unemployment, meaning almost 1 out of 2 young people would not have jobs. Rush is helping to lead a “National Rally and March for Youth Investment” in Washington, D.C., on May 19, led by a coalition of Chicago-based and national youth and civil rights organizations. Young people from across the U.S. are expected to attend as they signal their intent to continue to press federal lawmakers to support H.R. 1901 and similar initiatives aimed at generating jobs and helping them succeed in the workforce. # # # NOTE: Posted below is a link to a pdf copy of the legislation as introduced with eight original co-sponsors. Also, please visit www.Thomas.gov to check for updates on the progress of this legislation.
05.10.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– "Good afternoon Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman. I will direct my remarks in the limited time I have to H.R. 5, the so-called "HEALTH" Act, which would roll back statutes of limitations in medical malpractice lawsuits to as little as one year, generally bar punitive damage awards, and set caps on non-economic damages of $250,000 and apply similar caps on punitive damages. "Let’s be clear. H.R. 5 does not protect patients. What it does do is toss hurdles and obstacles in the path of consumers who are seeking accountability and redress from medical and pharmaceutical services as well as goods providers who harm or rob them of a potentially healthier lifestyle."These harms and losses do not just stop with the patient. They also directly and adversely affect their families, employers and the economy. And, the fact that more Americans than ever before in this country’s history will have access to affordable health care due to what Democrats were able to deliver in the last Congress does not change the fact that medical professionals and device makers do make errors that carry grave consequences for patients and for their families who depend upon them, both economically and emotionally."Of the many offensive provisions to patients and other users of medical devices contained in H.R. 5, one of the most offensive can be found in Section 4 of the bill. Section 4 would arbitrarily limit non-economic damages associated with health care liability claims to $250,000 for the same injury, regardless of the number of defendants or claims that are in the case."Simply put to call this a "HEALTH" bill for consumers is a cruel hoax. Personally, I’d call it a YO-YO bill—as in "You’re on Your Own!"###
05.06.2011	CHICAGO – Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) joined state and local leaders at the festive dedication of the new, Lovana S. “Lou” Jones/Bronzeville Station at 35th and Federal on the South Side of Chicago. It was a joyous albeit bittersweet moment for Rush who, with his wife Carolyn Rush at his side, spoke movingly of his love and respect for his friend and political mentor, the late Lovana S. “Lou” Jones, an iconic state and local political figure who served as the 26th district State Representative in the Illinois General Assembly for nearly 20 years where she rose to the level of Assistant Majority Leader. She died in 2006."Lou was one of my dearest friends and mentors and she had a passion for people, for justice and for enriching the lives of children—especially poor and underserved youth. Her commitment to service and her love of life left a void in the hearts of those, like me, who knew and loved her dearly. Lou worked tirelessly to bring resources to her community here, on the South Side of Chicago, and I thank the leadership of Metra and other state and local leaders for dedicating this important transportation hub in honor of a true fighter for the people, especially the least among us,” said Rush who was instrumental in securing $4.9 million in federal funds to complete this project.With the opening of this station, today, soaring gasoline prices need not stop Chicago-area commuters who now have access to Sox Park, IIT, Bronzeville businesses, homes and schools via Metra’s New Lou Jones station. The new, state-of-the-art-facility, part of Metra’s Rock Island Line, was officially opened today in ceremonies that, in addition to Rush, featured Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley, the grandson of the late State Representative Lovana S. “Lou” Jones and the deLaSalle High School Band. The station, located at 35th and Federal on the south side of Chicago, offers a new mass transit alternative for White Sox fans traveling to the nearby U.S. Cellular Field, as well as Illinois Institute of Technology students, local workers and neighborhood residents. Trains began stopping at the new station on April 3.The new Metra station is the result of an almost two-decades-long effort by Congressman Rush who, in spite of political obstacles in Washington, D.C., never gave up on his vision for the revitalization of the Bronzeville neighborhood. He was able to obtain a $4.9 million federal grant, combined with $6.8 million in federal stimulus money to make the project happen.In further reflections on today’s event, Rush added, “Many Chicagoans have no idea about the rich history of the 35th and State Street Corridor. From roughly 1870 to 1930 the community was known as a ‘Black Wall Street.’ There were businesses and banks, restaurants and jazz clubs established by the descendants of slaves who came to Chicago from the segregated south in pursuit of a better life. They built it from the ground up. Oscar dePriest became the first African American Chicago alderman from this ward and he went on to become the first African American from the north elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. I stand on his shoulders.”The station is in direct proximity to Cellular Field on the west and the Illinois Institute of Technology on the east. It is within walking distance of deLaSalle High School and directly across the street from newly built, mixed-income housing constructed after the demolition of the Stateway Gardens Public Housing Complex. It is the first Metra Station built since 2006.Speakers at the ribbon-cutting ceremony included Rush, Illinois State Treasurer Dan Rutherford, Ald. Pat Dowell (3rd), Illinois Institute of Technology President John Anderson, Federal Transit Administration Deputy Regional Administrator Rhonda Reed and Bradford Walker, a brother of Jones. Metra leaders who spoke included Larry Huggins, vice chairman of the Metra Board of Directors, and Alex Clifford, Metra CEO.###NOTE: A few photos with highlights of today’s event are featured below.Rush addresses local residents, invited guests and elected officials at the Lovana S. “Lou” Jones/Bronzeville Station Dedication Ceremony on Friday, May 6, 2011. Looking on as Rush makes his remarks are (L – R) Rhonda Reed, Federal Transit Administration Deputy Regional Administrator; John Anderson, President, Illinois Institute of Technology; Alexander D. Clifford, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Metra; and Larry A. Huggins, Vice Chairman, Metra Board of Directors.Rep. Rush is interviewed by a local reporter after the dedication ceremony. Rush’s years of tenacious pursuit of federal resources for this project was recognized by Metra’s leadership in a plaque in his honor that is, likewise, permanently on display at the station. Rush’s role in bringing this project to life was described as follows in a Metra press release, “The station was funded with $4.9 million in federal money secured by Congressman Rush, a longtime supporter of the project, and an additional $6.8 million from the federal stimulus bill, known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Another plaque noting Congressman Rush’s key role in securing funding for the station was also unveiled today.”Joining Rush to mark the dedication of the Lovana S. “Lou” Jones/Bronzeville Station is her brother, Bradford Walker (center, holding a plaque in her honor) and Larry A. Huggins, Vice Chairman, Metra Board of Directors. The plaque, which is on permanent display at the station, reads, “Lou used her political power and grassroots insights to fight for those traditionally locked out of economic opportunity and trapped in poverty. Through her commitment, Lou worked endlessly on behalf of the indigent children, the formerly incarcerated, working-class families and the poor. She helped to remove barriers to education, employment and opportunity for people throughout Illinois.”NOTE: You can also read Metra's press release: New Louvana S. “Lou” Jones/Bronzeville Station is Officially Dedicated
05.05.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govWASHINGTON –– "Thank you for holding this hearing, Mr. Chairman, and thanks to all of our guests for being here today. "Today's hearing is timely, as prices at the pump climb to four dollars a gallon for regular gasoline."It is extremely important that this committee identifies short- and long-term strategies and objectives for developing alternative fuels for vehicles so five and ten years from now we won't be having the same debates over rising gas prices due to unrest in the Middle East."For far too long now, we have been seeing widely fluctuating gas prices here in this country due to a lack of a comprehensive policy to move us away from imported oil and petroleum."And every year or two we're back in the same exact place where we find ourselves today, discussing extremely high gas prices at the pump, but no closer to solving this issue, which has such a devastating effect on the budgets of low- and middle-income families, who must once again choose between putting food on the table or filling up their car in order to go to work."I look forward to today's hearing to discuss both the opportunities and challenges we face as we attempt to transition to alternative fuels to power our cars and trucks."Americans love their cars and we love to drive, so it only makes sense that we provide direction for the American people and move our country away from its heavy dependence on foreign sources of oil."As a Representative from the corn-growing state of Illinois, I look forward to learning more about the impact that corn ethanol has had on the alternative fuel debate."A few years ago, it was thought that relying solely on corn ethanol was a win-win alternative to diesel and petroleum fuels."Since that time, my office has met with several constituents and groups that have informed us of the impact of using corn ethanol for fuel, and its subsequent effect on increased prices for feed stock and the overall food supply."So I am very interested to hear from the experts here, today, on not only the impact of corn ethanol, but also the opportunities for additional alternative fuel sources for transportation including bio-fuels, electricity, natural gas, coal-to-liquids and others."I believe if we are prudent and we work together, on both sides of the aisle, we can develop a policy for alternative fuel production that would be to the benefit of all of our constituents and the American people as a whole."Mr. Chairman, I sincerely hope that this can be an issue that we can find common ground on and we can work together on for the good of the country."If we are willing to provide direction and funding to develop alternative fuel supplies, we can provide economical and practical benefits to Americans by decreasing the amount of oil we import while also, eventually, decreasing the price our families pay at the pump."However, we all understand that before we are able to enjoy the benefits that would ultimately come from alternative fuels, we must first invest in the research and development of these supplies."And even if we are able to come together on a comprehensive policy to develop these fuels, we must also invest in the infrastructure to support these fuels as well."So we have our work cut out for us, and I am pleased that today we take a first step in understanding where we are and what we need to do to move forward."I look forward to learning more on this issue from our esteemed witnesses, and with that I yield back the balance of my time."###
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, Chairman Jaczko, and all of the NRC commissioners for being here today."Although the devastating events that happened in Japan have been swept from the front pages in recent weeks, I can assure you that my constituents still have very real concerns regarding nuclear safety."With Illinois housing more nuclear reactors than any state in the country, my constituents want to be assured that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has in place common sense protocols for both mitigating risks of a nuclear disaster, as well as procedures to safeguard the public in the event that a disaster occurs."When I visited the Dresden Generating Station in Northern Illinois back in March, I learned that there were some very important distinctions in our nuclear safety protocols, as compared to Japan, but there were also some concerns raised that I look forward to addressing, here, today."I was pleased to learn that U.S. nuclear facilities have multiple backup systems in place, including in underground and offsite locations."However, I do have some concerns regarding the placement of NRC Resident Inspectors, and their closeness, in location and relationship, to the facility managers they are responsible for monitoring."While inspectors must have access to all key data and have the appropriate knowledge of the people running these facilities, I want to make sure that this familiarity does not lead to complacency or does not in any way cloud, their judgment, integrity or independence."Additionally, in Illinois there are remote monitoring systems in place, both inside and outside of plants, that can quickly identify irregularities and alert officials in real time, which I believe should be replicated throughout the U.S. "Another issue that will require a national solution is how and where we store the massive 72,000 tons of spent fuel rods that a recent AP report found are located at nuclear reactor facilities throughout the U.S."I am curious to get your expert opinions on whether storing these rods in wet pools or dry casks is the safer option for long term storage."And, should these rods be stored above ground or in secure underground casks to mitigate risks?"And, finally, I also believe we must develop a comprehensive, long term solution for storing these spent fuel rods, as well a plan to secure transportation of these rods when a location is identified."While I believe nuclear power must be a vital part of our country's overall energy portfolio, we must ensure that we have the best systems and practices in place to safeguard against an unforeseen nuclear accident and to prevent a widespread disaster like that which is still unfolding in Japan."My constituents in Illinois, as well as the broader American public, expect us to address these pressing issues."So, I look forward to discussing these issues more in depth with the commissioners during the questioning session."And with that I yield the balance of my time."###
05.04.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– On Friday, May 6, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and members of his Advisory Council on Asian Affairs will sponsor a Community Prayer Service to pray for the health and safety of those residents and disaster relief workers who, to this day, continue to put their lives on the line to staunch the flow of hazardous toxic gas that continues to flow from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Rush will be joined by the Consul General of Japan, George Hisaeda, Deputy Consul General Hironori Sawada and other local community leaders in a prayer vigil in remembrance of those who lost their lives in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that struck the nation of Japan.“While the headlines in the U.S. have decreased to focus on other major world events, the fact remains that men and women of good will are still struggling to rebuild their lives and the workers at the Fukushima plant are fighting an uphill battle to stop the flow of deadly toxins into the environment,” said Rush who, as Ranking Member of the Energy and Power subcommittee, continues to monitor the situation in Japan and is part of a deliberative process on Capitol Hill to help strengthen nuclear power plant safety standards in the U. S. “At a time such as this, the prayers of every person of good will can help make a difference. I look forward to standing with my brothers and sisters in the spirit to fervently pray for the health and healing of the people of Japan and a permanent solution to the ongoing disaster at the power plant. I invite those who believe in the power of prayer to join us next Friday evening.”This event will be held in the community room at the Japanese American Service Committee, 4427 N. Clark Street, on Friday, May 6, from 5:00 to 7:30 p.m. CST. This event is open to the public and the media are encouraged to attend.###NOTE: View promotional flyer with additional details
05.04.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson (773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobile Renee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov - or - Sharon Jenkins (202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobile Sharon.Jenkins@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush introduced his data privacy bill, H.R. 1707, legislation that he introduced in the last session of Congress. During today's hearing, Rush delivered the following statement. "We’ve known for several sessions of Congress that massive, mega-data breaches can and will occur. And we’ve had the vision to introduce legislation to make these breaches more difficult to perpetrate while also ensuring that consumers can return to as close to whole as possible after they piece back together their personal lives and identities after their private information falls into the hands of intruders, hackers and illegal resellers. "Today, I plan to reintroduce the Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA). I am happy to say that I am being joined by Congressman Joe Barton from Texas and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky from Illinois, who will join me as original co-sponsors. The DATA Act is the same bill that I introduced and was able to get passed out of this Committee, with bipartisan support, in December, 2009 in the 111th Congress. H.R. 2221 passed out of the House on suspension and was then referred to the Senate Commerce Committee. "When I became chair of the House subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection in the 110th Congress, I introduced H.R. 958, which I have strengthened and shaped since then to keep up with online and network technologies and emerging formats for storing consumer data. These technologies and formats improve consumers’ lives and make new and exciting business and revenue models viable. "But, it has also been important in my legislative and policy approaches to remain technologically neutral, so that we don’t pick winners and losers. We have also endeavored to better understand the unique natures of the business models and realities involving what the bill defines as "service providers," "information brokers" and "fraud databases" so as not to cause unintended consequences or to unreasonably disrupt the free flow of interstate commerce. "Additionally, the DATA bill would allow for delays of up to 30 days—or indefinitely—before security breach notifications must be given to individuals in instances where a Federal, state, or local law enforcement agency, or a federal security or homeland security agency, says in writing that doing so would impede a criminal or civil investigation or threaten national security." ### NOTE: Here’s a link to the legislation as posted on www.Thomas.gov:https://www.congress.gov/bill/112th-congress/house-bill/1707/text
05.01.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D - IL) congratulated President Obama tonight on the capture and death of Al Qaeda leader, Osama Bin Laden. In a statement issued shortly after the President’s announcement, Congressman Rush said the following:"I would like to congratulate our Commander-in-Chief and the brave members of our nation’s counter-terrorism teams on this tremendous accomplishment. This is an enormous victory for the American people and for those who love freedom, justice and equality throughout the world. This is an especially significant moment for the families of those lost in the 9/11 terrorist attacks and for our brave men and women who have fought, been injured and died to keep our homeland safe."While the fight has not ended, Bin Laden’s death is an important demonstration of the will and steadfast determination of the American people. I join President Obama in calling for unity as we are reminded, in this moment, that there is more that unites us than divides us."###
04.27.2011	CONTACT: Renee Ferguson(773) 224-6500 ofc.; (202) 674-0891 mobileRenee.Ferguson@mail.house.gov- or -Sharon Jenkins(202) 225-4372 ofc.; (202) 431-8191 mobileSharon.Jenkins@mail.house.govCHICAGO –– In response to the news announced yesterday by the Sony Corporation that the confidential privacy information of millions of its users of the PlayStation Network, an online game and service used by approximately 77 million consumers worldwide, had been breached by what Sony described as an "illegal intrusion," U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today released the following statement."Data security, privacy and sound records management policies and practices are different stripes on the same tiger. If that tiger is toothless or is unfamiliar with its habitat, it isn't a matter of whether but when will consumers' privacy be abused and personal information compromised. I have several concerns surrounding the disturbing news announced by Sony, late yesterday, about what they describe as an "illegal intrusion" they discovered on April 19. The timing between their discovery of the data security breach and their alerting its 77 million users of their PlayStation Network a week later is, itself, disturbing."I will soon re-introduce data security legislation in this Congress that substantially resembles H.R. 2221, a bi-partisan bill I introduced in the last Congress that was advanced to the Senate. Violations of consumer privacy is no respecter of party affiliation and, with all that is at stake, I continue to call upon the House Republican leadership to hold legislative hearings, immediately, on privacy and data security legislation. It is my hope that industry and consumer advocates will engage with this Congress so that we can craft a strong, bipartisan bill that prevents these potentially damaging outcomes and reasonably mitigates foreseeable threats against consumers' sensitive, personal and confidential information."Sony touts its PlayStation platform's real-time and networking capabilities to consumers. The laws of this country should call, similarly, for consumers to be notified in as close to real-time as possible—not according to Sony time—whenever their sensitive information falls into the hands of intruders, hackers, thieves and information resellers."In the 111th Congress, Rush introduced H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act ("DATA"), a bill that addresses data breaches by requiring "for-profit" entities holding data containing consumers' personal information to have reasonable and appropriate security measures in place to protect that data. H.R. 2221 would also require them to notify consumers, who are U.S. citizens or residents and the Federal Trade Commission when a breach occurs. Rush's bill was advanced to the U. S. Senate in December, 2009.###
04.21.2011	Rush celebrated among a prestigious group of leading African Americans for his lifelong support of environmental justice and progressive energy policiesWASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) was recognized, this week, by the Hip Hop Caucus as part of an iconic group of leading African American political activists, entertainers, elected officials, scientists and environmental activists whose life work has included a respect for our planet, our environment and helping to keep it clean and safe for current and future generations. Tomorrow, on Earth Day, the Hip Hop Caucus's "One Planet. One Voice." campaign is leading an unprecedented level of activities led by youth and grassroots activists across the nation including their recognition of the "350 for Earth Day" list of iconic African American leaders. Rush's lifelong commitment to protecting the environment and fighting for environmental justice for African Americans and low-income communities of color was recognized along with a diverse array of leading men and women including Dr. Cornel West, Ambassador Susan Rice, director Spike Lee and Xerox CEO Ursula Burns. In announcing the Hip Hop Caucus' "350 for Earth Day" honorees, the President and CEO of the Hip Hop Caucus, Rev. Lennox Yearwood, Jr. said, "Communities of color are often overlooked by traditional environmental campaigns, yet the studies show that we are amongst the most adversely affected by pollution and climate change. This Earth Day we are standing up as good stewards of the earth because this is about the health of our families and future generations."From the "350 for Earth Day" site, Hip Hop Caucus supporters and other visitors will be able to organize and promote education and awareness events nationwide. These combined activities will comprise the largest Earth Day mobilization within the African American community in the 41-year history of this international day of observance marking the need to protect the environment. In accepting this distinguished recognition, Rush, who serves as the Ranking Member of the Energy and Power subcommittee and who, earlier today, testified before the Chicago City Council in support of Chicago's proposed Clean Power Ordinance said this, "I am deeply humbled by the honor that Rev. Yearwood and the leadership of the Hip Hop Caucus has bestowed upon me and others surrounding tomorrow's Earth Day commemoration and the massive grassroots effort that's underway to focus national attention on the need to protect the environment. Minority communities are impacted negatively and disproportionately as compared to non-minority communities. These communities often bear the brunt of hazardous air and water quality that results from the unlawful, concentrated dumping of toxic substances in those communities. These circumstances are made worse by proposals from the extremist right to heavily cut spending on low-income household energy and efficiency programs."It is unfair for minority communities and households to have to bear the burden of the costs of sickness and blighted neighborhoods in these so-called "hot spots" and "brownfields." The inhabitants of these communities––some for several generations––have watched the dollars tied to pollution and dirty dumping leave our communities more quickly than the sickening fumes and gases they leave behind that pollute our communities' air and water. As I have since the days of my youth, I will remain at the forefront of this fight to battle these assaults on the public health, safety and welfare of minority communities and households."The "Right to Breathe" is a central part of the Hip Hop Caucus call to action with environmental partner Earthjustice. This year's major Earth Day mobilization will raise the voice of the African American community in support of a simple bottom line—the right for everyone to breathe healthy air.Here's a link to all of the honorees in this year's "350 for Earth Day" list. To quickly find Rush's profile, click on the "Law and Politics" link at the top of the page and Rush is on the third row with First Lady Michelle Obama, National Urban League CEO Marc Morial and other iconic leaders:https://www.hiphopcaucus.org/earthday/###
04.21.2011	CHICAGO –– Good morning Chairmen Rugai and Balcer and Members of the Committees.I am elated to be here with you, this morning, having been afforded this opportunity to testify at your joint committee hearing in support of the Clean Power Ordinance. I would especially like to commend Alderman Joe Moore, of the 49th Ward, for introducing this ordinance last April.As a former Chicago City Council member representing the 2nd ward on Chicago’s south side for eight years, as a former Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Environmental Protection and, now, as the leading Democrat and Ranking Member on the U.S. House Subcommittee on Energy and Power, I can appreciate the magnitude, the significance, and the importance of this ordinance.Today I am noting the critical support of 26 aldermen and almost 60 local coalition partners who refuse to stand on the sidelines while thousands of vulnerable young people, adults, and seniors struggle to breathe comfortably but cannot due to their proximity to the Fisk and Crawford power plants. I am proud to stand with these men, women, and prominent organizations of Chicago, who are taking affirmative steps to rid our precious communities and neighborhoods of irritating, damaging and costly air pollutants.Here is the problem. Chicago is the only major U.S. city having two coal-burning power plants operating within city confines. Each of these plants in Fisk and Crawford is over 100 years old. To make matters worse, these old coal-fired plants depend on 50-year old boilers that lack modern pollution controls. Because the predominant fossil fuel source for electric generation in our country, coal, is responsible for 80 percent of the carbon dioxide that electric utilities release, such pollution controls are essential and integral to a cleaner, safer and more life-sustaining environment.I have seen first-hand the negative impacts that these power plants are having on the health of Chicagoans. My district, the 1st Congressional District, is directly adjacent to these plants, in southwest Chicago. And the constituents in my district, who have to breathe in this pollution, suffer some of the most negative impacts with regard to their health and lost productivity outcomes in the city of Chicago.There are abnormally high rates of asthma in my district in comparison to Illinois’ general asthma rates. For example, in parts of West Inglewood, over 30 percent of the residents suffer from asthma. This compares much less favorably to statewide figures for Illinois asthma cases, compiled in 2008, by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP). The CDCP reported in 2008 that 13 percent of Illinois adults had been diagnosed with asthma and that close to 8.5 percent of Illinois children had been similarly diagnosed.These rates of asthma are so out of whack that they merit immediate scrutiny and action. By moving the Clean Ordinance along to passage, Chicago can solve its own problems, and not wait for the State or for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency toadopt and enforce greenhouse gas and other air-quality regulations.Recently, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed a number of new regulations to reduce the amounts of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, and other toxic agents that power plants emit. Notwithstanding these well-intended proposals, I am all but too familiar with the battle which is currently being fought in Washington to strip the EPA of its Clean Air Act authority in protecting our public health and environmental safety. And, I am aware, notwithstanding a pending U.S. government enforcement action taken against the Fisk and Crawford plants for alleged violations under the Clean Air Act, that that proceeding has moved far too slowly.It is time for the Chicago City Council to step up and to act now!If the Federal Government or the State of Illinois will not act or is reluctant to act, then the Council must fill those gaps of inaction and remedy a serious problem that is only bound to get worse.Chicago can be and should be not just a responder, but a first responder to these local health problems that have been caused by these two, old and highly polluting power plants.Thank you for the time, Committee Chairmen, that you have allotted to me. All things considered, Chicago does not have a choice except to act, and to act decisively. I am confident that Chicago is up to this task.In closing, I respectfully urge you to support and vote for the Chicago Clean Power Ordinance.###
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON –– I could not, in good conscience, support a budget measure that funds the federal government for the duration of the current fiscal year that does so at the expense of low-income Americans and senior citizens while asking for no sacrifice, whatsoever, from millionaires and billionaires. My vote, therefore, was a resounding ‘NO’!Today, my House Republican colleagues made their fiscal values and priorities very clear. They are for tax breaks for millionaires, billionaires and special interests. They support corporate loopholes that permit some companies to greatly reduce their tax liabilities and that give them incentives to send jobs overseas to non-American workers. Other than my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and other progressive organizations who have proposed budget alternatives that strengthen the middle-class, uplift lower-income people and households and respect our nation’s decades-long social contract to provide some measure of relief for the least and the left out in our country, I hear few if any voices talking about the needs of low-income Americans. Low-income Americans and senior citizens did not drag our country into this financial ditch and they should not be called upon by even one iota to make things easier for the well-to-do who work on Wall Street and live on Easy Street.I will continue to work with my House colleagues, the President and others to craft a federal budget that respects the needs of all Americans without unduly benefitting one class of American over another. I embrace many of the provisions offered in the Alternative Budget for Fiscal Year 2012 that my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus have offered.That budget calls for $2 billion in much needed investments in education and job training programs; it provides $16 billion for H.R. 589, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act and it provides much needed funding relief for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program—a program I have fought for throughout my career.When the time comes that I can vote on a budget that calls on those Americans to sacrifice who can afford to do so, that will be the time that I’ll cast my vote in the affirmative.###NOTE: See voting record on H. Con Res. 34 as posted on Thomas.gov.
04.15.2011	Hearing: Recent EPA Rulemakings Relating to Boilers, Cement Manufacturing Plants and UtilitiesWASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of the guests attending today's hearing."Today we will hear testimony from a variety of stakeholders on proposed or finalized EPA rules regarding new, maximum achievable control technology (MACT) and other standards for power plants, cement facilities, boilers and incinerators."Section 112 of the Clean Air Act mandates that the EPA establish technology-based standards to reduce hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) that may contribute to increased cases of cancer, birth defects and other harmful health defects and adverse environmental impacts."Mr. Chairman, we all understand that the EPA is required by law, under the Clean Air Act, to issue each of these rules on a specified schedule, and all of these standards were actually mandated to be completed by the year 2000."Additionally, we all know that facilities will have an additional three and, in some cases, up to four years to comply with these rules once they are finalized if state or federal authorities determine that additional time is necessary to install pollution controls."Now, I'm not a math major, Mr. Chairman, but it would seem to me that if these rules were supposed to be issued back in 2000, and we are now in the year 2011, and facilities will still have up to three to four years to install these controls once they are finalized, then plant operators will have an almost 15 year delay in meeting these standards even if all of these rules were finalized today."Today, we will hear contrasting testimony by industry stakeholders on how compliance with these rules will impact energy rates and reliability, jobs and the overall economy."For instance, those utility companies that have been proactive in preparing for these rules, which everyone understood were coming, will testify on how these rules are balanced and reasonable, that the EPA has engaged the industry in a transparent manner, and that they will have no problem meeting these standards because they have already invested in these control technologies."These forward-thinking companies will also testify that implementing these pollution control technologies can, indeed, advance economic growth, inspire innovation and competiveness, and actually create good well-paying jobs through the installation of scrubbers, air quality control systems and other pollution control equipment."In addition to these economic benefits, we will also hear about some of the health and environmental benefits that compliance with these rules will bring."Specifically, just the reduction in mercury and particulate matter, alone, will lead to significant and tangible health benefits, including the prevention of thousands of premature deaths, nonfatal heart attacks, chronic bronchitis and aggravated asthma cases."Of course, we will also hear the other side of this story as well. Naturally, those companies that have been less active in planning and investing in pollution control technologies over the years will testify that they are unprepared for compliance and will request additional time to do so."Since there is no legislation up for debate today, I will reserve judgment on the merits of pushing these rules down the road for future action, once again, and I look forward to today's testimony and questions for all of dour witnesses."With that I yield back my time."###
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON –– "It is with a heavy heart that I extend my sincere condolences to my friend and former House colleague, Jane Harman, upon learning of the death of her beloved husband and life partner, Sidney Harman, whose life came to an end last night with his wife and children at his side."Sidney Harman left an indelible mark on the fabric of our nation on many fronts especially in the media. In 1953, he co-founded a firm that, today, is called Harman International Industries, a leading manufacturer of high-end audio components. Despite his success, in 1976, Harman responded to a call to serve his country by selling his profitable company to serve as a Deputy Secretary of Commerce under President Jimmy Carter. Ultimately it was his love of entrepreneurship and the continued market and technological advances in the media that led him to repurchase his company, in 1980, where he proceeded to lead it to great success until 2008 when he chose to step down."Sidney Harman left an incredible legacy of leadership in our country in areas as diverse as the arts, philanthropy and so much more. Last year, he even helped to prevent the demise of Newsweek once its former owner, the Washington Post, decided to cut it loose after significant losses."I extend my sincere condolences to my friend, former U. S. Rep. Jane Harman, to the Harman family, Sidney Harman's friends and business associates. I pray God's peace and comfort upon the Harman family during this time of great loss."###
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON –– Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of our guests for being here today.Mr. Chairman, today we will hear testimony regarding the discussion draft of the so-called “Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 2011,” which would amend Section 328 of the Clean Air Act that addresses air pollution from Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) drilling activities.While I have some reservations about the bill as written, my biggest concern with today’s hearing is that we will not have the opportunity to hear from representatives from the Environmental Protection Agency, as I am told they were not given sufficient advance notice in order to appear before us today.I find it very troubling that we are here to discuss amending sections of the Clean Air Act without the benefit of having the EPA’s expertise to help guide and inform our decisions.As you know, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Waxman and I wrote a letter to you and Chairman Upton on Friday asking you to postpone this hearing until we could have the appropriate representatives from EPA testify before us. I am disappointed that this reasonable request could not be met since this bill would make significant changes to Clean Air Act rules that the EPA is in charge of implementing.I only hope that as this discussion draft moves through the legislative process, we will get a chance to hear from the EPA, directly, at any future hearings scheduled on this bill in order to help inform the final product.As far as the discussion draft itself, one of my concerns deals with expediting the permitting process, which may limit the opportunities for review and public input.While I am not necessarily against streamlining the permitting process, in general, I want to make sure we are giving local communities adequate time to comment on proposed permits before they are enacted.Another concern deals with shifting the judicial review away from the Environmental Appeals Board, which has almost 20 years of experience in the highly technical area of Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD permits, and moving the process to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals, which lacks this technical expertise.Requiring local stakeholders to travel all the way to Washington, DC, in order raise concerns about local air quality impacts could prove to be overly costly and burdensome, if not outright impossible for less well-to-do communities.Finally, I look forward to hearing more discussion regarding the application of emissions control requirements under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, program of the Clean Air Act.Under the proposed legislation, support vessels, such as ice breakers and oil spill response vessels, which may contribute a majority of the air pollution associated with drilling activities, would not be subject to the best available control technology emission reduction requirements, or other requirements, adopted under the PSD program.I would like a better understanding of how this would impact air quality for local communities.So I look forward to hearing from all of our guests, today, in order to get a better understanding of how this proposed legislation would impact local stakeholders, as well as how it would benefit oil and gas companies conducting the drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf.With that I yield back my time.
04.12.2011	Rush calls Senate bill a welcome introduction of legislation to protect consumer privacy,an issue that registers with the vast majority of all Americans that rises high above partisan discord.WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed his support for the introduction of a comprehensive consumer privacy bill that his counterparts in the United States Senate—John Kerry and John McCain—introduced at a press event in the nation's capitol. Senators Kerry, a Democrat, and McCain, a Republican, introduced the Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights Act of 2011, the first Senate bill of its kind that seeks to establish a framework for protecting personal consumer information, whether that information is collected through online or offline means and sources.To date, Rush is the only House member to have introduced comprehensive consumer privacy legislation. Rush first introduced his BEST PRACTICES Act in the 111th Congress when he served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. In February of this year, Rush introduced H.R. 611, a bill that closely mirrors the landmark BEST PRACTICES Act. BEST PRACTICES is an acronym for "Building Effective Strategies to Promote Responsibility Accountability Choice Transparency Innovation Consumer Expectations and Safeguards."In praising the leadership displayed, today, by Senators Kerry and McCain, Rush said this, "I commend Senators Kerry and McCain for their bipartisan leadership in drafting comprehensive legislation that rises above partisan discord. Consumer privacy is too important to be hijacked by national political party agendas and twisted beyond recognition into meaningless rhetoric or just a ‘statement' piece of legislation. We will work to ensure that these bills are given hearings and moved forward through our respective legislative committee processes."Shortly before I reintroduced my legislation in February, a large number of credible consumer and privacy advocacy organizations, leading businesses, advertising, Web 2.0 and 3.0, cloud computing and consumer reporting firms reached out to me and my staff to either reinforce or to make their views known on whether privacy legislation is warranted; and, if so, what it ought and ought not to contain. While the House and Senate bills may take differing approaches and even disagree on resolving common privacy problems, there is no disagreement on the need to give privacy the imprimatur of law that is warranted. Without common-sense privacy laws and rules that operate consistently with consumers' expectations of privacy, consumers will lose trust in online and offline commerce, including innovative business and advertising models that rely heavily on sharing and disclosing consumers' personal information."BEST PRACTICES was the subject of a legislative hearing in the last session of Congress. The legislation I introduced last year was endorsed by a coalition of consumer groups and the same, three leading Internet services and by software companies who, today, also expressed their support for the Kerry-McCain legislation. I will do my part to foster further discussions and considerations of both bills among all interested parties and stakeholders. I'll continue to work diligently to ensure the passage of legislation that is based on a sound understanding of the relevant offline and online ecosystems at work, today, but that can bend to evolutionary developments and still meet consumers' needs without breaking."NOTE: Here's a link to H.R. 611 as posted on Thomas.gov:https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/D?d112:1:./temp/~bdqqHH::|/home/LegislativeData.php?n=BSS;c=112|###
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON –– Not since the Republicans last ran Congress in 1995 and 1996, has our nation faced the prospect of the complete shutdown of the federal government. At a time when the American people are relying on its elected leadership to foster job creation and help strengthen families’ economic security, irresponsible leadership in the national Republican Party is doing exactly the opposite.I am particularly concerned about the often maligned, yet very dedicated federal employees and their families who will needlessly bear the economic brunt of certain misguided House Republicans who seek to bring the federal government to a halt. According to data compiled by the National Treasury Employees Union, my congressional district is home to over 10,000 federal employees—the second largest of the 19 congressional districts in Illinois—and I am determined to fight to protect their jobs.This potential government shutdown would be disastrous for our nation. It would disrupt the lives of millions of Americans while slamming the brakes on our recovery from the recession. For example, while Social Security checks are expected to continue to be mailed in the event of a shutdown, new Social Security applications will likely go unprocessed. I and my staff will continue to aggressively work to minimize the impact of a government shutdown on my constituents and, indeed, the nation. I call upon the Republican leadership in Congress to work with the White House and Democrats in Congress to keep this nation’s economic recovery moving forward.###
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Mr. Speaker, I oppose H.R. 910, the Upton-Inhofe Dirty Air Act, because this bill is an extreme and excessive piece of legislation and it is simply bad public policy. "This bill would ignore the warnings from the respected scientific community simply because policymakers do not like what that science is telling us, and it would place earnings and profits above protecting the public health. "Mr. Speaker, H.R. 910 would prohibit the very agency that is responsible for protecting our air, the Environmental Protection Agency, from doing the job that it was established to do. "I applaud the Obama Administration for making a clear and unequivocal statement yesterday that the President would veto this bill if it ever were to make it to his desk. "Mr. Speaker, every respected and notable scientific organization, including the National Academy of Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Geophysical Union, the American Meteorological Society, the U.S. Global Change Research Program, as well as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, are all in agreement that man-made greenhouse gases do contribute to climate change, and these impacts can be mitigated through policy to curb these emissions. "Additionally, many of the nation’s top public health advocacy groups, including the American Lung Association and the American Public Health Association, have come out strongly against this bill saying that it would leave our most vulnerable communities unprotected if this bill were to become law. "Civil rights advocacy groups like the NAACP and the Environmental Law and Poverty Center have also weighed in, urging Congress to listen to the science and stand on the side of American children and families, rather than business interests, to protect the public health. "Mr. Speaker, while I understand that many of my Republican colleagues are adamantly against any type of regulation or constraints on business, I have stood firmly against repealing the EPA’s ability to regulate greenhouse gases, first in my Energy and Power subcommittee, then in the full Energy and Commerce committee, and now here on the floor of the House. "I strongly oppose this bill, not because I am against business making a profit, but because the experts who study the science behind climate change tell us that greenhouse gases contribute greatly to it, and passing this bill would have very negative consequences for the public’s health. "As this USA Today poster here highlights, there are so many more benefits in acting to address climate change, as the science tells us we must do—including energy independence, sustainability, cleaner air and water, and a healthier populace, to name a few—than living with the status quo and hoping beyond hope that the majority of the world’s scientists are just plain wrong. "And so, Mr. Speaker, I am opposed to this bill because the science compels me to be, and I urge all of my colleagues to oppose this bill as well. "With that I yield back my time." ###
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush joined his Democratic colleagues and a diverse array of public interest organizations in voicing his strong opposition to H.J. Res 37, a resolution disapproving the Federal Communications Commission's December 21, 2010 Open Internet Order. In the statement that follows, Rush expresses his objection to this hastily advanced resolution that seeks to undermine a fundamental part of our nation's embrace of a free, open and accessible Internet for all consumers. "It's unfortunate that my Republican colleagues are so fiercely opposed to a free and open Internet that they're actually unwilling to give dissenting voices the opportunity to be heard," said Rush who's a senior member of the Communications and Technology Committee. "The fact is that businesses and investors engage the Internet not just because of the prospect for continued innovation but also because of their reliance on an atmosphere of regulatory stability that will allow them to invest with confidence in the level of risk they're taking based on the market climate they will encounter. When I offered an amendment to this resolution that would have authorized the FCC to prohibit wireless service carriers from discriminating among Internet service content providers and network devices, or to degrade Internet traffic in markets where there is not an adequate amount of competition, the Republican majority used arcane procedures to reject my amendment and scores of other Democratic-sponsored amendments. "Not only is the Republican leadership stifling dissent by preventing Democratic voices from being heard through a transparent amendment process but in their haste to make political points against the FCC and the Obama Administration, H. J. Res. 37 actually creates uncertainty in a marketplace that demands it. I urge my colleagues to reconsider this ill-conceived measure." # # # NOTE: Here's a link to the Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats' letter to the Republican leadership in opposition to H.J. Res 37. It includes a link to assorted letters of support.https://democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?q=news/democratic-committee-members-unite-in-opposition-to-open-internet-disapproval-resolution ###
04.04.2011	WASHINGTON –– Earlier this afternoon, in an unprecedented show of support, the three leading Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee—Ranking Member Henry Waxman, Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Rush and Chairman Emeritus John Dingell—sent a letter where they and 152 House members urged House Speaker John Boehner to support the Clean Air Act. In their letter, these leaders point out that this landmark legislation has always enjoyed strong bipartisan support—when it was first enacted in 1970 and, again, in 1990 when it was significantly amended. In both instances, the Clean Air Act gained support on both policy and scientific merits. In part, their letter to Speaker Boehner said this, "We worked across party lines to enact a law that would protect public health and the environment, as well as our economy. We were successful. Since 1970, the Clean Air Act has reduced key air pollutants by 60 percent while, at the same time, the economy grew by over 200 percent. Air pollution is costly. It increases asthma attacks, heart attacks, strokes, respiratory diseases and lung cancer, and causes premature deaths, hurting our families and burdening our economy. Congress has consistently rejected efforts to weaken the Clean Air Act and must do so again." Rush added that he is particularly concerned about efforts to undermine the Act because of the disparate impact of airborne carcinogens on low-income and minority children in our country. In 2007, community health centers reported that 20 percent of their pediatric patients had asthma. In addition, compared to white non-Hispanic children, asthma is 60 percent higher among African American children and nearly 300 percent higher among Puerto Rican children. Rush added, "My bottom line is that this legislation is not only good policy but, in many respects, it helps save lives. Surely bipartisan commonsense should prevail when the public's health, especially vulnerable children, is at stake." NOTE: A pdf copy of the letter is attached. And here's a link to a printed list of the 155 House Democrats who signed the letter.https://democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?q=news/house-democrats-oppose-efforts-to-dismantle-clean-air-act ###
04.04.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, Chairman Jaczko, and all of the NRC commissioners for being here today."Although the devastating events that happened in Japan have been swept from the front pages in recent weeks, I can assure you that my constituents still have very real concerns regarding nuclear safety."With Illinois housing more nuclear reactors than any state in the country, my constituents want to be assured that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has in place common sense protocols for both mitigating risks of a nuclear disaster, as well as procedures to safeguard the public in the event that a disaster occurs."When I visited the Dresden Generating Station in Northern Illinois back in March, I learned that there were some very important distinctions in our nuclear safety protocols, as compared to Japan, but there were also some concerns raised that I look forward to addressing, here, today."I was pleased to learn that U.S. nuclear facilities have multiple backup systems in place, including in underground and offsite locations."However, I do have some concerns regarding the placement of NRC Resident Inspectors, and their closeness, in location and relationship, to the facility managers they are responsible for monitoring."While inspectors must have access to all key data and have the appropriate knowledge of the people running these facilities, I want to make sure that this familiarity does not lead to complacency or does not in any way cloud, their judgment, integrity or independence."Additionally, in Illinois there are remote monitoring systems in place, both inside and outside of plants, that can quickly identify irregularities and alert officials in real time, which I believe should be replicated throughout the U.S. "Another issue that will require a national solution is how and where we store the massive 72,000 tons of spent fuel rods that a recent AP report found are located at nuclear reactor facilities throughout the U.S."I am curious to get your expert opinions on whether storing these rods in wet pools or dry casks is the safer option for long term storage."And, should these rods be stored above ground or in secure underground casks to mitigate risks?"And, finally, I also believe we must develop a comprehensive, long term solution for storing these spent fuel rods, as well a plan to secure transportation of these rods when a location is identified."While I believe nuclear power must be a vital part of our country's overall energy portfolio, we must ensure that we have the best systems and practices in place to safeguard against an unforeseen nuclear accident and to prevent a widespread disaster like that which is still unfolding in Japan."My constituents in Illinois, as well as the broader American public, expect us to address these pressing issues."So, I look forward to discussing these issues more in depth with the commissioners during the questioning session."And with that I yield the balance of my time."###
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I would also like to thank all of the panelists for being here today.“Mr. Chairman, today’s hearing is entitled “The American Energy Initiative” but, ironically, earlier this week my colleagues on the other side of the aisle voted tohandcuff one of the agencies that has helped move America forward by promoting energy conservation and making our vehicles, appliances, buildings, and power plants more energy efficient.“Over the past four decades the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has been at the forefront of promoting better gas mileage for cars and trucks and saving American families millions of dollars at the pump, while also making us less dependent on foreign oil.“However, instead of offering any real solutions or plans that would even remotely resemble an energy initiative, the Upton-Inhofe bill that my Republican colleagues just passed through the committee would actually increase our reliance on fossil fuels, both imported and domestic, which is great for the oil companies but not so great for American families.“I am actually not opposed to domestic oil production, including drilling in the Gulf, as long as I am convinced that the devastating oil spill that we witnessed last year with BP’s Macondo well cannot and will not be repeated.“While I understand that there are no guarantees in this business, I do know that the risks that BP took can and should be mitigated.“I, therefore, believe the course of action that President Obama and his Administration took after the BP oil spill was prudent and necessary.“After witnessing the explosion that claimed 11 lives and watching over four million barrels of oil gush into the Gulf for months without end, I believe it was reasonable and wise to halt drilling until we better understood what happened, why it happened, and how we could better prepare so that it would never happen again.“And when President Obama lifted the moratorium last October, I also agreed with Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar’s assessment that drilling could resume. And, he offered this caveat, and I’m quoting him here, “…provided that operators certify compliance with all existing rules and requirements…and demonstrate the availability of adequate blowout containment resources.”“For me and my constituents, the anguish and grief of helplessly watching oil gush into the Gulf for months on end while BP, the federal government, and every other entity remained powerless to stop it has not faded from memory—certainly not my memory.“Yet, I also understand that just as thousands of jobs and livelihoods were impacted, and continue to be impacted, by the oil spill last year, there are also repercussions on U.S. jobs and our nation’s energy supply by not allowing drilling to continue in the Gulf.“So, today, my hope is to gain an even better understanding of where we are now, nearly a year later from the initial explosion and oil spill, and to find out what improvements have been made with respect to safeguarding against the same type of event from ever happening again.“Additionally, I look forward to hearing from all of our witnesses on how their lives and livelihoods have been impacted and their thoughts on how we can move forward today.“So I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing and I look forward to hearing from our invited guests.“With that I yield back my time.”###
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed his sincere condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of James (‘Jim’) Tyree who died of complications from cancer, yesterday, with his family at his side. “Jim Tyree was a quintessential Chicagoan, a kid from a working class background who excelled in sports, studied hard and understood the value of hard work and its transformative value in the lives of the people of Chicago that he loved so much,” said Rush who was an admirer of Jim’s tenacity and ability to fight his way through previous health challenges and to leave a permanent mark in journalism and education in the city he loved so much. “I think the best tribute anyone can say of those whose life on earth comes to an end is to look at the quality of life they lived and the transformed lives they leave behind. Jim Tyree leaves a legacy that extends to thousands of young people who attend Chicago’s City Colleges as not only did he study there but after he’d built a successful career in the private sector, he served 10 years as the Chairman of the City Colleges system. As Chairman, Jim worked tirelessly to ensure that the quality of education those students received matched or exceeded his own. He also provided the financial resources that pulled the Chicago Sun-Times back from the financial brink. In doing so, he helped ensure that a city the size and importance of Chicago could have a competitive print media market. Jim did all of this while being a devoted husband to his wife, Eve, and father to his three children, Jessica and his twin sons, Matthew and Joseph. “Chicago lost a great human being, yesterday, and my wife, Carolyn, and I extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Eve, their three children, and the grateful city he leaves behind.” ###
03.14.2011	WASHINGTON –– Like the rest of the world, since Friday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) has kept a close eye on the events in the nation of Japan in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck its northeastern coast on Friday. In addition to offering his prayers and support for the victims and survivors of the epic 8.9 magnitude earthquake, Rush has also kept abreast of the U.S.-led response organized by the Obama Administration, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and international relief organizations. As the news on the ground continues to unfold, with a death toll that’s already upwards of 2,000, news reports indicate that a nuclear energy crisis is emerging. Today, onsite emergency relief personnel report that four out of five pumps being used to flood the Unit 2 reactor at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex have failed. That situation, combined with other problems at the site, raise the specter of the threat of the meltdown of nuclear fuel rods and the prospect of a nuclear catastrophe on a level that could eclipse the partial nuclear reactor meltdown at Three Mile Island, in Pennsylvania, in 1979.In response to one of the largest earthquakes in world history as well as the growing threat of nuclear fallout, Rush, who is the Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, today released the following statement:"First, I want to extend my heartfelt condolences to the people of Japan who, right now, are struggling to survive and regroup in the aftermath of Friday’s devastating earthquake and tsunami. The loss of human life in the aftermath of a natural disaster on this scale is often hard to grasp and I want the people of Japan, their families and loved ones—in the U.S. and abroad—to know that I stand in earnest, fervent prayer for the lives of those who were lost, for those who are struggling to survive and for the safety and security of the first responders. I am pleased to see the rapid response and engagement of the Obama Administration, U. S. military personnel and USAID who, right now, are doing everything humanly possible to make a difference in that tragic situation."At the same time, duty compels me to respond to the ongoing crisis surrounding the stability, or lack thereof, of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex and the implications of what’s taking place, there, with respect to nuclear energy policy in the United States."The U.S. government is prepared to offer technical expertise, as well as any other type of assistance that the Japanese government requests as they deal with this ongoing situation. Currently, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, in coordination with the Department of Energy and other federal agencies, has sent two boiling-water reactor experts to Japan as part of a USAID team."As the Ranking Member on the Energy and Power Subcommittee, I want to assure my constituents and all Americans that I will continue to monitor the situation. I have also joined with other Ranking Members on the Energy and Commerce Committee, and its relevant subcommittees, to call for hearings into the specifics of what happened at the Fukushima Daiichi Power Plant. "Until Congress and the Administration have had the opportunity to conduct its own independent evaluation of the risks posed by nuclear reactors in the United States, and the preparedness of industry and regulators to respond to those risks, I urge caution in determining how best to move forward in U.S. nuclear energy policy."###
03.11.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Mr. Chairman, the Upton-Inhofe bill that we are marking up today is an extreme and excessive piece of legislation."This bill would eliminate the EPA’s authority to require commonsense and cost-effective efficiency standards for the highest polluting facilities in the country."I oppose this radical bill that would gut the Clean Air Act and roll back the EPA’s authority to the protect public health and the environment from carbon pollution."This legislation would also roll back EPA-issued, and industry-supported, standards to reduce carbon pollution from cars and trucks. "These same standards would save 1.8 billion barrels of oil while saving Americans money at the pump. But the Upton-Inhofe bill would prevent additional reductions in the future."Mr. Chairman, on several occasions I have asked you to work with me on crafting legislation that would actually move our country forward and help wean us from our dependence on foreign oil by working together on a clean energy standard."Even today, as we begin the process of marking up this uncompromising piece of legislation that would leave many American families unprotected from hazardous air pollution, while allowing industry to operate unfettered and unregulated, I maintain hope that we may come together and work on legislation that will provide solutions for American families and the U.S. economy."While countries such as China make significant investments in clean energy technologies, which is one of the key emerging sectors of the 21st Century, this bill would only provide American companies with even more uncertainties about the future, less guidance on how best to move forward, and a false sense of complacency due to the present dynamics of Washington politics."The fact of the matter is that America, as well as the world around us, is moving towards cleaner, more efficient, and renewable energy sources."Policymakers understand this fact, as do industry leaders here and abroad."The question is whether we will remain the global leader in creating and manufacturing these clean energy technologies or will we cede our leadership on these emerging industries to China and other nations."And this is an extremely important and telling question that we must ask ourselves, because the country that leads the world in creating these new energy technologies of the future, indeed, will be the nation that leads the world in the 21st Century."Mr. Chairman, sadly, this bill does not move America forward in any sense but, rather, attempts to gut the EPA’s ability to protect our citizens, rolls back commonsense efficiency standards, and prevents successful vehicle standards from being strengthened or replicated in future years."Nothing about this bill advances America’s interests. Our citizens are left unprotected and the agency designed to safeguard our air quality would be left without the authority to do so."Instead of encouraging our energy companies to plan, invest and become more competitive with the trends and realities of the future, this bill encourages companies to stand pat and keep doing business the same way they have been for the last 50 or 100 years."We all understand that my Republican colleagues have the votes here, today, to ram this bill through the subcommittee, and to push it through to the full committee and even to get it through the Congress, but then what?"Instead of working in a bipartisan fashion to construct a bill, such as a clean energy standard, that truly moves America forward, protects our citizens, and provides guidelines that allow industry to plan for the future, we are here marking up a radical, regressive bill that I believe will only end up as a sad and curious footnote in the history of this committee."After our subcommittee has completed our business on this bill, I sincerely hope that we may begin work on legislation that helps us plan and invest for the future."I have no doubt that we all love this country and we all want to do what’s in the nation’s best interest."My only fear is that by the time my Republican colleagues come around to where the future is heading, we may have lost too much time and given China and the rest of the world too much of a head start."With that I yield the balance of my time."###
03.11.2011	WASHINGTON –– “Thank you, Madame Administrator, for being here today. And thank you for all of your hard work and dedication on behalf of the American people to help provide us with clean air and water and to protect the public health, in spite of all the ridicule and contempt that you have encountered as you attempt to do the job President Obama appointed you to do.“The President’s budget already proposes a 13 percent decrease to the EPA’s FY12 budget; however, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are attempting to compound your challenges by proposing draconian cuts of almost a third of the EPA’s budget compared to FY10 levels.“I can tell you, Madame Administrator, that my constituents are very confused and perplexed that the same Republicans who would cut $3 billion from the agency charged with protecting the public health, are also the same politicians who vehemently resist taking away the $3.6 billion in tax credits from oil companies who are making record profits, even as average Americans struggle to pay for gas.“Some programs that are near and dear to me will see significant funding cuts, including a $550 million reduction to the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund. “This program provides loans to aid individual water systems, such as the one in Crestwood, IL, in my district, that have trouble complying with federal drinking water regulations, as well as offset costs for meeting the most serious risks to human health.“Another important program, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, will see a $125 million reduction in funding, even as we struggle to keep the invasive Asian Carp from entering Lake Michigan waters.“Madame Administrator I realize that with such steep funding cuts you are forced to make some tough choices as your prioritize your agenda and work to protect America’s air and water supply.“However, when my Republican colleagues are proposing to slash your budget by one-third, I would be curious to know how your agency will be able to do the job that the American people expect and count on you to do. I look forward to questions so you can tell us how these cuts will affect the critical work that you’re undertaking at the EPA.“With that I yield back my time.”###
03.09.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) proudly signed his name to a letter to U. S. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) who, tomorrow, as Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee will hold a hearing that seeks to single out one class of American citizens under the specious search for what allegedly motivates this class of American citizens to embrace what King recently described as "self radicalization" within the Muslim American community."The sad fact of the matter is that our nation has been down this wretched path before. Whether it was the unjust internment of loyal Japanese Americans during World War II or the thousands of law-abiding African Americans and their supporters who, in the 1950s and 60s, were routinely beaten, jailed, or worse all for the simple act of being bold enough to speak truth to power by standing up for their right to equal treatment under the law, America has seen its since of justice and fair play toward all its citizens violated when the ethos of fear and xenophobia has its way. I am outraged by the fact that, tomorrow, in the halls of the United States Congress, a member of the Republican majority has seen fit to rile up anti-Muslim hostilities in an exercise that will not result in any good end," said Rush who plans to attend tomorrow morning's hearing. Rush's 1st Congressional District is home to thousands of Muslim American citizens and the broader, Chicago metropolitan region is home to upwards of half a million Muslim Americans.Rush lent his name to a letter that was delivered to Rep. King, today, that in part said this, "We are…deeply concerned that the stated narrow scope and underlying premises of these hearings unfairly stigmatizes and alienates Muslim Americans. We ask that you reconsider the scope of these hearings and instead examine all forms of violence motivated by extremist beliefs, rather than unfairly focusing on just one religious group. We believe the tone and the focus of these hearings runs contrary to our nation's values. Muslim Americans contribute to our nation's wellbeing in many professions including as doctors, engineers, lawyers, firefighters, business entrepreneurs, teachers, police officers and Members of Congress. Their hard work helps to make our country exceptional."King's hearing, entitled "The Extent of Radicalization in the American Muslim Community and that Community's Response," will convene tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. EST in the Cannon House Office Building. Two members of Congress are expected to testify—U. S. Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), the first Muslim American elected to Congress and a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, and U. S. Rep. John Dingell (D-M), the Dean of the U. S. House of Representatives whose home state of Michigan boasts the largest Muslim American community in the United States. Here is a pdf copy of the signed letter to Rep. Peter King. ###
03.09.2011	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) released the following statement upon learning of Illinois Governor Pat Quinn signed into law a historic ban on the death penalty in Illinois and commuted the sentences of 15 death row inmates to life without parole:"One of the fundamental tenets of our work as legislators is to protect the innocent and today Governor Quinn has made a right and moral decision in placing a ban on the death penalty in Illinois and in doing so he has ensured that no wrongfully convicted person suffers this fate. Life in prison for those guilty of horrendous and capital crimes is punishment enough," Rep. Rush said. "I have long been against capital punishment not only because I find it inhumane, but because most of those who receive this penalty are poor and mostly people of color. Today’s courageous action will go a long way toward fixing a system so fraught with error that it has at times convicted and condemned the innocent along with the guilty." ###
03.09.2011	WASHINGTON –– “Good afternoon. Well, ladies and gentlemen, here we go again! We are consuming valuable time that could and should be spent considering, discussing, and debating what the witnesses told us earlier today before we recessed. With no disrespect meant to these witnesses, we should be dealing with much more pressing matters. Why are we accusing the FCC of being a runaway agency, over a ‘dead horse’ issue, which is now a question of law that the DC Circuit will decide? “Americans don’t pay taxes to hear us bicker about the legislative process. If the process is fair, then everything else will fall into place. But, when the legislative process is broken—just like our economy was before President Obama took over to lead this nation back to recovery, a single-digit unemployment rate, and put it on course to create jobs and a more secure future for our country—our constituents are not well served.“We asked for three witnesses today. You gave us three witnesses. As a result, this has been one of the more balanced hearings this Committee has had since the start of the 112th Congress. But, now that the dinner table has been set, you are tying both of our hands behind our back by proceeding to subcommittee markup on this flawed resolution. So, why are we here?“Clearly, in the view of the Majority, the Minority should not be here to shape legislation that could affect as many as one-third of the American voters who elected us to represent them on this side of the aisle.“Our constituents sent us to Washington to represent their interests and to consider, discuss and debate differing and opposing views. Is this what Americans should expect from a Republican-led majority? “This is a very dangerous precedent. This subcommittee is taking an extremely rare action today by proposing to nullify the FCC’s Open Internet rules by using a Congressional Review Act vehicle, which has been used far more by the Senate than in this Chamber.“Coupled with that, the Majority has had the audacity to say that Members will not be recognized for the purpose of offering amendments to this Resolution. “With all due respect to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, I believe American taxpayers deserve better from all of us as leaders. “With that I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
03.08.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I must also commend you for allowing us to hold this very important hearing today. "Mr. Waxman and I, as well as all our colleagues on this side of aisle, were adamant in requesting this hearing because we believe this subcommittee would be doing a disservice to all of our constituents, as well as to the entire committee process, if we were to proceed to marking up the Upton-Inhofe bill, which would repeal the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases, without hearing from actual scientists about what the scientific evidence says regarding greenhouse gas emissions and their effects on both climate change and the overall public health. "Let us make no mistake about it, with respect to all of the witnesses that we will hear from today, there really is no widespread debate among the scientific community on whether greenhouse gases contribute to climate change."On one side you have over 95 percent of respected scientists and scientific organizations, worldwide, including the National Academy of Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Geophysical Union, the American Meteorological Society, the U.S. Global Change Research Program as well as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, all in agreement that man-made greenhouse gases do contribute to climate change and that these impacts can be mitigated, through policy, to curb these emissions. "And on the other side you have a very small group, less than 5% of the scientific community, who range from straight-out climate change deniers to those who would dispute the certainty of the claims that human behavior is contributing to climate change. "I recognize that there is real fear out there by those who believe that the EPA's attempt to regulate greenhouse gases, even if it is by only the largest emitters, will lead to job loss in some very important sectors in our economy. "I represent Illinois, which is one the largest coal states in the country, and I recognize that any policy regulating greenhouse gases will have real consequences on jobs and the economy in my state."But I sincerely believe, because the science tells me so, that these gases must be regulated because they have a serious and costly impact on public health, in my state and around the country. "I believe it is our duty to look out for those people across the country, who are being affected by the pollution associated with greenhouse gases, and we must find a way to sensibly address this issue in a balanced and measured approach. "For me, the cost of doing nothing outweighs the cost of action because the science tells us that we cannot keep living by the status quo. "I believe we can enact sensible measures that will both protect the public health and help create new jobs so that we are not making our citizens choose between clean air to breathe and jobs to feed their families. "Mr. Waxman and I sent a letter to you dated February 7th, Mr. Chairman, asking you to work with us in drafting a clean energy standard, so that we can move our country forward in creating new energy jobs and technologies that would put people to work, clean our air, and also keep America on the forefront of the environmental protection industry, an industry that was projected to reach $700 billion last year. "Additionally, I would be happy to work with you, Mr. Chairman, on a clean coal initiative, such as expanding programs like the FutureGen project, which just began operations in Morgan County, IL, and hopefully, will provide answers to whether coal sequestration can be expanded for commercial use. "As this USA Today poster here highlights: there are so many more benefits in acting to address climate change, as the science tells us we must do, including energy independence, sustainability, cleaner air and water, and a healthier populace, to name a few, than living with the status quo and hoping beyond hope that the majority of the world's scientists are just wrong. "So I ask you, Mr. Chairman, and all of my Republican colleagues, to listen to what the science is telling us and let's work together to move this country forward by creating a clean energy standard, by working to promote clean coal initiatives, and by showing the American people that we can be serious about finding solutions and that we're not just here for political infighting and scorekeeping. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and with that I yield back my time." ###
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON -- “Good morning. “I want to extend a very warm welcome to Governor Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, Governor Haley Barbour of Mississippi, and Governor Gary Herbert of Utah. Thank you for appearing before our committee today on such an important topic.“I am very disappointed by what we are going to debate today. First of all, national healthcare reform is one of the most important and historic pieces of legislation that Congress has ever passed. As the world’s richest country, providing affordable healthcare services to as many Americans as possible should be our nation’s foremost moral obligation.“Therefore, it is difficult to comprehend—after the historic healthcare reform legislation was signed into law to provide for nearly 46 million uninsured citizens and with 8.6 million of those being children—why on Earth we are trying to unravel what has taken us so many years to stitch together!“As we speak, these numbers are increasing. Since the start of the recession in 2009, more than 6 million individuals have enrolled in Medicaid. The vast majority of low-income individuals who will become eligible for Medicaid under health care reform do not have access to affordable, private health insurance coverage.“Unfortunately, but not unexpectedly, my Republican colleagues have shaded the truth again by saying Medicaid’s expansion under the new health reform law will provide coverage to Americans who would have otherwise been covered by private insurance. This is simply not true. On the contrary, healthcare expansion will significantly reduce the numbers of low-income families that are uninsured and effectively increase access to care for many of this nation’s vulnerable populations.“I am shocked that my colleagues are attempting to transform the debate over health care reform into a matter of “money.” Maintaining good public health does not come with a price tag. Instead, we should be looking at the increased productivity and long-term fiscal and business-related savings that national health care reform will yield. Rather than continuing to fight to repeal or to significantly water down historic legislation that is now the law of the land, this Committee should be searching for ways to actually help states find ways to deliver affordable, high quality health careservices to those Americans who desperately need it.“In my home state of Illinois, we are facing some very serious health care challenges. Medicaid cuts to hospitals, nursing homes and other providers will devastate the well-being of hundreds of thousands of Illinois citizens and our state’s health-care delivery system. Our children and families will lose their health care in these challenging economic times as they face the grim prospect of job losses, home foreclosures, and increased discretionary spending of household budgets on rising food and transportation costs.“We simply cannot let these people and families down and it seems to me that dialing the clock back makes absolutely no sense at all. “I yield back.” ###
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all of the guests attending today's hearing."Mr. Chairman, there seems to be a concerted effort by many of my colleagues on your side of the aisle to delegitimize the science that says that greenhouse gases are pollutants and, therefore, should be regulated. "Additionally, in an attempt to counteract all of the various respected, peer-reviewed studies that show the environmental protection industry actually creates jobs and stimulates the economy, as well as leads to a healthier and more productive constituency, today, we will hear testimony that will lead us to believe that any policy that regulates greenhouse gases will automatically lead to job losses. "However, it is extremely important for us to remember that just because it is possible to find some within the scientific community to dispute what the other 90% of scientists agree on—that climate change is man-made––does not make the lone dissenters the authority on this issue. "And, just because different industry sources pay to produce studies that show that regulating greenhouse gases will be costly and will yield little to no benefit, doesn't make it true. "My point, here, is that all studies are not equal and we should carefully vet those individuals who disagree with the vast majority of respected scientists worldwide on the causes of climate change, as well as those who dispute the reports that say moving toward more efficient and cleaner energy technologies will lead to substantially greater costs without the added benefits."In fact, once again, our side tried to invite a scientist to sit on the witness panel, today, only to be rebuffed. I cannot imagine why this committee would attempt to move such sweeping and regressive legislation, such as the Upton-Inhofe bill, that would repeal the EPA's ability to regulate harmful greenhouse gases, without hearing the scientific evidence of how this would impact our economy, environment, and the public health. "I sincerely hope that we will be able to hear from scientists at a future hearing so that we are able to make informed decisions before moving to any markup of legislation in this area. "After all, just because we may try to ignore the science behind greenhouse gas emissions and how it affects climate change, does not mean it does not exist. "We know that since the inception of the Clean Air Act, opponents of the bill have been warning that environmental regulation will kill jobs and lead to outsourcing overseas. "Clean Air Act opponents falsely predicted that electricity prices would skyrocket if the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments were passed, when in fact, electricity prices actually declined in the decade following 1990 by approximately 18%. "While we will hear that regulating greenhouse gases will cripple our economy and destroy our manufacturing industry, the U.S. Census Bureau conducted an annual survey of the U.S. manufacturing sector and found that pollution abatement operating costs were only 0.4%, on average, of overall manufacturing costs, including not just air pollution controls but all other abatement costs. "In fact, peer-reviewed articles in top economics journals find little evidence that environmental regulations have dampened U.S. competitiveness or led to outsourcing."Actually, the Clean Air Act has been one of the most successful and bipartisan environmental laws enacted in American history. "In the 40 years since its enactment, the Clean Air Act has decreased air pollutants by 60%, even as our economy has grown by more than 200%. "A peer-reviewed EPA study found that the Clean Air Act was responsible for saving more than 205,000 premature deaths, 22,000 cases of heart disease, and 674,000 cases of chronic bronchitis, annually, between 1970 and 1990. "Additionally, the Clean Air Act has been a stimulant for our economy, with estimates that it generated as much as $300 billion in revenues and $44 billion in exports, while supporting close to 1.7 million American jobs by the year 2008. In fact, when both direct employment and indirect employment are taken into account, the environmental protection industry is estimated to have created a range of 3.8 million to 5 million new jobs!"Promoting cleaner technologies has the benefit of protecting our citizens with cleaner air while also creating jobs and investments for our economy. "The Office of Management and Budget examined ten Clean Air Act regulations finalized in 2008, 2009, and 2010 and concluded that all ten had benefits that exceeded costs by a ratio of 7 to 1 on average."In fact, according to the Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration, environmental technology exports have grown dramatically from less than $10 billion in 1990 to about $44 billion in 2008, and the U.S. share of foreign environmental technology markets has been increasing. "In 2008, the U.S. had a net trade surplus of $11 billion in environmental technologies, which helped the U.S. balance of trade."According to many top CEOs, there could be a great benefit for industry to have clear-cut rules of the road in regards to clean energy and regulatory obligations moving forward, rather than the piecemeal approach that is currently being implemented by the states and regional authorities. "Mr. Chairman, I fear today's debate is being framed in a way where we are presented with a false choice between "job killing" EPA regulations and having environmental standards to protect our citizens. "I would submit that, in fact, history has proven that we can indeed protect our environment and also strengthen our economy through sensible and balanced regulations that help create jobs and new technologies, protects the public health, increases worker productivity and promotes clean air. "We've done precisely this before and it can be done again. "With that I yield the balance of my time." ###
02.24.2011	CHICAGO ––Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement in response to an expansive February 22nd letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski, signed by 23 leading, national civil rights, telecom and media organizations including the NAACP and the Minority Media and Telecommunications Council. Rush's statement takes into account the initial reaction of the FCC to the issues raised in this joint communication."Obviously, there is a strong difference of opinion between the Federal Communications Commission and the 23 national civil rights organizations who believe there are serious deficiencies regarding the administration, compliance history and proposed funding of civil rights policies and programs," said Rush, who is a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which has oversight responsibility for the FCC."To the FCC's credit, its response cites some of its accomplishments including its work on the Comcast-NBCU merger review, its revisiting of key minority-ownership provisions in the Sirius-XM merger, its collaboration with Congress to resolve flawed industry methodologies for calculating and valuing minority broadcast audiences for purposes of setting broadcast advertising rates, and its request for an increase in resources to fund the Office of Communications Business Opportunities and its Office of Workforce Diversity."However, to the detriment of minority and small businesses, the FCC has not released its Section 257 Report, which is now almost 15 months late, based on the statutory timetables set forth in the 1996 Telecommunications Act. "The facts also clearly show that the FCC has failed to act on its own, or on delegated authority, to address dozens of issues including reducing its crushing backlog of over 70 pending minority ownership and EEO proceedings which included proposals and proposed rules for conducting more effective EEO enforcement. As additional examples, the FCC has yet to designate staff to handle compliance related to the advertising non-discrimination rule, or to rule on the 2005 Hurricane Katrina petition for multilingual emergency communications"To date, I have been grossly underwhelmed by the lip-service and platitudes I have heard from this Commission regarding the importance of concluding Commission proceedings, studies, and reports that can dramatically affect the fortunes of minority viewers, listeners, new market entrants, established businesses, and entrepreneurs. Their words aren't matching up with their actions. I look forward to a more detailed explanation from the FCC's leadership about what appears to be lack of aggressive engagement and follow through on issues of importance to small and minority-owned businesses."I will also be paying close attention to the resolution of these issues as we review the FY 2012 budget. I strongly believe that the issues raised by the MMTC should be accorded the same attention that the FCC has paid to other high priority items, such as the national broadband plan, and I will be working to ensure that all of the issues outlined in their letter are thoroughly resolved."NOTE: Here's a link to the joint letter as posted to the MMTC's website:https://mmtconline.org/lp-pdf/FCC%20CivilRightsLtr%20022211.pdf ###
02.17.2011	WASHINGTON – In a powerfully delivered floor speech, last night, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) spoke from the heart as a father and a national leader when he spoke passionately about the need for Level 1 Trauma care facilities in underserved communities. Rush’s interest in this issue is long-standing but it gained added emphasis because of a widely read editorial in the Chicago Sun-Times that cited the chronic lack of Level 1 trauma care facilities on the South Side of Chicago and in similarly underserved communities throughout the United States. While the Sun-Times’ editorial cited a recent loss of life due to this problem, Rush also shared what he and his family went through, in 1999, when his 29-year-old son, Huey Rich, was shot and lost his life partly due to the fact that the nearby hospital—just a few blocks from where his son was shot—did not have a Level 1 trauma care facility. Here’s the text of Congressman Rush’s words as delivered on the House floor: “Madame Speaker, today I am rising to speak out on the severe lack of centers and facilities for Level 1 trauma centers throughout this nation. “I introduced an amendment which I am withdrawing. “Madame Speaker in my home State of Illinois, our family members are dying due to the tragic lack of Level 1 trauma centers in close proximity to those who need it. Sadly, our newspaper headlines, including yesterday’s Chicago Sun-Times, are filled with stories, tragic stories of victims struck by bullets, stabbed and other kinds of trauma visited upon them. Despite the best efforts of witnesses, bystanders and arriving paramedics, the lack of nearby Level 1 trauma centers dramatically reduces survival rates and drives up long-term acute care needs and costs. “Madame Speaker, in 1999, my son, 29-years-old, Huey was shot two blocks from a hospital but he couldn’t go to that hospital because they didn’t have a Level 1 trauma center. So they had to transport him some 10 miles away where, eventually, he passed.“This is just one example of one of these sad stories. It is not only patently unfair but it’s an injustice that in a nation as vast and as prosperous as ours that we have a tragic lack of misplaced priorities by not having Level 1 trauma centers close to the communities where people reside.“The fact that a community that’s home to about 750,000 people on the greater South Side of Chicago, an overwhelming portion of which sits in my congressional district, does not have one, not one, Level 1 Trauma care center, literally, results in the needless loss of life for far too many of us.“Our nation has seen time and time again the amazing work that gifted trauma surgeons and fully equipped trauma care facilities can deliver to pull patients back from almost certain death. What I want to ensure, Madame Speaker, is that the same level of care that’s available in the affluent communities in this nation is also available to the men, the women and the children in low-income communities.“The afore mentioned editorial in the Chicago Sun-Times reported on the tragic set of circumstances that befell an 18-year-old trauma victim who, after being struck by a bullet in a drive-by shooting last August, could not go to a nearby University of Chicago Medical Center—that was only four blocks away—because that facility did not have a trauma center. The University of Chicago Hospital, one of the major hospitals in this nation, does not have a Level 1 trauma center.“Instead, at a time when every minute counts to save a life, paramedics had to drive the victim nine miles to the nearest Level 1 trauma center, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where the victim later died.“Madame Speaker, situations like this simply should not happen in America!“As I stand here, today, I am fully aware of the need to provide funding for trauma centers for the financial losses that they incur. The National Trauma Care Foundation has estimated that the economic loss to trauma centers due to their treatment of the uninsured and underinsured patients is $230 million per year. “In that same Chicago Sun-Times editorial that I mentioned before, they also reported on a study, last year, by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation that found that almost three-fourths of the nation’s emergency rooms are unable to provide round-the-clock specialty care, and almost one-fourth of hospitals cited this as a reason for the loss or downgrading of their trauma care designation.“It is time, Madame Speaker, for us to address this nationwide shortage of trauma care, especially in underserved areas. I yield back the balance of my time. ### A video of Congressman Rush’s floor statement is posted to our website. Also, here’s a link to the Chicago Sun-Times editorial, “South Side Trauma Care Ignored Long Enough,” in its entirety:https://www.suntimes.com/opinions/3817174-474/editorial-s.-side-trauma-care-ignored-long-enough
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today proudly welcomed his ‘A' rating for his 2010 voting record on anti-poverty measures as recently announced by the Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law. This month, the Shriver Center, named in honor of the iconic founder of the Peace Corps, released its fourth annual Poverty Scorecard which grades members of Congress on their voting performance on the 16 House votes that Shriver Center leadership and leading national anti-poverty experts deem the most important anti-poverty measures of the year. In a like manner, the Poverty Scorecard also rated 14 key U.S. Senate votes that were the most significant in fighting poverty."I am honored to be recognized by the Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law for recognizing my voting record, last year, on important pieces of legislation that make all the difference in the quality of life for poor people in our country," said Rush who, for his entire adult life has fought tirelessly on behalf of low-income men, women and children. "What today's culture fails to realize is that, in many respects, the expression ‘there but for the grace of God go I' can apply to all of us when it comes to our personal or family economic security. Right now our nation is at the beginning of a national dialogue on our domestic spending priorities. I want my constituents to know that I will always stand on the side of meeting the needs of low-income and working-class families versus those whose only interest is in the size of their next tax cut. I will be vigilant in fighting to ensure that the budget we ultimately adopt is not balanced on the backs of poor people while ignoring the fact that we're paying for two wars that we cannot afford." Rush added, "I humbly accept this high honor that has been bestowed upon me by the leadership of the Shriver Center and those national public policy officials who participated in this annual evaluation. I promise to continue to live up to this recognition while continuing to work to ensure that those who need a hand up, to better provide for themselves and their families, actually get it."The Shriver Center, with the help of national anti-poverty experts, identified the 14 Senate votes and 16 House votes that were most significant in fighting poverty. Each congressional member was assigned a letter grade, A+ through F-, based on their voting performance. Members who did not vote on enough bills were not graded.Highlights from this year's Poverty Scorecard include the following:• In the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression, some congressional members don't vote for poverty-fighting legislation.• Unsurprisingly, there is often a negative correlation between a state's poverty rate and the voting record of its members, meaning the states with the highest poverty rates had delegations with the lowest average scores in voting to fight poverty. • In contrast to the discovery that there's a negative correlation between a state's poverty rate and the voting records of its members, the report found that several states with higher than average poverty rates have Congressional delegates with good records in voting to fight poverty.• A significant percentage of Congressional delegates with poor voting records on anti-poverty measures are from Southern states.The Shriver Center provides national leadership in efforts identifying, developing, and supporting creative and collaborative approaches to social and economic justice for low-income people. The Shriver Center fulfills its legal advocacy and policy development through a comprehensives set of initiatives, including representing low-income people on a variety of issues that affect their social and economic well-being and managing communications and access to poverty law strategies and policy-related information.Here's a link to the complete 2010 Poverty Scorecard for all members of Congress:https://www.povertyscorecard.org/members/ ###
02.16.2011	Good morning Madam Chair Bono Mack, Ranking Member Butterfield and Chairman Emeritus Dingell. I am glad that the first subcommittee hearing topic chosen by the new Republican majority and its Ranking Member is about consumer safety and protection and what the Consumer Product Safety Commission is doing to advance the laws we've passed to protect American consumers. In spite of government's efforts to grow our economy and to substantially reduce our deficit, we must not lose sight of consumer safety and the well-being of American consumers, and CERTAINLY our MOST VULNERABLE, our children. In 2009, there were an estimated 250,100 toy-related injuries treated in U.S. hospital emergency rooms. The annual average of estimated toy-related injuries from 2005 to 2009 was 228,200. Of the estimated 250,100 injuries requiring emergency room visits, an estimated 185,900 (or 74 percent) occurred to children less than 15 years of age, while an estimated 90,600 (36 percent) occurred to children younger than 5 years of age. As the outgoing Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection for the last four years, I was proud to have authored the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA), which was co-sponsored by 106 Members of Congress. CPSIA passed the House by a unanimous vote of 407 to 0 and 192 of those Members who voted "yes" were Republicans. CPSIA established consumer product safety standards and other safety requirements for children's products. It also reauthorized and modernized the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). One of those modernizations, which I anticipate is going to be heavily discussed today, is the CPSC's new publicly accessible database. This tool allows consumers to search consumer product incident reports. Using this tool, consumers can also report product safety hazards to the CPSC in ways that improve the quality, value, and accuracy of the data collected. This tool is scheduled to launch on March 11, 2011.CPSIA also authorized substantial increases in funding for the CPSC through FY 2014. To reinvigorate the CPSC, CPSIA increased the agency's authority to fund up to 500 full-time employees and to assign a percentage of that bulked-up staff to duty stations at U.S. ports of entry and to inspect overseas manufacturing facilities. Among other things, CPSIA also repealed provisions that had limited funding for no more than three CPSC commissioners; currently, there is a full complement of five CPSC commissioners, including its Chairman Inez Tenenbaum, who was nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate in June 2009.I intend to remain very active and engaged on these issues. I know what you're up against and I want to wish you well, Madams Chair Bono Mack and Vice Chair Blackburn, as I hold special fondness for the work I've done and for our accomplishments as Members of this subcommittee. I am looking forward to a very productive hearing.Thank you. ###
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) sent a heartfelt letter of congratulations to Dan Akerson, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of General Motors Company, for their generous decision to help meet the financial needs of deserving, academically prepared college-bound students. On February 10, General Motors announced an annual, $4.5 million commitment for their Buick Achievers Scholarship program, a program created to recognize and reward 1,100 college-bound students nationwide who excel both in the classroom and in the community."At a time when so many deserving students, especially top-achieving minority youth in my district, are finding it difficult to scrape together the funds needed to go to college, I am thrilled that a corporation of the size and scale of General Motors would step up to the plate to do its part to insure that 1,100 students, each year, will have an opportunity to go to college to continue their education," said Rush whose district boasts some of the top achieving schools in the country including the nationally acclaimed Urban Prep Academy whose entire high school graduating class, this week, for the second year in a row achieved a 100% college acceptance rate.In his letter to Chairman Akerson, Rush, in part, said this, "By awarding this scholarship to high school seniors and high school graduates who have, historically, had a difficult time paying for college, such as first-generation college students, minorities, females, military veterans and spouses of military personnel, GM is demonstrating its serious commitment to giving back to the community. As a strong supporter of the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education programs, I could not be more excited that GM has decided to direct the scholarships to students majoring in these fields, as well as in the areas of design, marketing and business administration studies. By focusing on the STEM fields and business studies, GM is promoting areas of study that will help prepare our students for the challenges of tomorrow, while also training the new business owners and entrepreneurs of the future."In announcing its Buick Achievers Scholarship Program, the General Motors Foundation said its program dedicates $4.5 million annually to 1,100 motivated college-bound students, nationwide, who excel both in the classroom and in the community. What distinguishes the Buick Achievers scholarships is that they are renewable for four years, which could bring the total individual scholarship to as much as $100,000. The GM Foundation plans to start a new group of 100 students on renewable scholarships of up to $25,000 each year. Buick Achievers, designed to inspire, celebrate and enable human achievement, also will provide 1,000 students with $2,000 scholarships renewable for up to four years. Majors covered include science, technology, engineering, mathematics, design, marketing and business administration. The General Motors Foundation estimates that its annual funding for the Buick Achievers Scholarship Program could reach $18 million annually after four years.Congressman Rush's Chicago District Staff are working to ensure schools throughout his district are aware of this scholarship program.Students, families and others seeking additional information about this program, including how to apply for a scholarship, should click on the link, below, to the Buick Achievers Scholarship website:https://www.buickachievers.com/ ###
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) re-introduced "The African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011" (AIDA), a bill that’s designed to further strengthen the trade relationship between the United States and Africa. "I am re-introducing this important trade legislation as I believe it represents the legislative affirmation of the strong and growing trade relationship between the United States and the nations on the continent of Africa," said Rush who serves as the Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee as is co-chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGc). "I am proud to re-introduce a piece of legislation that has captured the hearts and minds of thousands of men and women in several African nations, as well as entrepreneurs and business leaders in Africa, in the United States and in other parts of the Diaspora. This legislation seeks to further expand the opportunities for mutual trade and investment between our nation and the people of Africa. This day also marks a milestone for me and tens of thousands of people in our country who were part of the anti-apartheid movement in the years leading up to the release of Madiba Nelson Mandela 21 years ago, today, on February 11, 1990. I will work diligently with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move this legislation into law as I strongly believe it is in the best interests of the United States and Africa that our relationship moves from that of charitable dependency to economic inter-dependency."Looking on at this important moment in history were Her Excellency Amina Salum Ali, the permanent representative to the African Union in the United States, and South Africa’s Ambassador to the United States, His Excellency Ebrahim Rasool. In response to today’s bill introduction, Ambassador Ali said, "The introduction of the African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011 is historic legislation that I was privileged to see introduced, today, by one of America’s leading civil rights leaders. This bill is an important and timely development for the African Union both in terms of charting a new paradigm for strengthening U.S.-Africa relations in the 21st century and, specifically, helping to harness the Global African Diaspora to work in partnership with the continent."In a like manner, Ambassador Rasool said, "AIDA marks the first step towards unleashing Africa’s vast potential through win-win trade and investment opportunities. This bill mirrors the spirit of the common history and destiny shared between the USA and Africa. We commend Congressman Rush for this critical initiative and look forward to continued collaboration that will lead up to the Global African Diaspora Summit, which will be hosted by South Africa in 2012."On the day Rush introduced this legislation in the 111th Congress, he noted that in today’s economy African countries represent promising export destinations for American products because they possess untapped human and natural resources with the added distinction of representing some of the world’s fastest growing economies. At the same time, the African Diaspora constitutes a growing economic force for the U.S economy, including African immigrants who have some of the highest levels of education compared to other immigrant populations."Given the level of expertise that’s available throughout the entire African Diaspora, mobilizing even a small fraction of that capacity would spark increased participation and, I believe, spirited competition among the best and brightest entrepreneurs from diverse industries not only for the economic benefits but also the opportunity to be the first to introduce or develop a diverse array of essential or innovative industries to a nation that already has strong ties in place with the people of the United States," said Rush. "These benefits and more, I believe, represent this century’s new frontier for those entrepreneurs who dare to dream and are willing to engage with the people of Africa in mutually beneficial and respectful terms." Key provisions of H.R. 656 "The African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011" include the following:• Expresses the sense of Congress that the U.S. should continue to support efforts to foster socio-economic development and economic growth in Africa by:––pursuing efforts to increase collaboration among United States government departments and agencies in order to more closely integrate and coordinate U.S. programs and policies aimed at promoting trade and investment with Africa; ––fostering United States public-private partnerships and other investments in Africa; and––supporting and fostering citizen-led efforts to form business, technical, academic and socio-cultural ties with Africans and supporting the efforts of all Americans and groups with interests and ties to Africa. • Creates a U.S. Special Representative for U.S.-Africa Trade, Development and Diaspora Affairs within the Department of State and recommends that this position serve as the head of an interagency working group whose mission would include convening a permanent, interagency United States-Africa Trade and Development Consultative Action Group.• Establishes five, regional centers to serve the northeastern, southern, plains, Midwest, western and northwestern regions of the continental United States with headquarters in cities with the highest proportion of African Diaspora residents• Recommends the creation of a report to Congress on the impact of this act on trade investments and job creation in the United States and Africa and the impact of the role of the African Diaspora in the United States in improving United States-Africa trade relations and economic development progress in Africa. WASHINGTON, D.C. –– Her Excellency Amina Salum Ali, the permanent representative to the African Union in the United States, joins U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, center, and His Excellency Ebrahim Rasool, South Africa’s Ambassador to the United States, outside the House chamber a few minutes after Rush introduced H.R. 656, The African Investment and Diaspora Act of 2011. Ali and Rasool are holding commemorative receipts that bear Rush’s signature as a memento to their having witnessed Rush’s re-introduction of this important trade legislation. ###
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON –– Yesterday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced H.R. 611, The BEST PRACTICES Act, a piece of landmark legislation that closely mirrors a bill he introduced last year, with the same name, that will establish a set of ground rules and privacy minimums to assist consumers in protecting their personal information, particularly as they engage in online, Internet-based commerce and entertainment."A large number of credible consumer and privacy advocacy organizations, leading businesses, advertising, Web 2.0 and 3.0, cloud computing and consumer reporting firms have reached out to me and my staff well in advance of my re-introduction of this legislation," said Rush who introduced similar legislation in the 111th Congress. "This is an unusually large and, perhaps, unprecedented level of activity that underscores the growing importance of consumer privacy, especially on the Internet, and the increasing concerns and anxieties harbored by consumers who find it increasingly necessary and, often, more convenient to go online to do things they have traditionally done off-line, like reading newspapers, paying bills, applying for credit and purchasing goods and services."There's no such thing as a ‘free lunch,' however, and consumers are unaware of some very basic information about how and what personal information about them is collected, stored, and shared by and between off-line and on-line businesses. As a result, it's been almost impossible for consumers to tell web sites and advertisers what their privacy expectations and tolerances are. In the absence of commonsense privacy baseline standards, the commercial Internet ecosystem has erred on the side of the unrestrained collection and disclosure of individuals' personal information. This is not the most desirable outcome for American consumers and Internet users who, currently, lack fundamental protections when it comes to their private information."In introducing his privacy bill, Congressman Rush believes that a proper balance of important interests, on both sides of the supply and demand equation, is important—especially as it relates to the further evolution of the Internet ecosystem. Rush added, "The ‘Chicken Littles' of the world and powerful interests who oppose this bill because they make more money without transparency than they would with more transparent privacy laws, and real enforcement of those laws, will tell you that this bill will kill the Internet or stifle evolution of the Internet ecosystem. This is not true. "I do not oppose Do-Not-Track. In fact, in order for companies to qualify under the FTC Safe Harbor program contained in my bill, they would have to set up a ‘Do-Not-Track like' mechanism for consumers to allow them to opt-out of having the personal information they provide, both online and offline, to third parties. Companies will have the incentive, under my bill, to agree to do these things. By agreeing to these measures, companies would be relieved of the bill's requirements to solicit the express consent from consumers before disclosing their personal information to third parties and to provide consumers with access to certain types of personal information that companies typically, and actually, store about them. The last powerful incentive that companies would have, under my bill, to implement the Safe Harbor measures is that they would avoid exposure to civil liability under private rights of action brought by individuals for violations under the Act."My bill would actually provide a sufficient mix of incentives for businesses not only to act in a more transparent manner with consumers but also to innovate and experiment with new business models, develop and provide products and services, including privacy protection tools and solutions, and to continue to offer relevant content and advertising to consumers who seek it."Key highlights of this legislation include the following:• Ensure that consumers have meaningful choices about the collection, use, and disclosure of their personal information. • Require companies that collect personal information to disclose their practices with respect to the collection, use, disclosure, merging, and retention of personal information, and explain consumers' options regarding those practices. • Require companies to provide disclosures of their practices in concise, meaningful, timely, and easy-to-understand notices, and direct the Federal Trade Commission to establish flexible and reasonable standards and requirements for such notices. • Require companies to obtain "opt-in" consent to disclose information to a third party. In the bill, the term, "third party" would be defined based on consumers' reasonable expectations rather than corporate structure. • Establish a "safe harbor" that would exempt companies from the "opt-in" consent requirement, provided those companies participate in a universal opt-out program operated by self-regulatory bodies and monitored by the FTC. • Require companies to have reasonable procedures to assure the accuracy of the personal information they collect. The bill would also require the companies to provide consumers with reasonable access to, and the ability to correct or amend, certain information. • Require companies to have reasonable procedures to secure information and to retain personal information only as long as it's necessary to fulfill a legitimate business or law enforcement need. NOTE: Here's a link to a pdf of the legislation. ###
02.10.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning. Thank you, Chairman Whitfield, for holding today's hearing to highlight our nation's growing need to address our energy security and to improve our energy independence. Energy supply and demand are key components to the American economy. They affect all dimensions of our daily lives, from driving to work, feeding our families, to heating and cooling our homes. Notwithstanding energy's fundamental importance, the markets and exchanges on which our energy sources are traded remain extremely volatile and unpredictable."I think I can safely say that a consistent theme we will be hearing throughout this morning is that it is in America's best strategic and economic interests to become less and less dependent on foreign oil, gas, and other fossil fuels in as short a time frame as possible. "The Obama Administration understands this perfectly well, which is why it has set the ambitious goals of: (1) putting one million electric automobiles on American streets, highways and into American families' garages and parking lots by 2012;(2) unleashing a clean energy revolution to double the supply of renewable energy by the end of 2012;(3) doubling American exports by the end of 2015; and by (4) dramatically decreasing American dependence on traditional fossil fuels so that, by 2035, approximately 80 percent of America's electricity is sourced by renewables."That is also why the Obama Administration is putting our country on a prudent course to disrupt our existing paradigms and business models, which yield insufficient energy reliability and efficiency, disastrous environmental consequences, and lackluster competitiveness in international trade. "Rather, the new paradigm focuses on making substantial public investments and designing incentives to encourage major private investments as well as leveraging speedier deployments of advanced electric and smart grid technologies and networks. "In past sessions of Congress, we have set policies aimed at achieving this. We've lowered dependency on volatile world oil markets by reducing our appetite for oil and gas. Under Congress's direction and the stewardship of the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), we have made significant progress towards improving our nation's energy efficiency. But our dependency—as individuals, families and businesses—on imported energy sources is still far too great. "Allow me to commend Chairman Whitfield for calling this timely hearing, especially as we are in the midst of winter with record-breaking low temperatures and snowfall in many parts of the country while, at the same time, our lagging economy imposes added pressures on Americans' budgets, especially those of the unemployed and the working poor. "I must say that regardless of the policy choices that will be made by this Administration or this Congress, our low-income American families must always be offered, and given, needed assistance to cook and to heat their homes in winter. I have been a staunch supporter and advocate of the crusade for, and led by, the effort in Congress to fully fund LIHEAP at $5.1 billion, in FY 2010, and to increase access and eligibility for low-income families, the elderly and seniors all over the country. "However, I am very deeply disappointed and disturbed that the Administration, in proposing its FY 2012 budget, plans to reduce LIHEAP by, roughly, $3.1 billion. This would amount to a steep cut in funding from the $5.1 billion levels at which the program had been funded for the past two years. This is just not acceptable. "After surviving yesterday's extremely long hearing regarding the EPA's authority to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, I hope that today's discussion is not dominated by the types of short-sighted solutions we heard yesterday. "Today's hearing shouldn't be used to criticize the EPA's permitting process to build refineries or to sanction more domestic drilling. In case you have forgotten, let me remind you that the EPA's mission, as its name indicates, is to protect the American environment and the country that we inhabit. It is called the Environmental Protection Agency, not the Oil and Gas Industry Protection Agency. "We need to get about the task of transforming the world's energy system into a low-carbon, low-emissions system. No, I repeat no, we should not use fear or insecurity to persuade the American people, and our colleagues, to conduct more domestic drilling without reasonable restraints and adequate safeguards. Drilling may be one answer to availability but it is neither an answer to volatile prices nor is it a long-term solution for rapidly dwindling supplies."Complex issues such as these require domestic and multi-lateral discussions. The answers must be comprehensive in scale and scope. We cannot deal with all of them in just one hearing. "For that purpose, tomorrow, the Africa Program, Global Energy Initiative of the Woodrow Wilson Center is organizing a briefing on "The Changing Politics of Oil: Implications for U.S. Energy Security" in Rayburn B-338 at 12 noon. "In March, I will co-lead a fact-finding mission to the Gulf of Guinea region in West Africa, where the U.S will soon import up to 25 percent of its oil and gas. Upon my return, I will be more than happy to speak with each of you and press for serious action to be taken. "Thank you and I yield back." ###
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues of the subcommittee, and each of our witnesses. Thank you very much. Let me congratulate my good friend and colleague, Mr. Whitfield on his selection to become Chairman of the Energy and Power subcommittee. I very much enjoyed working with him when he was Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. He and I worked together to move a lot of good legislation through that subcommittee in the 111th Congress, and I look forward to the same outcomes in the 112th Congress."Unfortunately, I can't say that the discussion draft we are taking up exemplifies good legislation. Before delivering my opening statement, however, allow me to get a few things off of my chest. "Now, I know that this is a new Congress…and a new majority has come in with it. Yet and still, Committee rules, procedures and decorum have remained substantially the same. If we are not careful to set the right course of action moving forward, we will find ourselves lost at sea. As we get our sea legs underneath us, let's strive to do better. "I am extremely troubled by the Majority's stubborn resistance to inviting and seating credible witnesses at this hearing, who think and believe that the EPA has a duty and the authority, under the Clean Air Act, to regulate greenhouse gases. Stacking a deck of cards with the same suit will rig the outcome before the first hand is even dealt. But that isn't what the American people, and the taxpayers, want. That's not what they deserve. This is the House of Representatives. We represent all the American people and all business and public interests, not just some of them or the ones who will support what we, as Members of Congress, want to do. "As I said earlier, this hearing's focus is on a legislative draft, known as the Upton-Inhofe Energy Tax Prevention Act. The draft bill would eviscerate the EPA by repealing indispensable responsibilities and authority the agency holds under the Clean Air Act to preserve and protect human health, our environment, and to promote more efficient use of energy. It would further overturn a Supreme Court opinion affirming a lower court's ruling that the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gases. And, it would prohibit the state of California from regulating greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles as well as stop the EPA from taking further steps in reducing tailpipe emissions. This proposal overreaches."And, all of this gets me to the BIG rub. What irritates me the most is the majority's refusal to invite the Administrator of the EPA, Ms. Lisa Jackson, to testify at today's hearing. "The only reason that Administrator Jackson is appearing before us is because we, here in the Minority, had to kick and scream so that Madam Administrator could have her day and the opportunity–– not even in Court, but in the halls of Congress––to defend her agency's findings and judgments. How can we formulate good public policy, or look at ourselves as fair and decent lawmakers, if Congress as a body doesn't solicit the views of the EPA (or from the State of California) on this draft legislation? "As a Member of Congress, I want to hear as many pertinent viewpoints as I am able to hear before deciding how to cast my vote on pieces of legislation that are critical to the welfare of our economy, our own safety as human beings, and the preservation of our planet. We shouldn't have to push this hard to get key officials and important witnesses invited to hearings of this magnitude."And, that is one reason why, Mr. Chairman, I would ask for unanimous consent to enter into the Record a response dated December 8, 2010, to a Wall Street Journal editorial titled, "The EPA Permitorium." The response, which was written by the highest ranking officers of eight (8) large electric utility companies, in essence states, that the electric sector anticipated the EPA's air-quality regulations and that the sector had already made investments in air pollution control technologies to comply with the new requirements. The response also refuted claims that the EPA's agenda would have negative economic consequences. "But, get this––they said these new greenhouse gas regulations would produce important economic benefits, including job creation and electric reliability. We can and must do better than this––after all, this is our first subcommittee hearing. "We should be fostering an open discussion and exchange of ideas and opinions as to how America can best go about reviving her economy, putting people back to work, attaining a greater degree of energy independence and reliability, and preparing our nation to regain its place as a leader in the global marketplace of renewable energy research, development, and commercialization of goods and services."As Administrator Jackson points out in a White Paper which was sent, yesterday, to me and Ranking Member Waxman, the environmental technology and services sector generated an estimated $300 billion in revenues (that's BILLION with a B) and supported nearly 1.7 million jobs. "That's not chump change and these are real jobs, which make a huge difference in the daily lives of everyday Americans and their families. "I think I've said enough. And with that, I would yield back the balance of my time." ###
02.04.2011	CHICAGO –– Yesterday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) sent a letter expressing his strong support of EPA Administrator Lisa P. Jackson's announcement of plans to set federal drinking water standards that regulate perchlorate, a chemical used to manufacture incendiary products, including rocket fuel and explosives. Rush applauded Administrator Jackson's bold leadership on this issue and vowed support of Obama Administration efforts to put in place a first-ever federal regulation for this hazardous chemical.Rush, who was recently elected by his Democratic colleagues to serve as Ranking Member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, in part said this in response to Administrator Jackson's announcement, "Your efforts to regulate perchlorate, as well as other cancer-causing volatile organic compounds, or VOCs, are consistent with my work on the Energy and Commerce Committee during the 111th Congress to protect the public health and ensure safe drinking water for all Americans…[M]y office worked with your agency to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act by inserting reporting and inspection provisions in the Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act (AQUA) of 2010. Those provisions, if enacted, would have given the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) the information and tools it needed to ensure compliance of drinking water standards and allow the agency to address violations in a timely manner."In 1986, in the First Congressional District of Illinois, which I represent, the state EPA was alerted that the Village of Crestwood officials were piping in contaminated drinking water to its citizens. Despite warningsfrom the state agency to end this illegal practice, incredibly, it took another 20 years before the state went back out to inspect the water supply and found that contaminated water was still being used."Although the AQUA Act was stalled in the Senate after passing the House last year, the language I introduced would have required states to take affirmative steps to confirm that water systems were in compliance with EPA orders to address noncompliance. Additionally, electronic reporting directly to EPA would have given the agency the timely information it needs to monitor the enforcement efforts of primacy states and to inform its own enforcement and compliance assistance efforts…I applaud you for your most recent steps to help ensure quality drinking water for all Americans. Successful implementation of these measures will go a long way in preventing another Crestwood scandal."Last year, Rush and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman co-authored and introduced H.R. 5820, the Toxic Chemicals Safety Act of 2010. In July, 2010, in his capacity, then, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, Rush held a legislative hearing on H.R. 5820. At that time, Rush expressed strong sentiments about the growing demands from consumers throughout the United States who voiced grave concerns about the presence of perchlorate and other toxins in the water they drink, the food they eat and in many of the lotions and other products they use on their bodies and the potential for harm that occurs when manufacturers fail to fully disclose the presence of hazardous chemicals.In addition to protecting public safety and the environment, Rush believes that efforts to abate water contamination can create a significant number of sustainable jobs in Illinois. On January 18, 2011, the Obama Administration announced a new collaborative effort that will be known as the Water Technology Innovation Cluster (WTIC). The WTIC, which will focus on developing and commercializing innovative technologies to solve environmental and public health challenges, will initially focus on technologies being developed in Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana. Rush will be facilitating discussions between public utilities and research partners in the state of Illinois with the aim of bringing Illinois into the WTIC and creating sustainable jobs for Illinois residents.Here's a link to a pdf copy of Ranking Member Rush's letter to EPA Administrator Jackson###
02.01.2011	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} CHICAGO –– With these words, President Obama, today, set in motion a nationwide challenge for some of our nation's best and brightest high school students to apply for the 2011 Race to the Top Commencement Challenge. Last year, over 1,000 schools submitted entries but few if any of those schools were from the Chicago area. This year, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) hopes to change that by working aggressively to ensure that every public high school within his 1st Congressional District is aware that the challenge is underway and that interested students, their parents and teachers get fully engaged in this competitive enrichment process."The public school children throughout my district face challenges on many fronts, from the potential for school-related violence to the constant specter of inadequate public school funding," said Rush who, himself, has earned a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees from Chicago-area universities. "Despite those obstacles, thousands of our young people are succeeding against the odds. I have no doubt that several of our schools can effectively compete for this national recognition that includes having President Obama speak at the winning school's commencement ceremony."My staff and I will do all we can to ensure that every public school within the 1st Congressional District is aware of this year's national challenge. I'm aware of dozens of examples where promising students and their determined teaching staff work together to ‘win the future' each and every day. And they do it the hard way by tenaciously engaging in the work necessary to master the rigors of a solid, core curriculum. At the same time, I know there are parents, locally and nationally, who are taking extraordinary steps to ensure their children secure the gift of a quality, 21st century education. "I truly believe that there are school students, in our community and in our state, who can effectively make the case that their coursework and the skills they've developed effectively empower them to move into the 21st century economy. There are students in my district who I know can compete with some of the best and brightest in our country. And so, today, I challenge them to make our community proud by stepping up to the plate to participate in the President's Commencement Challenge."This year marks the second year of this nationwide competition. Today, in a statement released by the White House, Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, said, "Success happens in schools across the country every day. The Commencement Challenge is an extraordinary opportunity for students to share their school's story and be rewarded for their commitment to preparing for college and careers."The White House announced that it had once again partnered with Viacom and the Get Schooled Foundation to launch this year's Commencement Challenge. In a video launching the challenge, Simon Boehme, the salutatorian from last year's winning school—Kalamazoo Central High —and current freshman at the University of Michigan, came to the White House to discuss the Commencement Challenge with President Obama.Last year, President Obama launched the first ever Race to the Top Commencement Challenge and encouraged public high schools across the country to show how they promote college attainment and career readiness. Over 1,000 schools applied and more than 170,000 people weighed in on short videos and essays from the six finalists. President Obama selected the national winner from the three high schools with the highest average ratings. This year, the President has renewed the challenge, calling on high schools to share effective strategies on how they are preparing their students to win the future and achieve the goal of having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.The application includes essay questions and statistical information that illustrate how schools are promoting college and career readiness for all students while establishing a culture of student success and academic excellence. Applications must be submitted by Friday, February 25th at 11:59 pm EST. Please visit our website, https://www.house.gov/rush/ , and click on the link, to the left, to directly connect to the White House website for the application and related details. . ###
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON –– Last night, like millions of Americans, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) warmly embraced President Barack Obama’s sweeping vision that seeks to help America’s economy ‘win the future’ in key policy areas especially in national energy policy. He offered this reflection on the President’s remarks this morning:“I applaud President Obama’s vision for the future of America’s energy policy. I want the President, Energy Secretary Steven Chu and other Administration officials who are driving the President’s energy agenda to know that they have my full support in working to provide them with the policy, legislative and political support needed to ensure that our nation wins in the energy arena,” said Rush who was elected last week by his Democratic colleagues to serve as Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power. “The steps our nation takes, right now, and in the months and years to come will determine America’s energy independence for future generations. The President is right when he says that “clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know there will be a market for what they’re selling.” Several states, including my home state of Illinois, have the potential to play an important role in advancing clean energy technology. I also believe opportunities lie in the expansion of renewable energy technologies, such as wind-, solar- and hydro-power, as well as in investments in clean coal technology, bio-fuels and nuclear energy. Congress must look at opportunities to build on the President’s recent extension of the Section 1603 tax grant program for renewable energy to determine if similar incentives could further spur innovation in our nation’s energy marketplace.“I am engaging in dialogue with leading stakeholders, in Illinois and throughout the United States, and I am urging the ‘innovation generation’ that the President called forth to speak out—especially those innovative, unheralded entrepreneurs who toil valiantly in our nation’s small- and minority-owned business arena.“I am honored and humbled by the opportunity to serve at this time in our nation’s history. I look forward to constructively engaging with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, in the march forward to help ensure that America’s energy industry, once again, is a beacon for the world.” ###
01.21.2011	CHICAGO – Concerned about the alarming rate of attempted child abductions of children and teenagers, the low arrest and prosecution rate in those cases, as well as the perception of a glaring disparity in the way those cases are addressed when involving a Black or Latino youth, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will convene an “Emergency Summit on Missing and Endangered Children and Teens” on Saturday, January 22 at 11 AM in the auditorium of Kennedy King College, 740 W. 63rd Street. There, he will be joined by federal and local law enforcement agencies, public policy leaders, youth welfare advocates, journalists and the families of local victims. According to the U.S. Justice Department and the National Center For Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC) 797,500 children (younger than 18) were reported missing in a 12-month period resulting in an average of 2,185 children being reported missing each day; 203,900 children were the victims of family abductions and 58,200 children were victims of non-family abductions. Rep. Rush called the Emergency Summit in response to a Chicago Tribune investigative series that reported on the more than 530 attempted child abductions by strangers in the city and suburbs in 2008. The series reported on a shockingly low 5 percent arrest rate. The newspaper also noted that in the 407 preliminary Chicago police reports identified by the Tribune since March 2008, the arrest rate was sharply lower in areas that had higher crime rates and more single-parent households and families on public assistance. “This concentration of disparities correlates closely with race in Chicago, and those South and West Side census tracts were predominantly African-American and Hispanic,” the journal reported.“There has long been a perception in low-income neighborhoods where many people of color live that when their children go missing there is less urgency than when children from white or affluent communities disappear,” Rep. Rush said. “I called this summit to not only educate the communities about the predators lurking in our neighborhoods but to also address why this perception exists.”Rep. Rush will be joined by Chicago Police Department Assistant Superintendent James Jackson, Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Sean Burke, Kirsten Anderson, NCMEC national program director, First Assistant Cook County State’s Attorney Shauna Boliker, Atty. Patti Sudendorf, Sex Crimes Division of the Cook County State’s Attorney; 20th Ward Alderman and former Chicago Police Officer Willie Cochran, Kathy P. Chaney, online editor, Chicago Defender, Rose Stearns, mother of missing teen Yasmin Acree, and Sheila Powell, aunt of slain child Jahmeshia Conner, and Martha Torres, the grandmother of sisters Tionda and Diamond Bradley, among others.Acree was a 15-year-old honor student at Austin Polytech High School when she went missing three years ago from her West Side home. Family members criticized law enforcement for a “botched investigation” and for asserting the teen was a runaway despite evidence of forced entry into her home. Conner was a fifth grader living in the Englewood community in Rep. Rush’s District when she vanished walking home from a bus stop less than two blocks from her home. The child’s relatives complained that police refused to issue an Amber Alert believing the 12-year-old had simply run away from home. The girl was later found dead in an alley, having been sexually assaulted and strangled.Another high profile, unsolved case in Rush’s District involved sisters the Bradley sisters who went missing from their South Side neighborhood in July 2001. They were three and 10 years of age. Police have made no arrest in the case.According to federal statute (42 U.S.C. 3780), local law enforcement agencies are not allowed to observer a waiting period before taking a report of a missing child and cannot request a parent or guardian to wait a certain amount of time to see if the child will return before a report is taken. They are required to enter the child’s information into both the reporting state’s and FBI’s National Crime Information Center database within two hours of receiving a missing child report. “My goal is educate the community on ways to protect our children, as well as inform people of the processes, procedures, and resources that are in place for when a child goes missing. The constituents in my district must have the trust and confidence in their public officials that everything is being done to protect our children, and when a child is abducted, finding them and bringing the perpetrators to justice is a top priority for all of us whose job it is to protect the community,” Rep. Rush said.The congressman also commended law enforcement for the recent arrest in the murder of 9-year-old Mya Lyons. “It was a horrific case, then, and now that her father has been arrested in her death it remains a horrific case now,” he said. “None of us should rest until each and every one of these cases involving missing, abducted and slain children are solved.” ###
01.20.2011	"I tell you, Julia [Johnson], as you were introducing me, the preacher in me, I had to hold it down because my first instinct was to pass the offering plate. [audience laughter] "But, again, I want to thank each and every one of you. This has been such a marvelous opportunity to be with friends and people who I consider to be family. And after what I consider to be a brutal climate, yesterday, I needed to be around some friendly faces again. I want to thank Henry Rivera and I certainly want to thank my friend, David Honig, for being a real friend. I’m sure you’ve heard the expression ‘a friend in need is a friend indeed.’ And when I was in need they certainly came forward, Julia and David, you all have done such a marvelous job on my behalf. I remember as a youngster that there was a sign in the dry cleaners that my family frequented and it said something to the effect of "there’s no other place like this place so this must be the place!” And as I view this gathering there’s no other gathering in America that I wanted to be at other than this gathering here. And I’m supposed to be on a plane but I postponed that so that I could be here to tell you how much I love you and how much I respect you and how much I wanted to be here with you. "Throughout my days as an activist for civil rights and social justice on Chicago’s city streets and in inner city communities around the country—as a former member of the Black Panthers, as a Chicago City Councilman, and now as a U. S. Representative of the 1st district of Illinois—I have worked tirelessly to give minority business owners a seat at America’s table where abundance and prosperity is high on the menu. "And it is groups, like this one, that sustain me, defend me, and give me the encouragement and the ammunition to fight on and to fight harder. And even when there is strong resistance to our goals and to what we are trying to achieve collectively your spirit, your fighting spirit, your focus on the goals and desires of the American people really support me and keep me moving forward. "You are special to me, MMTC, especially you, David [Honig], Julia and others here are so special to me. But you’re special to me also because you stepped up when I was being attacked, unfairly, by a group that says it’s about change but that doesn’t know how to make real change. That group is not a change agent. As a matter of fact they represent the status quo. They don’t know how to bring about the real change that’s necessary for our constituencies, yours and mine. Not only did David and Julia stand up for me but a broad coalition of leading civil rights and minority and women business leaders, trade associations and religious organizations stood up for me including the NAACP, the National Urban League, Rainbow PUSH Coalition, 100 Black Men of America, the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights, the National Association of Neighborhoods and so many others. And without moving any farther, would you please join me in giving those men and women that I’ve mentioned a big round of applause. They didn’t have to do it, Julia and David, but they did it anyhow and I thank them so very much for it. [audience applause] "In terms of the media, communications and technology industries, minority businesses and entrepreneurs risk falling even farther behind their white counterparts. If we don’t take aggressive measures we’ll continue to fall behind. The campaign for minority media ownership, I think, was a forethought in the seventies and became an afterthought in the eighties and the nineties. And now, in the new millennium, minority businesses and entrepreneurs are not even thought of at all! "Promoting minority ownership in the telecommunications industries engages youth, it encourages student excellence in the sciences, technology, engineering, and math. It’s good for the students, it’s good for the businesses and it’s good for our nation. It’s good for the self-esteem of young people who aspire to create wealth and who aspire to make lasting and important contributions to this nation and to the world. "Our youth need to know that there are superstars in science and math and in technology. Superstars like Dr. Cheikh Anta Diop, who was a Senegalese physicist who not only was one of the few people on Earth to understand the significance of Albert Einstein’s theory of relativity shortly after its release, but who also translated it into Wolof, the language of his people. In addition to wanting to be like the sports heroes LeBron and Kobe and Michael and others, more of our young people need to want to be like Dr. Lloyd Quarterman, one of the leading nuclear scientists who, along with more than 12 other black scientists, worked with the Italian physicist, Enrico Fermi, on the Manhattan Project. And, there are others. What about Drs. Henry T. Sampson and Shirley A. Jackson, two other black physics scientists who, respectively, pioneered nuclear fission processes to split atoms safely. And Sampson went on to become the Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. "Promoting minority ownership in the telecommunications industries is good for our students, it’s good for you and your businesses. But it’s also good for our economy and the creation of African-American and Hispanic-American workers––a severely underemployed segment of our society. We have very courageous and audacious approaches to creating jobs in our society. "You know the statistics, you know the terms, you know the times that we live in. Let me just share with you the latest Bureau of Labor Statistics data as adjusted for seasonality. "The Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed to us that 15 out of 100 Americans, 25 years and over, and without a high school diploma are among the unemployed. That’s 15 out of every 100. And you can make that almost 10 out of every 100 Americans, for those with a diploma but no college degree. Eight out of every 100 Americans with some college or associates degrees are out of work today. And, almost five out of 100 Americans with a bachelor’s degree and more education don’t have a job. Those numbers are exponentially higher for Blacks and Hispanics. "Minority-owned businesses are far more inclined than non-minority firms to train future minority entrepreneurs, recruit and hire minority workers, and to locate their operations in minority communities. This is how the real world operates and how real change comes about. I share this information with you this afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, just to give you a general overview of the depth of the concerns that I and many of us have as we think about the future of men and women of color in this industry. "As I begin to conclude my remarks let me just say to each and every one of you that while I’ve been denied an opportunity to be the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology subcommittee, I have not been feeling, in any way, a sense of rejection. I am a man of purpose and I know that I do have a purpose and I know that I live according to God’s plan. And God did not mean for me to be there and He opened up another venue for me. My prayer on a constant basis is that God expands not only my ministry but that he expands my territory. And so, as the Ranking Member on the Energy and Power subcommittee I’ve already got plans on how I will work on that subcommittee in order to expand, to diligently foster, to minister and to develop an approach to energy and power that will be meaningful not only to those who are in our nation but also to those around the world. "I think that there’s a great opportunity in the energy and power area for us to think outside of the box and for us to make a real difference in terms of creating not only more affordable energy and renewable energy for the American people but also to create additional businesses all around the world. And while, as the Ranking Member, I’ll be working on those additional projects you can bet your bottom dollar that as a member of the Communications and Technology subcommittee I will continue to be as vigorous and as vigilant as I’ve always been in terms of working to make sure that your interests are promoted and that your interests are protected and that your interests are preserved. "I tell everyone, and I told this to Ranking Member Waxman in my conversations with him, and I tell this to everyone. I am on the Energy and Commerce Committee primarily for one reason and everything else flows from that. I will consider my body of work to be an excellent body of work when I see the day when there is more minority ownership of broadcasting businesses. When there’s more media ownership among minorities then I can say to myself, even if others don’t say it, that this was a job well done. But I need your help, I need your counsel and I need your encouragement. "I’m going to end this with a story I often tell my church family. It’s a story of this young man who was out playing basketball in the front yard and the ball, somehow, fell and landed and it was behind this big piece of lumber. And the young man, only 7 or 8 years old, was trying to get to the ball and he couldn’t get to that ball and he finally decided to pick up this big slab of lumber but it was much too heavy for him. But he did everything he could as he was just straining and straining trying to pick it up. But it wouldn’t budge, it wouldn’t move. "His father was watching all of this. And, so, finally after numerous tries his father said, "What are you doing?” And his son said, "Father, I’m trying to use all my strength to pick up this lumber.” His father said, "Son, you’re trying to use all your strength?” He said, "Yeah, dad, I’m using every ounce of strength that I have to try to pick it up!” And his father said, "Well, no, you’re not.” "And the boy looked bewildered at him and he stood and faced him and he said, "Well, what do you mean?” "And his father said, "Well, you haven’t asked me.” [The audience applauded.] "I’m asking you, as I try to pick up this lumber, as I try to lift your lives and the lives of so many people who are counting on you to be successful so that they can have meaning in their lives. So that they can have nourishment on their table. So they can have a decent lifestyle. "I ask you to help me as we lift together. Thank you so very much." ###
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced a House resolution that urges Members to support the United Nations’ proclamation recognizing 2011 as the "Year for People of African Descent." Rush introduced his resolution in recognition of the December 18, 2009 UN General Assembly vote to designate 2011 as the "International Year of African Descent," a resolution that specifically included the African Diaspora. The year 2011 was selected by the UN because this year coincides with the release by the UN, in 2001, of a 62-page document called the "U.N. Declaration and Programme of Action." This comprehensive report by several participating nations contained more than 122 introductory affirmations, recognitions and recommendations for over 219 specific actions aimed at eliminating institutional racism, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance worldwide. "The history and development of the continent of Africa is inextricably linked to American history as it extends all the way back to America’s shameful exploitation and murder of African men, women and children during the slave trade. Thankfully, a lot has changed since then. I am glad to have been part of an international movement to secure freedom for South Africa and more investments, by American companies, in the continent of Africa’s broad and growing economies. The resolution I am introducing, today, takes a hard look back at American engagement with the continent of Africa while also documenting the progress that’s been made and America’s commitment to continued economic and political progress, now, and in the years to come," said Rush who serves as the co-chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGc).Specifically, H. Res. 41 urges the House to support the UN’s designation of the "International Year for People of African Descent" and it adopts a sense of Congress that... the United States should strengthen bilateral, regional, and multilateral cooperation to promote the empowerment of people of African descent in relation to their social, educational, political, and economic rights; make every possible effort to advance the diverse cultural traditions and heritage of people of African descent; and strengthen its commitment to eradicate racism, undo the injustices of history, and celebrate the contributions of people of African descent across the political, social, and economic spectrum. Link to H. Res. 41 ###
01.13.2011	WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed his gratitude to the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) upon learning that, yesterday, this 2,500-member national trade association delivered a letter of support to Leader Nancy Pelosi and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry Waxman urging their support of his bid to serve as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet in the 112th Congress. This Illinois-based trade association represents a diverse array of leading Internet and technology-based companies that operate at the forefront of economic development, job creation and IT innovation throughout the United States and in key international markets. In his formal declaration of candidacy for the position to his peers, last fall, Rush cited his 15 years of service on the Energy and Commerce Committee and his leading involvement in key legislative issues that have helped to strengthen IT-based commerce. Rush served as a conferee on the Telecommunications Act of 1996 where he played a key role in helping to reconcile differences in House and Senate versions of the bill. Rush remains the only declared candidate for the Ranking Member position. In part, CompTIA’s letter to Leader Pelosi and Ranking Member Waxman from the association’s CEO, Todd Thibodeaux, reads as follows, “He has served on the Energy and Commerce Committee for 15 years and, thus, he has a deep understanding of the issues and challenges facing the IT marketplace. His experience working on the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and numerous other IT focused legislation demonstrates Representative Rush’s ability to work across party lines and among divergent stakeholders. He has shown himself to have expert knowledge on the issues and an even-handed and measured approach. “As an IT trade association we understand how difficult it is for IT companies to stay competitive in an ever-evolving marketplace for new products and services. We also have a keen understanding of the policy decisions that are needed in order to spur new IT jobs for our economy. We look to the CTI Subcommittee as a key venue to fairly hear and act on the concerns of the industry and work with us to craft legislative solutions when needed.“For all these reasons, we urge you to support Congressman Rush’s candidacy for Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet…we are confident that if he is elected to this very important role he will serve with distinction with a focus on protecting consumer interests while also looking for opportunities to spur technological innovation and competition in the IT marketplace.” ### NOTE: Here’s a link to a pdf copy of the CompTIA letter:
01.12.2011	CHICAGO – In wake of the shocking assassination attempt of Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and the shooting deaths of six people, including a congressional aide, Illinois Congressman Bobby L. Rush has been queried by national and local media about his own security concerns. In response to a specific question about what measures he uses to secure the safety of his staff and if he had current safety concerns, the legislator responded by saying he was considering closing his District Office at 700 – 706 E. 79th Street due to concerns expressed not only by his staff but also constituents.He has not closed his office nor determined whether he will re-locate this office; therefore it is inaccurate to report it as so. For nearly two decades Mr. Rush’s District Office has been located in Beat 624, which recently was called the “most violent” police beats in the city. Located near 79th and Cottage Grove, the area is a hot spot for fatal shootings, criminal assaults, robberies and gang and drug activity. It is also near areas were two Chicago police officers lost their lives. Given this fact, it is the congressman’s belief that the appropriate resources should be distributed to this district so order, relative peace and the rule of law is maintained.As a lawmaker, activist and responsible employer, Congressman Rush is concerned about the safety of not only the residents who live within Beat 624, but also of his constituents and his congressional staff. Security measures of staff on Capitol Hill are quite different than those used within congressional districts and he will entertain any reasonable and responsible solution to ensuring the safety of those who access his District Office on a daily basis. Rush’s congressional aides take regular precautions regarding personal safety, yet despite certain risks, all continued committed to public service, ensuring the people of the 1st Congressional District are served. ###
01.10.2011	CHICAGO –On Tuesday, January 11 at 3 PM Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and Congressman Danny K. Davis (D-IL) will join a number of Chicago anti-violence advocates, clergy and others to call for an aggressive redistribution of police services to poor neighborhoods and to decry policing ideas currently being proposed by others as nothing more than “…Rose Garden strategies with a bunch of thorns.” The legislative duo will stand before the Memorial Tribute to Youth Killed by Violence at 11618 S. Michigan in Chicago’s Roseland community.“The people living in less crime-ridden parts of our city don’t require the same amount of policing as the people in Roseland, Englewood, Lawndale or Austin,” Rush said. “Police officers should be deployed where the crime is. All I’ve heard is a bunch of unrealistic, made-for-TV Rose Garden strategies with a bunch of thorns. Citizens who are fighting the flow of guns and drugs and violence in their neighborhoods and need more police on the ground where they live right now, will not support being short changed when it comes to public safety.”Last year, Cong. Rush introduced the “Conflict Resolution and Mediation Act and the Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity Act,” which employs a community-based remedial approach to addressing the issue of youth violence. He also introduced the Blair Holt's Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act that would establish a nationwide system for prohibiting unlicensed gun-ownership; and is a co-sponsor of the Youth Promise Act and Cong. Davis’ Second Chance Act which aims to provide new opportunities for previously incarcerated at-risk youth, and adults. On January 22 he will hold an emergency congressional summit to address disparities related to missing and abducted children and teens of color in Chicago.###
01.08.2011	CHICAGO –– This afternoon, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) released the following statement in response to the shocking events that occurred this morning in Tucson, Arizona, where U. S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ-08) was shot in the head, several other innocent bystanders were injured and, at the time of this statement two people are confirmed dead. "First and foremost, my thoughts and prayers go out to my esteemed colleague, U. S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, who we’ve just learned has, thankfully, survived the unprovoked attack on her this morning. Rep. Giffords and several others were shot and, at least, two were killed as Giffords and her staff were holding a ‘Congress on Your Corner’ constituent services forum in her district. Rep. Giffords was doing what her constituents elected her to do, this morning, but an assailant with a gun had other ideas. No one, and I mean, no public official should ever be deterred from doing his or her job in service to his or her constituents. And no one should ever have to worry about doing their job under the shadow or threat of violence. "This is a sad day in America where, once again, an unknown, aggrieved assailant with a gun has taken innocent lives, attempted to murder a United States official and, at least for now, has instilled fear and terror in the hearts and minds of millions of Americans and others of good will throughout our country. "I want Rep. Giffords and her family to know that my wife, Carolyn, and I like so many others across our nation will keep her and her family in our prayers. "We are also praying for the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives today—including a nine-year-old child and a federal judge—as well as for the swift recovery of all those who were injured. "What happened today in Tucson, Arizona should never happen in our nation. And in the days and weeks to come, I will continue to be vigilant in doing all I can to help stem the senseless wave of gun violence that, sadly, continues to hold too much power over our nation and its citizens." ###
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) introduced a House resolution that recognizes the 50th anniversary of the launch of the Peace Corps. In doing so he urged his colleagues to join in his efforts to have Congress designate March, 2011 as "Peace Corps Month" in the United States."In the days of my youth I, like many Americans, was an admirer of the leadership and vision of President John F. Kennedy. As I introduce this resolution, today, urging my colleagues to designate March, 2011, as "Peace Corps Month," I'm reminded of the words of our late President who expressed his vision this way, "How many of you, who are going to be doctors, are willing to spend your days in Ghana? Technicians or engineers, how many of you are willing to work in the Foreign Service and spend your lives traveling around the world?" It was these words and more, spoken by a, then, candidate Kennedy that helped inspire a nation to elect him as our 35th President in 1961. And while President Kennedy's life ended much too soon, his legacy of leadership and his call to Americans from all walks of life to extend their talents and gifts of leadership to remote places around the world has remained a constant source of inspiration for many generations of Americans, especially our youth," said Rush.He added, "I proudly introduce this resolution, today, and commit myself to do all I can to gain the support, from both sides of the aisle, to recognize the vision of President Kennedy and the effective, pioneering leadership of R. Sargent Shriver, the Founding Director of the Peace Corps, whose shared leadership and concern for their fellow man throughout the world continues to live on through the courageous and enduring work of the Peace Corps."Specifically, H. Res. 11 celebrates the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Peace Corps, commends the volunteers who have dedicated their lives to making a difference in the world, and supports designating the month of March, 2011 as "Peace Corps Month."The Peace Corps was established on March 1, 1961, by President Kennedy who appointed R. Sargent Shriver as its first director. Peace Corps volunteers live and work in communities, abroad, where they help the people of interested countries in meeting their need for trained men and women, promote a better understanding of Americans and, in turn, allow new generations of Americans to better understand diverse people and cultures of other nations.To date, nearly 200,000 Peace Corps volunteers have served in 139 countries. Currently, 60 percent of all Peace Corps volunteers are women, 17 percent are minorities, 93 percent are single and 84 percent are in their twenties. They work in a variety of sectors—35 percent in education, 22 percent in health and HIV/AIDS, 15 percent in business development, 14 percent in the environment, five percent in youth development, five percent in agriculture and four percent in other activities.It's worth noting that prominent members of both political parties have served in the Peace Corps including former U.S. Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CT), current U. S. Reps. Sam Farr (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Steve Driehaus (D-OH) and Thomas Petri (R-WI) and former U. S. Rep. Christopher Shays.Link to H. Res. 11:https://www.congress.gov/cgi-lis/bdquery/z?d112:H.RES.11: ###
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON –– Today, in our nation's capital, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) stood with his House colleagues, in two ceremonies, where he raised his right hand and took his 10th oath of office as a duly elected member of the U. S. House of Representatives serving Illinois' iconic 1st Congressional District. In doing so, Rush becomes the longest serving U. S. Representative, since the late William Dawson, to serve the people of this district. The 1st Congressional District serves a diverse population that ranges from the revitalized Bronzeville district to a southwestern community that extends to Orland Park. Last month, Rush was elected by his Democratic colleagues to serve as the Illinois representative on the Steering and Policy Committee and he is currently seeking support from his peers to serve as Ranking Member of the Communications, Technology, and Internet Subcommittee. Today, in two nationally televised ceremonies, Congressman Rush took an oath of office to honorably represent his constituents. At 9 a.m. EST, in the U. S. Capitol Visitor Center, Rush joined his Congressional Black Caucus colleagues in a ceremonial swearing in program hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. Later, at 2:15 p.m. EST, he was officially sworn in, on the House floor, by Speaker John Boehner. Prior to the swearing in, Rush warmly congratulated Speaker Boehner as he ascended to the Speaker's chair for the first time. While grateful for the continued opportunity to effectively serve his constituents, Rush offered this reflection on the challenges to come, "The ability to serve the people of Illinois' 1st Congressional District is a privilege, not a right, and it's a powerful gift that I take seriously as I once again renew my vows to diligently represent the needs and interests of the people of my district. At the same time, I'm mindful of the fact that now that my party is in the minority in the House, it is incumbent on all of us to elevate our voices and our advocacy efforts to a greater level to ensure that the needs and interests of the people we serve—in my community and in others like it across our nation—are not trampled upon by those who seek to turn the clock back to a bygone era. "I've served my constituents at times when our nation was thriving and at times when it was not. I've vigorously joined my House colleagues and President Obama, over the last two years, in supporting a range of issues that have kept important 'safety net' measures in place to ensure that those who live in the often ignored 'side streets' of our nation are not forgotten. "I want my constituents to know that I will continue to fight hard on every front to ensure that the progress we've made over the last few years is not trampled upon or reversed. As a Democratic leader, a legislator and an ordained minister, I want my constituents to know that I will vigorously do everything in my power to ensure that the hard fought reforms our party brought to bear in the last session of Congress are maintained and, even, strengthened in this session of Congress. "Today, I extend my hand of friendship and best wishes to Speaker Boehner and his leadership team as the challenges our nation confronts are enormous. At the same time, I want my constituents to know that when the time comes for our party to report to the people of our nation as to whose side we were on when it counted most, rest assured that I'm willing to be measured by the admonition expressed in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 25 verse 40, where the measurement of service to our fellow man was described as, "…whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me." ### NOTE: Three videos of today's ceremonies are posted to our website that depict the CBC processional of the Members to be sworn in, their oath of office and Congressman Rush greeting incoming Speaker John Boehner as he ascends to the Speaker's chair prior to taking his oath of office as Speaker of the House.
12.22.2010	WASHINGTON –– "The FCC's Open Internet Order will dramatically impact the lives of more than 230 million users of the Internet in this nation. It issues basic rules of the road to promote user access and establish consumer safeguards against discrimination and paid prioritization for fixed broadband access consumers. It also clears up some of the fog that prevents industry and investors from funding new innovative products and services, which both complement and could compete in the future against existing services and technologies. "However, because these rules are neither network nor technologically-neutral, they will disproportionately impact minority and other wireless broadband consumers, who pay more money with fewer dollars to subscribe for broadband Internet access service. Commissioner Clyburn has correctly pointed out that the two-framework system that has been adopted in this Order will invariably cost minorities more to stay connected and do things online, such as receive workforce training and health care advice, save money through online comparison shopping, register to vote and to acquire the resources and the "know-how" to start small communications and technology sector businesses of their own. I will be reaching out to the FCC, industry, public interest groups, and other stakeholders to discuss ways to blunt the negative impact that these rules will have on minority and other wireless broadband consumers. "As a senior member of the House Communications, Technology & Internet subcommittee, I would urge industry to think twice before challenging the FCC's balanced Order on appeal and would caution the incoming House Majority not to look to repeal these rules or frustrate the FCC in its implementation of them, as the agency's authority is more soundly anchored than it's been in the past. The FCC's findings and its decisions rest upon an administrative rulemaking record that spans 14 months of comments, the submission and review of countless staff and third-party policy reports, market studies, a "set-back" in the Comcast appellate ruling, and the floating of a "trial-balloon" in the FCC's Third Way proposal. All of this has culminated in the FCC's decision to engage in the balanced and measured approach that it took in adopting this Order. "I look forward to working with the FCC and others to discuss the imposition of Open Internet-type conditions on commercial broadband spectrum that is auctioned in the future and the composition and role of the FCC's new Open Internet Advisory Committee. I will be focused on how future business and technological developments will affect the protections to consumers and innovation that the Order establishes. Among other things, I will be considering how concentration of ownership in the wireless broadband access industry may affect minority consumers and whether new disruptive technologies and broadband-enabled devices are significantly loosening broadband Internet access chokepoints. I especially look forward to working with information technology interest groups supportive of an Open Internet to see how we can put the imagination they have shown in innovating new products and services towards improving flaws and closing unintended loopholes in the FCC's Order. "I want to thank Chairman Genachowski and Commissioners Clyburn and Copps for their time and effort in adopting this Order. Again, let me especially acknowledge Commissioner Clyburn for the additional thoughtfulness and consideration she displayed for the welfare of minority broadband consumers and communities of color in her public statement and remarks, and throughout her public service career." ###
12.17.2010	###
12.16.2010	WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today addressed a Capitol Hill policy forum hosted by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. Rush, who has served for the last four years as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection is seeking support from his Democratic colleagues to serve as the Ranking Member of the Communications, Technology and the Internet Subcommittee in the 112th Congress. A complete transcript of his remarks is posted below. “Good afternoon. Thank you so much, Dr. Turner-Lee for that warm introduction. I can’t tell you, Ralph how wonderful it is to see and to be with you and the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies at today’s very timely event, Blackout: The Impact of the Digital Age on the Broadcast Media. “Although the title of today’s event cleverly alludes to African Americans, most of the issues that both panels are discussing today significantly affect black, brown, red, yellow, white ethnics, and non-ethnic whites and collectives of minority and ethnic groups, and communities, all just the same. Thanks, especially, to my supporters from the South Side of Chicago and in the Southwest Chicago suburbs as well as my kindred souls and friends around the country who want so desperately to see minorities and small businesses fare better than they are currently. They are the ones who are directly responsible for ensuring that I can stand in front of you today. “The Joint Center has been one of the nation’s pre-eminent think tanks and public research and policy organizations—not just with respect to societal, economic, and domestic issues that are of great concern to African-Americans. But, in reality, many of these same issues impact all Americans—those who are underserved in terms of broadband and health care delivery, those who have no, or little, political voice, those who are chronically under-employed in our tight labor market, and those who are worse off in terms of their personal net worth and future financial security as compared to their parents and, even, their grandparents only one to several generations ago. “Let me take a moment, here, to digress from my prepared remarks to address the issue of network neutrality. I’m not someone who fears confronting obvious issues and so, I’d like to share with you some of what’s on my mind regarding the subject. The thing that really concerns me about the issue of net neutrality is not so much the issue itself as I do believe in equal access for everyone who uses the Internet but, rather, it reminds me of one of those issues that largely misses the point of the people I serve and, in fact, live with each and every day in my community. You know, when I was a child, I grew up watching a lot of old movies where you had these classic battles between King Kong and Godzilla. Do you remember those? And of course you know what happened between these two goliaths when they battled each other, right? While each of these giants was wailing away at one another, knocking each other down, tearing down telephone lines and ripping up infrastructure, demolishing cars, and rolling around on top of buildings and people, guess what happened? The people, you know, the little guys, they got squashed like bugs under their feet because they were the innocent bystanders whose interests and, in fact, their very lives, were crushed in the epic battle between those two titans. When King Kong and Godzilla were battling each other they could have cared less about the little guys who got caught in their path. “That’s what issues like net neutrality mean to me. Even though this issue has been framed in terms of broadband access for poor and minority people to attract people like me to their audience and to add potency to their arguments, the real battle has more to do with which giant can topple or get the best of the other. It annoys me when people who purport to represent people of color start talking about low-income, or poor people, as if they intimately know about their problems and challenges. Unlike those people, I do know and understand. “Large companies who fund and support some of these groups and claim to know my community and its needs remind me of King Kong and Godzilla because all they do is fight one another over issues that bear no relationship to the lives of the people I serve. The house that I live in is next door to public housing. No one can tell me about poor people because poor people are my neighbors and I know how they live. Their major concerns are not about broadband deployment or access since their homes and housing units are already heavily served by cable, telephone, and other competitors. These firms know that these segments of the population are a lucrative market for them inasmuch as people and families with less disposable income cannot afford to take a ‘night out on the town’ or engage in many other, more costly forms of entertainment outside of their homes. Their Internet experience is very different than those who represent the King Kongs and Goliaths of our national broadband debate. “As one of the most senior Democrats who sits on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and one of only five senior Democrats assigned to the Communications, Technology and Internet subcommittee (commonly referred to as the CT&I subcommittee), I have been privileged to listen to stakeholders, formulate policy, and draft legislation that affects access by all Americans to media offerings and communications services, including broadband access to the Internet. “You know, as I recount my time on the CT&I subcommittee, I vividly remember an incident that occurred in one of my subcommittee hearings. It was when the flurry of congressional activity around network neutrality was at its height. A dynamic former commissioner from the Florida Public Service Commission, Ms. Julia Johnson, who happens to be an African-American woman with many years of experience in the realm of telecommunications and information technology, came to testify to share her first-hand experiences and opinions regarding the need for net neutrality laws. As she proceeded to testify, she took some issue with the necessity of net neutrality as an appropriate solution. I will never forget how one of my colleagues had the nerve to rudely interrupt her and ask her who paid for her trip to Washington. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, in that moment the spirit of that question solidified in my mind the whole elitist and entitlement mindset with respect to the broadband and the Internet. Many of the people I encounter in some of the leading special interest groups could care less about the needs of poor people and are much more focused on working to ensure that they shut down reasonable and intelligent voices of dissent. “Needless to say I was outraged by the question put to Ms. Johnson. I interrupted her before she could respond and told her not to answer that question because no one else had been asked about their travel arrangements. Trust me, that question made me snap back to my Black Panther days because of the sheer arrogance and paternalism that question exhibited. “I also have to share with you more instances of disappointment and frustration that I felt over the years under the previous leadership of former FCC Chairman Kevin Martin. I talked to Kevin publicly and privately on numerous occasions, and I kept pressing him about what the Bush Administration would do to enhance minority participation in the development of broadband. And you know what he kept telling me? He’d say, “Bobby, I promise I’m going to include your concerns as part of my agenda.” Martin never held to his promises, and under his leadership minorities continued to suffer staggering losses in ownership of FCC broadcasting licenses and spectrum auctions were not designed in a way to increase the odds for minorities to taste some success at winning some of the auctioned spectrum licenses. As a matter of fact, if any of you see or talk to Kevin Martin, tell him I’d still like to talk to him. “During the time I have left on this wonderful platform, let’s envision how we can get out of this wilderness and to a promised land. A promised land where we can partner with like-minded interests—and, possibly, with some non like-minded groups who may want different ends but are willing to employ the same means to get to where they are going. I can imagine a promised land where we undertake methodic but aggressive actions to level some of the most glaring disparities that exist between African Americans, other minorities and their white counterparts. “In order to get to that promised place, I believe it is imperative for us to shift the focus of the current policy discourse and frameworks. Up until now, Congress, the Federal Communications Commission, Administration agencies, and many advocacy organizations that purport to speak for communities of color have focused most of their time and resources on the sole, albeit important proposition that minorities must be treated fairly as consumers and subscribers of communications and technology services. “I submit that this is only one part of the equation. A big factor in that equation is missing. “In order to achieve the desired outcomes of inclusion, affordability, ubiquitous access to broadband services and more true universal service reform for the unserved and underserved in the most enduring fashion possible, the door to ownership has to swing open far more widely than where it’s perched today. “That’s just one more reason why I strongly believe we’ve got to get some momentum going behind the notion that minority and truly small businesses––not front groups or shams––should become owners, executives, and high ranking managers of the companies that hold broadcasting (and even satellite) licenses, and that bid, successfully, at future auctions to use the hundreds of megahertz of spectrum that will be inevitably released and reallocated for new uses. “Why do I say this? I say it simply because these are the people, in the positions of power, who will decide where to deploy service, how much it will cost, what those service offerings will consist of, who its employees are, which employees will get passed over or will receive sufficient training so that they are promotable and can develop skills that are transferrable and, even, portable across diverse sectors and industries. “At times, I am amazed at the manner in which considerably-sized and nimble, emerging communications and media businesses have reinvented themselves or tapped into new, disruptive technologies to become influential players practically overnight in the communications and technology ecosystems. I am wide-eyed at the thought that innovative and ingenious network engineers and software developers, who form start-ups and work for these companies as they squeeze ever increasing amounts of bandwidth out of finite spectrum and physical plant at their disposal. “I am astounded at how these facilities can support the carriage and transmission of exabytes and zettabytes of data packets, translating them into conversations, video, and messaging services among millions of network subscribers and media and multi-media platform listeners and users. But I am not so dazzled or blinded by the science to see that minorities are grossly underrepresented in these industries as owners, executives, and high ranking managers. “As I close my remarks, I implore you to seize the day, to think out loud and outside the box, and never forget that I will be here, in Congress, fighting alongside and with you to open that door as wide as it should open, which isn’t a quarter of the way, half, or three-quarters, but all the way! “Thank you very much.” ### WASHINGTON, D.C. – December 16, 2010 –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) delivered a policy address to an audience assembled by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies entitled, “Blackout”: The Impact of the Digital Age on the Broadcast Media” in the U. S. Capitol Visitor Center. Shown, here, at the podium Rush makes an emphatic point to a distinguished group of digital media and policy experts (L-R) David Honig, Esq., President and Executive Director, Minority Media and Telecommunications Council; Thomas J. Larson, Esq., Vice President, Legal and Public Affairs, Mediacom Communications Corporation; Brent A. Wilkes, National Executive Director, League of United Latin American Citizens; James L. Winston, Esq., Executive Director and General Counsel, National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters; Michael Calabrese, Esq., Senior Research Fellow and Director, Wireless Future Program, New America Foundation; and Kimberly Marcus, Executive Director, Public Policy Initiative, Rainbow/PUSH Coalition.
12.15.2010	{WASHINGTON –– This afternoon, the U. S. House of Representatives cast an historic vote that seeks to remove the artificial barrier of sexual orientation as a means of discrimination by those who choose to serve in the United States military. In a proud, affirmative "yes" vote, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) lent his voice and his vote in support of H.R. 2965, the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010. Today's 250 to 175 vote marks another major step forward in removing sexual orientation as a source of discrimination with respect to military service. In his statement for the record, in part Rep. Rush said, "This language, Madame Speaker, is identical to the language this body passed in May as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. Since that time, a legislative repeal of this law has become both more necessary and more proper. It's more necessary because the courts have made it clear that they will not stand idly by while the United States continues to discriminate against it service members. "As Secretary Gates explained, recently, a legislative repeal is the only way to right this wrong as it allows the new policy to properly be implemented "in a thoughtful and careful way" versus the immediacy of a legislative mandate as was seen earlier this year."Madame Speaker, now, more than ever, it's important to remember that now is always the right time to do what is right…I close with a statement from President George H. W. Bush's Assistant Secretary of Defense,Lawrence Korb. In February of this year, Mr. Korb was asked, "should gays serve openly in the military?" His reply, Madame Speaker, was "Not only is it the right thing to do, it will actually increase our security in the long run…" Madame Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill." Congressman Rush, who served honorably in the U. S. Army in his youth, cast his "yes" vote in support of H.R. 2965 because it was the right thing to do and because his view is supported by a wide range of respected policy data including the following: The Department of Defense survey of service members on the repeal of DADT, released last month, also had striking results. Seventy (70) percent of service members believe that serving beside an openly gay colleague would have positive, mixed or no effect on unit cohesion. And of the troops who believe that they have already worked with a gay service member, an overwhelming 92 percent believe that doing so was a very good, good, or neutral experience. The DOD survey also concluded that nations including the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Germany, Italy, and Israel have integrated openly gay troops "with little or no disruption." In urging Congress to quickly enact the repeal of DADT, Secretary Gates has emphasized, "Given the present circumstances, those that choose not to act legislatively are rolling the dice that this policy will not be abruptly overturned by the courts." Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen also strongly supports the repeal of DADT. Mullen testified before Congress, "I cannot escape being troubled by the fact that we have in place a policy which forces young men and women to lie about who they are in order to defend their fellow citizens; to me, it comes down to integrity, theirs as individuals and ours as an institution."} ###
12.09.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed his appreciation for the letter of support from the Ministerial Alliance Against the Digital Divide (MAADD) who, on Tuesday, delivered their 10-page communication to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in praise of Rush’s leadership and track record of service as he seeks to serve as the Ranking Member of the Communications, Technology and the Internet subcommittee in the 112th session of Congress. In part, their letter said this, "MAADD works through our church communities to build grassroots networks that engage in activism to promote solutions that build a better tomorrow. Our existing minister network has a reach of over 350,000 people and we currently have chapters in six states…From his excellent track record on consumer issues and technology policy to his legislative achievements, Congressman Rush has been a staunch advocate for the rights of the underserved and has worked to extend the benefit of technology to these communities. During his tenure, Congressman Rush has had to tackle many difficult issues, yet he has always listened to the needs of his community and acted on those interests accordingly…MAADD is confident that if Congressman Rush is chosen as the ranking member of the CT&I subcommittee he will be able to work with his counterparts across the aisle to craft legislative solutions that will ensure consumer protection standards and help bridge the digital divide by extending the many benefits of broadband to those in need." In a November 12 letter to his Democratic House colleagues, Rush shared these thoughts about his motivations for seeking the Ranking Member position, "My involvement and interest in CT&I’s activities and its jurisdiction have not waned nor have they wavered during my entire tenure on the Energy and Commerce Committee. Rather, they have grown deeply over the years as traditional and emerging communications providers seek to grow their domestic and global markets, harness underdeveloped spectrum in licensed and unlicensed spectrum bands, and export more of their products, services and technologies to foreign markets. It is vitally important that we have leadership at the helm of this subcommittee which is strong, effective and knowledgeable about the impact that future legislation and policy will have in the marketplace." ### NOTE: Here's a link to the 10-page letter to Speaker Pelosi from MAADD:
12.09.2010	WASHINGTON -- In an historic, late night vote last night, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) cast an historic "yes" vote in support of the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act and, in so doing, this legislation moved another major step forward on its path to become the law of the land. "For a whole generation of promising, young immigrants who were brought to this country at a very young age, the DREAM Act represents this generation’s most important march towards justice in their young lives," said Rush. "I proudly support the DREAM Act as it represents a fundamental value of basic fairness for millions of young people who were brought to this country through no choice of their own. Nevertheless, these young people, despite the odds and some pushback by cynics in our country, have worked hard, played by the rules and have demonstrated great promise through their performance in school and by representing the fulfillment of the American Dream in every way that matters. In many ways, the young people who will have a path to citizenship, thanks to this legislation, will have a greater appreciation for what it means to be American simply because they’ve had to work so hard to achieve what so many natural born citizens often take for granted. "I pledge my continued vigilance in support of those national leaders and organizations who are continuing to press in support of the DREAM Act until one day soon this legislation finds its way to our President’s desk." In a late Wednesday evening vote, the House voted 216 to 198 in support of a motion to concur in support of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 5281, the DREAM Act. Additional information on the DREAM Act includes the following: The DREAM Act provides a path to citizenship for children who were brought to this country by no choice of their own. Many of these children do not even realize they are "illegal" until years after they come to the United States. This is the only country they’ve ever called home. Now they live in fear of deportation to a country where they may not have any family or any connection. Young people must meet the DREAM Act’s high standards to earn legal status, and work through a lengthy process that includes graduating from high school, being of good moral character, passing background tests, and continuing their education at college or in the military. This is not amnesty. Eligibility requirements for legal status under the DREAM Act are strict and legal status must be earned. Children must be physically present in the United States for at least five consecutive years prior to the date of enactment of the law. This will not be a magnet for more illegal immigration. The DREAM Act is common sense legislation drafted by both Republicans and Democrats. Seventy percent of likely voters of all political stripes support the DREAM Act. ###
12.08.2010	WASHINGTON –– In the waning days of the 111th Congress, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) is urging his House colleagues to join him in support of H.R. 6496, legislation that requires regular reports to Congress on the management of Arlington National Cemetery. This bill is the House counterpart to bipartisan legislation that favorably advanced through the U. S. Senate on December 4. "As someone who represents a district where hundreds of families and loved ones have been violated due to the obscene level of mismanagement and possible criminal activity that took place at Burr Oak Cemetery, I fully understand the sentiments felt by the families and loved ones of our nation's fallen soldiers. Earlier this year, our nation was shocked to learn of the appalling circumstances surrounding the flagrant lack of care and due diligence over the remains of our nation's fallen soldiers that are buried at Arlington National Cemetery. These families, like far too many others across our nation, have had to work through a second wave of grief and loss over the deplorable circumstances that took place at Arlington including an instance where eight sets of remains were buried in a single grave. No family in America should have to endure such a violation especially those whose loved ones have paid the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. "While I continue to work to seek redress for my constituents, I take great pride in the fact that we have an opportunity to put an important level of much needed oversight at Arlington National Cemetery as reflected in the legislation I urge my colleagues to support in the remaining days of this Congress. This legislation reflects the concerted efforts my staff and I have made to ensure that there is a baseline level of protection surrounding the final resting place of our nation's fallen soldiers. "As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, I have learned of far too many instances of cemetery mismanagement like those that at Burr Oak, Arlington National Cemetery and dozens of others over the years. Shortly after the release of the Army Inspector General's report, released in June of this year, I met with the Inspector General's office and later, thanks to the generosity of the Armed Services Committee, participated in their oversight hearing on this issue. "While we have yet to get to a set of shared, bottom line conclusions about what took place at Arlington National Cemetery, this legislation provides an immediate level of Congressional oversight that these soldiers' families and our nation's taxpayers have a right to expect. "I urge every member of the House to stand in support of this common sense legislation. It's the least we can do to begin to reassure the public that our nation's most revered national cemetery is being managed in a professional manner that is worthy of the soldiers who have made the ultimate sacrifice for all of us." ###
12.08.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed his gratitude to the five-member executive leadership team of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) who, in a letter on Monday, conveyed to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi their strong endorsement of his bid to serve as Ranking Member of the Communications, Technology and the Internet subcommittee in the 112th Congress. In their letter to the Speaker, CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), First Vice Chair Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), Second Vice Chair Donna Christensen (D-VI), Secretary G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Whip Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), these leaders said the following in its entirety, "We are writing to express our unwavering and unconditional support for our colleague, Rep. Bobby L. Rush to be the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet (CT&I). "It is highly probable that he will be the most senior Democrat on the subcommittee in the 112th Congress. His distinguished service as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection during the 110-111th Congresses mandates that he be accorded the priority and treatment he justly deserves throughout this entire process. "Bobby L. Rush has used each and every one of the 18 years he has served in the Congress to build a record of achievement on issues important to all Americans, and especially communities of color. For the last 16 years, Rep. Rush has served on an uninterrupted basis as an engaged, talented, and outspoken Member of the Telecom and Finance and CT&I subcommittees. "Further, Rep. Rush has a highly distinguished record of results that is easily proven by his recent successes in helping guide more than a dozen bills out of the Committee on Energy and Commerce from 2007-2010—including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act and the Wall Street Reform Act. Results such as these could not be achieved by a follower, only by a leader—and that sums up exactly who Rep. Rush is."Provided that he is selected for the Ranking Member position on CT&I, Rep. Rush would become the first African-American to hold that position in the entire history of the U. S. House of Representatives. "As a testament to his contributions to communities of color and the hallowed Constitutional ideal of equality for all, Rep. Rush's candidacy has been supported by 19 national civil rights organizations, including the NAACP, NAFEO, NBCSL, and the National Urban League. "It should go without saying that the constituencies represented by these organizations have a direct stake in the outcome of the Democratic Caucus's selections and are integral to the political fortunes of our national, state and local Democratic parties and candidates. "For these important reasons and others that are too numerous to list in this letter, we respectfully request that you join us in supporting Bobby L. Rush as the Ranking Democratic Member on the CT&I Subcommittee. Thank you for your consideration. ### NOTE: Here's a link to a pdf copy of the CBC letter to Speaker Pelosi:
12.06.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) released the following statement expressing his gratitude that his peers elected him to serve on the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in the 112th Congress. "I am humbled by the overwhelming show of support by my peers who selected me to serve as the Illinois representative of the Steering and Policy committee for House Democrats," said Rush who is completing four years of effective service as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection."Next year, the House of Representatives comes back to session in the minority. My commitment to my colleagues and to the constituents I serve in Illinois’ 1st Congressional District is to continue to voice the concerns and represent the interests of low-income communities to Republicans while continuing to work effectively to ensure that these interests are not left on the wayside in the mad dash to serve the narrow interests of those who spent unprecedented levels of resources to achieve their goals last November. "As a member of this influential House policy committee, I will remain focused on those strategies and tactics that help improve the lives of the least of these in our nation while also working to open doors of economic opportunity to the growing small business and entrepreneurial class that continues to expand within key sectors of our economy especially among African Americans, women and other communities of color." As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection in the 110th and 111th sessions of Congress, Chairman Rush wrote and helped shepherd into final passage important pieces of legislation including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, key provisions in the Affordable Care Health Act that included reductions in prescriptions drug benefits for low-income Americans and serving as a Speaker-appointed conferee on the reconciliation process prior to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. ###
12.02.2010	WASHINGTON –– “Good morning. “We are pleased to welcome into our midst today seven witnesses. They have graciously offered to share their views with our Subcommittee about the feasibility of a legislated ‘Do-Not-Track’ mechanism, and how technological solutions to privacy perils and pitfalls could augment a comprehensive, national privacy framework. “Through such a mechanism, consumers could advise would-be trackers unambiguously and persistently that they do not wish to be followed by digital snoopers and spies across web sites and their various fixed and mobile computing devices. “More than two years ago, I heard testimony as Chairman of this Subcommittee from Ms. Lois Gresham, the FTC’s Associate Director of the Division of Marketing Practices. Ms. Gresham spoke about the FTC’s successes in rooting out deceptive and abusive telemarketing acts and practices through the Do-Not-Call Registry. “From Fiscal Years 2003 through 2007, more than 145 million telephone numbers had been entered into the Do-Not-Call registry. Over the same period, approximately $80 million in fees had been collected from a base of over 18,000 unique entities, who accessed data from the Registry. “As part of that opt-out and enforcement regimen, the FTC stood prepared to initiate cases under its Telecommunications Sales Rule to obtain temporary and permanent injunctions against ongoing violations, secure orders for more than half a billion dollars in consumer restitution, and refer civil penalty actions to the Department of Justice. “Almost a year before Associate Director Gresham’s 2010 testimony, and following two days of FTC town-hall meetings on online behavioral tracking in the fall of 2007, the Consumer Federation of America and other privacy groups noted that self-regulatory initiatives devised by industry had failed. “One of those groups, the Consumer Federation of America, which happens to be represented today by Ms. Susan Grant, called upon the FTC back then, to implement a one-stop, opt-out for online tracking, similar to the agency’s successful Do-Not-Call registry. “As the end of this second session of the 111th Congress quickly approaches, it would appear that we have come full circle with the FTC’s endorsement of a “Do-Not-Track” mechanism, released just yesterday in its 122-page preliminary staff report. The title of that draft report is Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change. “Being the last hearing of this Subcommittee that I will chair in this Congress, please allow me to reflect briefly on some of the major accomplishments and achievements of the Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection subcommittee over the 110th and the 111th Congresses. “With the assistance of my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, i have convened hearings, markups, and helped to guide successfully more than a dozen bills out of the full committee – including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act and the Wall Street Reform Act. “Our subcommittee was also very active in conducting oversight of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in the wake of massive recalls of unsafe automobiles. We also asked questions at hearings about the effects of the disastrous Macondo oil well spill on the Gulf-area tourism and travel industry and the health effects of formaldehyde on purchasers of post-Katrina trailers. “I am immensely proud of the collaboration that has existed between this Subcommittee and the Communications, Technology and Internet (CT&I) subcommittee, currently led by my friend, Chairman Boucher. “In working closely with the CT&I Subcommittee to conduct oversight and to draft legislation, our two subcommittees held six joint hearings during the 111th Congress on a range of public safety and consumer protection topics, including “texting while driving” and online and offline privacy. “I do believe that the Record will show that this Subcommittee was highly productive and effective, accomplishing so much in a relatively short amount of time. “With that, I would once again thank the witnesses for coming in this morning and will yield back the balance of my time.” ###
12.01.2010	WASHINGTON –– “Today’s announcement by the Federal Communications Commission that it will propose rules at its December 2010 meeting to preserve an open Internet for all broadband consumers was not without controversy or suspense, but it is the right decision at this time. “The time is now for the Federal government to do more in aligning our nation’s laws and rules governing broadband access with critical national goals. Their actions should include, but not be limited to, helping more Americans find good-paying jobs and training programs, expanding the scale, scope and reach of industry and commerce, cultivating more entrepreneurial activity among all Americans, and empowering communities and individuals to connect online more broadly than ever before with their peers. “I am hopeful that the leaders of the 112th Congress will work with those of us on the other side of the aisle to continue the momentum we’ve gained in this session of Congress. I am committed to working to help the FCC realize its vision of achieving our shared national goals and I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the same.” ###
11.21.2010	CHICAGO –Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) reacted with sadness and shock at the news of the death of Dr. Margaret Burroughs, the founder of the nation’s largest African-American museum, who apparently died this morning at the age of 93. He said the woman who had been a "keeper of history" has joined the ancestors and she leaves behind a formidable imprint of struggle, triumph and hope."Words cannot express what I feel on the passing of Dr. Margaret Burroughs, the founder of the Dusable Museum of African-American History," Rep. Rush said. "She was a keeper of history, a historian for a lost and often disregarded people, and a champion for those whose voices often go unheard."Over the years I have appropriated nearly a million dollars to the DuSable institution because it is just that important—it is an important landmark in American history," he continued. "They say that those who cannot remember history are bound to repeat it. Dr. Burroughs, a long-time public servant, made sure that so many never made the mistakes of the past. She was a champion and she leaves a formidable imprint of struggle, triumph and hope."I think I’m in shock because it seems we are losing so many of our ancient landmarks," Rush said recalling the recent passing of gospel great Albertina Walker and Bishop Arthur M. Brazier. "It has been said that history is the novel by which the people are the author, and Dr. Burroughs wrote volumes. She will be sorely missed, but her work lives on."Rush, who celebrates his 64th birthday on November 23, will be available for interview at 1:30 PM at Beloved Church, where he pastors, at 6430 S. Harvard.###
11.18.2010	WASHINGTON -- In a hand-delivered letter, this afternoon, to Democratic and Republican members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush sent a clear, urgent message to his colleagues to unanimously reject rumored attempts to move the energy portfolio from the Energy and Commerce Committee to the Natural Resources Committee. Rush has served on this committee since the 104th session of Congress (1995-1997) and, currently, is Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. Rush’s personal communication to all members of the full Energy and Commerce Committee read as follows: "Dear Colleague: "After reading the Roll Call article (Nov. 17th) detailing the attempted power-grab by the expected Chairman-elect of the Natural Resources Committee to strip the Energy and Commerce Committee of one of its most important areas of jurisdiction, I was alarmed and astonished. The article, entitled "Hastings Wants Energy Portfolio for Natural Resources," caused me great apprehension as this maneuvering would strip our committee, which many of us have constructively worked together on for many years, of its primary area of jurisdiction—national energy policy. "You may remember a similar, successful attempt to strip our committee of its financial services portfolio in the 107th Congress. This time, however, as Members of the Committee, it is imperative that we all join together in a bipartisan manner to emphatically and forcefully reject this most recent attempt to erode our authority. This is not a Democrat or Republican issue but, rather, an issue of overreach by other committee heads for their own selfish purposes. I implore all Energy and Commerce Committee members to stand united and make it known that, in no uncertain terms, we will not allow this to happen. "We must not permit the natural process of selecting new leadership on our committee to be viewed as an opportunity to strip our committee of its responsibilities and jurisdictional authority. "I urge all Members to stand with me and make our position known to leadership on both sides of the aisle. Thank you for your time and consideration on this most important issue and I look forward to speaking with you promptly on this matter." Sincerely, Bobby L. RushMember of Congress ### NOTE: Here's a link to the Roll Call story by Jackie Kucinich: https://www.rollcall.com/news/-200723-1.html
11.12.2010	CHICAGO - Earlier this afternoon, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush alerted his House Democratic colleagues of his interest in serving as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet (CTI) in the 112th session of Congress. In his communication with Members, Rush, who currently serves as the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, cited his years of service on the Energy and Commerce Committee as well as his legislative track record which includes playing a leading role as a member of the CTI in helping to move major pieces of legislation into law under both Democratic and Republican Administrations. In its entirety, Chairman Rush's letter to his colleagues read as follows: "Congratulations on your re-election and return to the U. S. House of Representatives. Despite the difficulties and challenges that we faced leading up to and through Election Day, I know personally of the hard work, intensive efforts, and costly sacrifices that Democrats put forth and made in the 111th Congress. "I am writing this letter to inform you that I will be seeking to serve as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet (CTI) in the 112th Congress. As you may be aware, I have been extremely active as a Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee since gaining membership to the committee in the 104th Congress (1995-1997). As a Member, then, of the Telecommunications and Finance subcommittee I immersed myself in communications and technology policy, which helped me to develop a keen understanding of the intricacies of the communications and media marketplaces. "It was also in that term that the Democratic House leadership selected me as an Energy and Commerce Committee conferee on the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to help reconcile differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. "My involvement and interest in CTI's activities and its jurisdiction have not waned nor have they wavered during my entire tenure on the Energy and Commerce Committee. Rather, they have grown deeply over the years as traditional and emerging communications providers seek to grow their domestic and global markets, harness underdeveloped spectrum in licensed and unlicensed spectrum bands, and export more of their products, services and technologies to foreign markets. It is vitally important that we have leadership at the helm of this subcommittee which is strong, effective and knowledgeable about the impact that future legislation and policy will have in the marketplace. "For the past two sessions of Congress, I have served ably as your Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection (CTCP), having convened hearings and markups and successfully guided more than a dozen bills out of full committee--including two that became laws, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act and the Wall Street Reform Act. Additionally, I am proud of the collaboration between CTCP and the CTI subcommittee, as led by Chairman Boucher. In working closely with the CTI Subcommittee and its members to conduct oversight and draft legislation, the CTCP and CTI subcommittees held six joint hearings during the 111th Congress on public safety and consumer protection topics, including "texting while driving" and online and offline privacy. These interactions have afforded me additional insights into CTI's functioning, how the Subcommittee is perceived by stakeholders, and under what conditions CTI is more likely to be an effective legislating body. "The list of issues awaiting CTI's consideration and hoped for resolution in the 112th Congress is extensive. It is my sincere belief that in balancing the respective interests of our constituents, industry, public interest groups, and other stakeholders, we can appreciably contribute to America's prosperity as we work to stimulate the domestic economy, thereby creating good jobs for our nation's citizenry. In closing, I respectfully request your support to become your Ranking Member of the CTI Subcommittee and I look forward to tackling these issues and working with each of you on these matters in the 112th Congress." ###
11.10.2010	CHICAGO –Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) has asked Chicago Police Department Superintendent Jody Weis what he has done over the last 12 months to find the killer of 12-year-old Jahmeshia Conner. On Saturday, November 13th at 11 a.m. he will lead a march and prayer vigil in commemoration of the one-year anniversary of the disappearance of the child from a bus stop in Englewood. He will be joined by community leaders and the child's family.Marchers will walk from 63rd and Racine to 63rd and Ashland, the last known route the Conner child took before she vanished. A news conference will be held near the location where the girl was found at 6400 S. Marshfield.In a strongly worded letter to Weis, Rep. Rush accused the police department of being "silent" noting, "The child's family and the community cannot find closure or comfort until someone is brought to justice," he said. "Since the Chicago Police Department has been virtually silent on this case, I am requesting a full report on what the CPD has done over the past 12 months to find the killer of this young girl."Conner, a fifth-grader at O'Toole Elementary School, was reported missing by her mother on Sunday, November 15, 2009, and despite pleas from the family to the contrary the police classified her as a runaway and did not issue an Amber Alert. The system would have triggered valuable media attention in the case. The girl was found dead two weeks later in an alley one block from her home. Authorities later said she had been raped and strangled. No one has been arrested and charged with the crime."Who killed Jahmeshia Conner? She was somebody's child," Rep. Rush wrote. "Let us do all we can to bring justice to her memory."Download the Congressman's letter###
11.10.2010	CHICAGO –– "Tomorrow, as our nation takes time to acknowledge the many sacrifices of our veterans and their families, my family and I will likewise pause to pay tribute to the lives given and the sacrifices that have been made by those who serve in our armed forces. "As a veteran of the U. S. Army, Veterans Day is not just any other holiday. It's a day to reflect on the very real sacrifices that so many of our men and women—from all faiths and from all walks of life—pay each and every day in service to our country. As a member of Congress, I have consistently voted to ensure that the needs and interests of our veterans remain front and center in the policy priorities of the federal government. "Despite the economic challenges our country faces, the needs of veterans and their families should never be pushed to the back burner. After nine years of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, thousands of veterans are returning home and they deserve the full support of those of us on Capitol Hill who are able to help ensure that the quality of their lives are not only restored but enhanced given the depth of their service and commitment to our nation. I am proud that my consistent support of the needs and interests of veterans and their families has been recognized by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America through their annual Action Fund Report Card. "As the 112th Congress convenes in January, I want veterans to know that I will continue to be vigilant in working to ensure that their interests remain a priority. They've certainly earned it." ###
11.05.2010	WHO: Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), former U.S. Senator Carol Moseley Braun, corporate officials from various utility companies, including People’s Gas, ComEd, and Nicor, hundreds of home owners and renters, and many others WHAT: Will speak to the media regarding his efforts to help cash-strapped consumers reduce energy bills and to also obtain rental assistance at a special fair. He will also update the media on recent developments regarding an alleged lawsuit filed against him by New City Bank. In addition, former U.S. Senator Carol Mosley Braun, who is considering a run for Chicago mayor, will also be in attendance. WHEN: Saturday, November 6, 2010 11 AM (Energy Assistance Fair runs 10 AM to 4 PM and is open to public) WHERE: Kennedy King College – Great Hall 6301 S. Halsted; U Building (North side of 63rd Street), Chicago WHY: As the recession takes its toll on American families, utility companies say a growing number of people in Illinois are failing behind on their electric and gas bills and are struggling with well as their mortgages or rent. In response, Rep. Rush hosts annual energy assistance fairs where scores of citizens can apply for grants to assist with payment or the reconnection of service and also receive cost-saving tips on how to reduce their utility bills. This year Chicago renters can also receive up to $900 in rental assistance. In addition, this week the congressman was puzzled to learn New City Bank had reportedly filed an erroneous lawsuit against alleging he was in default for failure to pay a $2, 172 Cook County property tax. ###
11.04.2010	CHICAGO – The office of Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement regarding today's Sun-Times article on an alleged lawsuit filed by New City Bank. This amended statement, though given to the reporter after being reached for comment after 8 PM Wednesday, read in part: "This is the first time the Congressman has heard of this matter having been informed of this by the Chicago Sun-Times [on Wednesday night]. Neither he nor his attorney has been served with legal documents of any kind as it pertains to New City Bank and his properties. The facts as presented by the Sun-Times are puzzling. However, we know that the mortgages on both properties are totally current and that whatever the case may be with the property taxes the congressman was not aware of any dire situation by Cook County. He will get to the bottom of this matter at the start of business [today.] "Unlike many Americans who cannot pay their mortgages the congressman's payments are current and up-to-date. However, this story highlights the escalating problem that millions of Americans face everyday—the callous and often times, extreme, non-negotiable practices of some banks that have contributed to millions of families in Chicago and the nation losing their homes. This story comes at a time when federal agencies are investigating banks' foreclosure-documentation process after some financial institutions indicated they would suspend or review foreclosures because of unethical practices." ###
11.03.2010	CHICAGO - As the recession continues, utility companies say a growing number of Illinois families are falling behind on their electric, gas and water bills. In response, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will provide much-needed utility relief during district-wide energy assistance fairs where citizens can apply for grants to assist with bill payment or the reconnection of service. Rep. Rush's free "Energy Assistance Fairs” will be held on Saturday, November 6, from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. in the Great Hall at Kennedy King College, 6350 S. Stewart and for suburban residents on Saturday, November 13 at the Dwight D. Eisenhower High School, 12700 S. Sacramento Ave., in Blue Island. "Individuals on limited incomes, especially seniors and working class families, are making tough choices in order to pay their utility bills. In this economy, people need help to afford basic necessities," said Rep. Rush, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "We don't want people having to decide between lights and food or gas and medicine. This fair is an annual event for the purpose of bringing relief to our citizens." To apply for assistance residents must bring proof of household income or supplemental assistance, original social security cards for all household members, current electric and gas bills and other information such as leases agreements, landlord contact information and proof of address. Homeowners are required to provide proof of ownership in order to receive emergency furnace repair services. This year the fair will include rental assistance and mortgage crisis counseling; and news/talk radio station WVON will broadcast live from the venue. For more information contact Thyatiria Towns in Rep. Rush's District Office at 773-224-6500 or visit www.house.gov/rush for additional details. ###
10.22.2010	CHICAGO -- "Our city and our nation has lost a giant man of faith, today, as I learned of the passing of Bishop Arthur M. Brazier, the Pastor Emeritus of the Apostolic Church of God. "Bishop Brazier was my mentor in the ministry, political advisor and lifelong friend. "We shared each other’s joys and pains, trials and triumphs as we followed the course of life that God put before us. Bishop Brazier was a national, and international, man of faith whose impact far exceeds the confines of the City of Chicago that he loved so much. I have been singularly proud, for nearly two decades, to serve as the Congressional representative for the church he first began to lead in 1960. We worked together on dozens of projects and public policy initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life for the people of Chicago, especially those in the Woodlawn community where his church is based. "Brazier repeatedly earned his place in the pantheon of leading men and women in the church—from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to my friend, the late Dr. Albertina Walker, to so many others whose legacy of service to Christ, their fellow man and to their community will endure for generations. As a trusted confidant to the late Chicago Mayor Harold Washington and other national leaders, Dr. Brazier gave our nation a shining example of the brilliance, integrity and obedience to God’s word that I believe all men and women of God should emulate. "On a personal note, my wife, Carolyn, and I will forever cherish the dozens of personal moments we enjoyed whenever we visited his church especially our frequent participation in Bishop Brazier’s annual Christmas concert. "On behalf of a grateful nation and our Chicago community, I say "thank you" to Bishop Arthur Brazier for his dedicated service, for the legacy of family and fellowship that he leaves behind and for his obedience to God’s word. My prayers are with his wife, Mrs. Isabelle Brazier, his son, Dr. Byron Brazier who carries on his father’s legacy as the Pastor of the Apostolic Church of God, and to all the family, friends and members of his church whose hearts are heavy at this moment. "I take comfort in the fact that right now he’s in the arms of our Heavenly Father and that his spirit lives on in the quality of life that thousands of men and women, from all walks of life, so richly enjoy because of Bishop Brazier’s service." ###
10.21.2010	CHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today expressed his support and admiration for the ongoing humanitarian relief efforts for the survivors of the January 12 earthquake in Haiti. Last week, in a powerful expression of support for those who are still struggling to rebuild their lives, Senegal President Abdoulaye Wade welcomed 163 Haitian students to new homes and a fresh start in life in this west African nation. The Haitian students have remained homeless in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that struck 10 miles southwest of Haiti's capital, in Port-au-Prince, leaving in its wake 230,000 dead and tens of thousands of families homeless. President Wade provided homes for all 163 students who responded to his invitation to help them move forward in the aftermath of the earthquake's devastation. In doing so, he also acknowledged the level of support for these students and all earthquake survivors from the people in Senegal, and others throughout the Diaspora, who are committed to helping the people of Haiti rebuild their lives. "The level of love and support that was extended by President Wade to these Haitian earthquake survivors is a tremendous gift of the spirit and demonstrates leadership by a head of state who continues to work mightily to build and strengthen his economy," said Rush who is the Co-Chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGc). "President Wade's decision to welcome these young Haitians to his nation is a clear demonstration of 21st century Pan Africanism. I applaud President Wade's bold leadership, vision and determination to continue to build unity among all Africans and, especially, among African youth. His decision to allow these young people to stay and study in Senegal significantly contributes to the bridge building between African Chicago has one of the largest African immigrant populations in the United States. More than 100,000 live in Illinois. They include students, lawyers, doctors, nurses, academics and small business owners. They continue to play an active role in building our community. Annually, in the United States, about 1.4 million African immigrants transfer approximately $40 billion to Africa, a level of commitment that shows the importance of the African Diaspora to the U.S. and the nations of Africa. Rush added that he and his staff continue to monitor the ongoing support of the Obama Administration in the aftermath of the earthquake in Haiti. Earlier this month, on October 8, the U. S. Agency for International Development (USAID) provided its latest update on emergency relief efforts in Haiti in the aftermath of the January, 2010 earthquake. Here's a link to that report on their website: https://www.usaid.gov/our_work/humanitarian_assistance/disaster_assistance/countries/haiti/template/fs_sr/fy2011/haiti_eq_fs02_10-08-2010.pdf These efforts, as well as ongoing fundraising and disaster relief efforts supported by the Clinton-Bush Haiti Fund, provide Chicagoans and others with a steady stream of information on the status of relief and restoration efforts as well as opportunities for every American, who has a mind to do so, to lend their financial or volunteer support. ### For additional information on ways to assist in Haitian relief efforts, please visit the USAID website and the Clinton-Bush Haiti Fund for additional information. USAID: Haiti Earthquakehttps://www.usaid.gov/helphaiti/ Clinton-Bush Haiti Fundhttps://www.clintonbushhaitifund.org/
10.08.2010	CHICAGO -- Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) issued the following statement regarding the death of music legend Albertina Walker, 81, the internationally renowned recording artist known as the Queen of Gospel. She is best known for starting the world famous Caravans at the age of twenty two. The Caravans helped launched the careers of popular Gospel music artists Shirley Caesar, Inez Andrews, Delores Washington, Cassietta George, Dorothy Norwood and Rev. James Cleveland. After a stellar career with the Caravans Walker experienced success as a solo artist and recorded over 60 albums. Some of her popular songs are "Please Be Patient with Me," "Lord Keep Me Day By Day" and "I'm Still Here." "On behalf of the people of the first Congressional District of Illinois, my wife Carolyn and I extend our deepest condolences to the family, admirers, fans friends and supporters of Albertina Walker—she was not only a gospel music legend to millions around the world she was the voice of the Civil Rights Movement and her music was a healing balm to those who struggled for justice," Rush said. "'Tina was always available for counsel or concert and she often visited churches throughout the city to sing her songs of worship and praise. She was a strong woman with a gentle spirit—a born leader and a great Chicago ambassador. ‘Tina has left a huge imprint on gospel music and she now joins Mahaila Jackson, Father Thomas Dorsey, Rev. James Cleveland, and others, in God's heavenly choir; and every time the thunder rolls I will know she just stepped to the microphone." ###
10.07.2010	CHICAGO -- Today, citing more than a year's worth of concerted work and outreach to a diverse array of public and private industry stakeholders in Internet-based commerce, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) welcomed the spirited support of the BEST PRACTICES Act, which he introduced in July, from three industry leaders—eBay, Intel and Microsoft. These companies sent their letter on Monday to Rush, who chairs the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, and to Ranking Member Ed Whitfield where, in part, they said, "We support the bill's overall framework, which is built upon the Fair Information Practices regime. We appreciate that the BEST PRACTICES Act is technology neutral and gives flexibility to the Federal Trade Commission to adapt to changes in technology. The bill also strikes the appropriate balance by providing businesses with the opportunity to enter into a robust self-regulatory choice program." While this joint letter expressed concern over provisions in the BEST PRACTICES Act that creates a private right of action, Rush embraced this strong statement of support as a welcome sea change in the forward march toward the adoption of legislation that he believes fairly balances the privacy rights of consumers while preserving the free flow of commerce by these companies and others , many of whom provide largely ‘free' global consumer services. "As I've said in the hearings I've held on this subject and in meetings and presentations before leading IT industry and consumer stakeholders, the Internet is not a free service. Right now millions of consumers take for granted that when they power up their PCs, laptops, smart phones, video game consoles and other mobile devices that the content they're viewing and the services being provided to them are going to be there quickly and with little to no interference. While in the minds of consumers access to the Internet may amount to a "free lunch," I know full well that somebody had to pay for the news, information and feature content that those consumers have come to rely upon and enjoy. Despite their differing business models, eBay, Intel, Microsoft and other content providers must be free to execute business plans that will generate sufficient revenue in exchange for providing ‘free' content and services. I am glad that these companies view the legislation my staff and I worked so hard to produce as a major step in the right direction. As I press toward the adoption of this legislation, whether in this session of Congress or the next, I'll continue to do so in the spirit of bipartisanship and common sense that has driven all the consumer protection efforts I've guided through to passage from the time I assumed the position of subcommittee chairman. "It is my firm belief that Congress should concern itself with shifting the power to control consumers' online information back to them while preserving the fundamental business model that allows all consumers to use the Internet at little to no cost. The BEST PRACTICES Act is a solid first step in that direction and I welcome the support of these three industry leaders." To date, Rush has presided over five hearings on this subject in the current session of Congress. He and his colleagues have listened to more than 30 hours of testimony, including from the leadership of the Federal Trade Commission which has jurisdiction over online privacy. Rush and his staff have also participated in one-on-one meetings with dozens of leading public, private and non-profit IT industry stakeholders all with the goal of returning control of consumers' information to the consumer while not undermining the core business model which drives the Internet which is largely free news, information and video feature content. As a result of this unprecedented level of outreach and information gathering, Chairman Rush has determined that: 1) far too many companies that collect and use consumers' personal information have not dealt in a fair and above board fashion with consumers about the types of personal information they are collecting, how they are using that data, and who they are sharing that data with;2) most consumers are powerless to control, in any meaningful way, how and to which parties their personal information and data should flow; and3) there were far too many instances in which the flow of that data defied consumers' reasonable expectations about how that data might be used and shared. Rush commented on the implications of these findings by saying this, "Even if having all this information makes it easier for consumers to find and buy products and services or to read and view content online that is of particular interest to them, consumers still get the short end of the stick when industry shows that it is incapable, or unwilling, to better articulate what information they are collecting from consumers and why we should trust industry to protect consumers' personal information. The industry's behavior, itself, serves as the principal reason to enact comprehensive privacy legislation in a fair and timely manner. The support expressed by these companies, this week, further advances this effort to the finish line." A copy of the joint letter from these companies is attached. ###
10.06.2010	Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01), today joined Governor Pat Quinn, Congressman Danny K. Davis (D-IL07) and a host of others in announcing the start of a comprehensive $50 million effort to help strengthen and revitalize Illinois' urban communities. Based largely on feedback from the Governor's Anti-Violence Commission, recommended to him by Rush, the Neighborhood Recovery Initiative will focus on rebuilding Illinois' most vulnerable neighborhoods and protecting young people by offering more job and education opportunities. It will also provide small businesses with access to capital and technical expertise, which will help them expand and create new jobs. ###
09.30.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, joining the mantle of leadership displayed by Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Barbara Lee in her role as a Co-Chair and Founder of the Congressional Out of Poverty Caucus, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) lent his voice in strong support of the Out of Poverty Caucus members' efforts to focus America's attention on the shocking level of 21st century poverty that has struck an unprecedented level of families. Rush released the following statement. "I applaud the efforts, this morning, by my friend and colleague Rep. Barbara Lee and the other leaders of the Congressional Out of Poverty Caucus. All of us who care about the least of these in our nation must continue to fight aggressively to ensure that the economic security of low-income families does not get lost in other, more high profile public policy debates. "What I'm particularly concerned about is the growing body of analysis by researchers and demographers, including Georgetown University law professor Peter Edelman, who continue to study recently released census data that reveal that about 19 million people in the United States are now living in what he and others are now calling "extreme poverty." Extreme poverty is defined as a family of four who lives on less than 50 percent of the federal poverty line of $22,000. Simply put, what that means is that right now, in this country, 19 million four-person households are living on $11,000 a year. Think about that. Four people living on $11,000 a year! "It's hard for me to call that 'living.' "In my home state of Illinois, the picture is equally bleak. According to U. S. Census Bureau figures released a few days ago, last year, 13.3 percent of Illinois residents had incomes below the poverty threshold. That's up one percentage point from 2008. What that means in real terms is that, right now in the State of Illinois, nearly 1.7 million men, women and children were living in poverty last year. As new data continues to become available, I am convinced that the picture is worse in urban communities like those I serve in my district. "My message, this morning, to Rep. Lee and other caucus members and to the people I serve is this. We simply must stop wringing our hands about these conditions and embrace bold new leadership that's focused on helping people get back to work. We also need to strengthen and ramp up growing efforts, nationwide, that are focused on strengthening our nation's community college system for those who need to get re-trained to gain jobs in the growing green economy and in businesses and commerce that stem from the rapid expansion of new and Internet-based technologies. "I also believe that we simply must engage the full weight and resources of the federal government to help right our nation's economic ship of state. I urge the Obama Administration to marshal its considerable resources in innovative, new ways that can make a difference in the lives of low-income families. "Again, I want to commend the men and women whose vision led them to convene today's hearing and they have my full support in helping to implement whatever possible remedies that emerge from today's discussion." ###
09.23.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good afternoon. The Subcommittee is holding today's hearing on H.R. 6149, the Coin and Precious Metal Disclosure Act. The bill, which was introduced by Mr. Weiner of New York, would cover the sale of gold bullion, collectable coins made from other precious metals, and certain coins for investment purposes. "H.R. 6149 requires dealers, prior to selling these items, to make clear and conspicuous disclosures, in writing and orally, of all fees that consumers could incur in association with the sale of these covered items. "The required disclosures would extend to the purchase price, the melt value of the covered items, and the reasonable resale price of the covered items to other dealers. "Many of us have seen at least one of the television advertisements placed by Goldline International and other dealers that tell consumers to strongly consider purchasing precious coins in order to preserve, or protect, the value of consumers' investments in precious metals. "One of the risks that these advertisements and commercials cite repeatedly and consistently is that the U.S. government could potentially confiscate gold bullion. This is just one example, but I think it is one to which many of you can relate. "These advertisements, and the reported sales practices of these dealers, concerned Congressman Weiner and me enough that we sent a letter to Goldline asking that company to respond to a number of questions. Today, the CEO of Goldline is with us as one of our six witnesses. "In our letter, we asked Goldline to reveal more to us about: the company's sales staff training; its sales staff compensation, commission, and incentive structures; the average differential in value between the sales prices of gold bullion, gold coins, and how much Goldline would pay to purchase those items back from consumers. "We also asked Goldline to tell us the following: whether it encourages its sales staff, through training or in sales discussions, to refer to government confiscation of gold when they speak to consumers; whether sales staff receives different commission percentages for selling bullion than for selling collectible coins and what is that difference; and finally, we asked Goldline to tell us whether Goldline is required to be licensed or is qualified, in any jurisdiction, to act as an investment adviser. "Please send my thanks, Mr. Carter, to your President and CEO for promptly getting back to us in a letter—a gold-embossed letter I might add—that was dated August 12, 2010. "That letter was useful to me and my staff as it better defined some of the terms and words that Goldline uses in its existing disclosures to consumers. "I would like to request unanimous consent for the entry of both letters, mine and Mr. Weiner's letter to Goldline and Goldline's response, into the hearing record. I would also like to take this opportunity to request unanimous consent for the entry of four more documents into the hearing record: (i) A letter addressed to me from the National Consumers League, dated September 21, 2010, supporting H.R. 6149.(ii) A Statement for the Record on behalf of The Industry Council for Tangible Assets, dated today, September 23, 2010.(iii) A letter from the Professional Numismatists Guild, dated September 20, 2010; and(iv) A letter from the American Numismatic Association, dated September 21, 2010, addressed to myself and Ranking Member Whitfield. "I am very thankful to all of the witnesses who have agreed to share their valuable time with us in the interests of examining this bill and making it better. "With that, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
09.22.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning, Chairwoman Watson, Ranking Member Bilbray and members of the subcommittee. "Thank you for inviting me to testify before your subcommittee on this important hearing on "Minority Contracting: Opportunities and Challenges for Current and Future Minority-Owned Businesses." "I want to also thank you, Madam Chair, for this subcommittee's consideration this morning of my legislation, H.R. 4343."During the first half of 2009, Congress took extraordinary steps to turn the nation's economy around and create jobs that would fuel our economic recovery. "Many states have already begun to distribute contracts using funds provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. However, across the country, minority-owned firms are being shut out of the process because of artificial barriers that I believe this Congress simply must break down. "Outside of the federal marketplace, minority-owned firms are struggling to stay afloat and find the needed financial and technical assistance to continue their operations. In business, the metaphor of the ‘level playing field' comes to mind. "But that metaphor doesn't quite describe the circumstances for minority-owned businesses. "Far from being on the playing field, many of them find themselves standing outside the stadium door of that playing field and raising their voices, as loud as they can, saying "we're here and we want to participate!" "That's why I'm here, today, because so many of them can't be. Historically, minority-owned firms have long faced an uphill battle in gaining a foothold on the national economic scene. In 1997, a study by the Urban Institute identified several obstacles faced by minority-owned firms. At the top of that list was the lack of access to financial capital; limited access to informal business networks; lesser skilled human capital; and limited access to non-minority markets. Today, minority businesses make up almost 20 percent of all firms yet continue to be largely forgotten by the federal government. "For example, a 2007 Government Accountability Office report found that four federal departments and only one agency paid more than $4 billion for advertising from fiscal year 2001 to 2005. Needless to say, the report found that these federal agencies did a poor job of directing much of that money to these minority-owned firms. The question remains, to me and so many others I represent, why are these companies continually shut out of a process that these men and women, who are also taxpayers, also help fund and support? "Quite frankly, I find this unacceptable and so should all of you. "I am stating, unequivocally today, that by building up minority-owned firms we can begin to truly drive the economic recovery that Congress, and the Obama Administration, has been so diligently working towards. "Before I came here, today, I spent some time looking for ways to assist minority-owned firms, of all sizes and business sectors, in their efforts to succeed and prosper in their efforts to create jobs in America. Minority businesses employ nearly five million Americans. "I looked at the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA), under the Department of Commerce, as it's the only federal agency created specifically to help minority-owned firms. "Unfortunately it currently lacks the resources it truly needs to bring about significant change, especially in today's tough economic climate. If there was ever a time when this agency—given its mission—needs to be strengthened, I say that time is now! To that end, I introduced H.R. 4343, the Minority Business Development Improvement Act of 2009. "If adopted, this bill would: Establish the Minority Business Development Program to assist qualified minority businesses by providing technical assistance, loan guarantees and contracting procurement assistance. The bill authorizes the Director of MBDA to certify any entity as a qualified minority business that satisfies each of eight criteria outlined in the bill The bill authorized $200 million to the Director to carry out the technical assistance program and $500 million for loan guarantees. The bill would also allow firms participating in the program to bid on select, set-aside contracts for goods and services. "Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is time to bring the Minority Business Development Agency to the forefront of our nation's economic recovery discussion and, indeed, to give it the critically needed resources that will allow this agency to work in tandem with other federal agencies that are, likewise, engaged in and committed to growing businesses and creating jobs. "I am sure that other witnesses at today's hearing will concur that it is important to foster and enhance the creation of wealth in minority communities all across our nation. "As we continue to climb out of the economic ditch we find ourselves in, I'm sure that each of you have felt, in your own way, the desire to turn things around and to regain our economic footing for the people in our local communities and throughout the nation. "I urge members of this subcommittee to join me in a united effort to create a viable platform for minority-owned business development. "I thank you, again, for your support and the opportunity to speak this morning and I look forward to our shared future." ###
09.22.2010	WASHINGTON –– Following his opening comments, Rush mounted a spirited defense of his legislation (H.R. 4343, the Minority Business Development Improvements Act of 2009) designed to add critically needed resources for the Minority Business Development Agency, an agency that he described as "the smallest federal agency within the federal government." Rush made an urgent appeal for House members, on both sides of the aisle, to support legislation to revitalize an important federal agency that was originally established as the Office of Minority Business Enterprise by President Richard M. Nixon in March, 1969. By establishing a federal agency that was dedicated exclusively to minority business enterprises, Rush noted that even President Nixon recognized the impact of minority businesses on the nation's economy. When asked by the Chairwoman of the Government Management, Organization and Procurement Subcommittee, Diane E. Watson, about the effects of the economic downturn , its effect on minority-owned firms in Rush's 1st congressional district, and the impact on those firms' lack of an advocate in the form of the MBDA, Rush said, "The impact of the recession has been very powerful. "I'd say that, including some of the resources that have come from the Recovery Act, I'd say that it's less than three percent of the minority–owned businesses in my district who have been impacted. Although we've taken several steps, including having a number of seminars and forums. We've brought government officials out, every one, when the initiative was first proposed. We tried to get ahead of the program. We wanted to be the ‘firstest with the mostest.' However, as we've seen how these programs and these dollars are being spent, they've had very little effect on my district. "And one of the reasons why they've had very little effect in my district is that there is not a similar entity that really can help us address and deal with some of the difficulties that minority businesses have historically had to address. And that's why I've focused on, again, the President Nixon-created program, the Minority Business Development Agency. This is what's sorely needed at this time. If we want to increase from three percent to 10 percent to 25 percent to 30 percent, then we've got to have an advocate. A well armed, well financed, well intentioned focused advocate that will help the minority businesses in my district and provide assistance. "Madame Chair, I'm astounded and I'm ashamed to say this, but the MBDA, right now, is the smallest federal agency within the federal government. It has been flatlined in terms of its budget for over 40 years. Flatlined! Everything else is dependent on it. But the one agency that can make a significant difference in my community and in other minority communities, the one agency whose mission it is to help engage my constituents and your constituents in a robust manner in this economy, that agency is moribund, almost, because of the lack of funding and resources that it has." In response to further questioning, Rush added, "If we invest in the beginning, at the outset, in minority businesses and if we invest in this agency, then the savings to the American taxpayer on the other end would be 100 times or greater. Because if you invest in creating businesses, in creating jobs, and then your investment in the social programs, in the prisons and the inadequate schools, that investment on the back end would be less." ###
09.22.2010	During a visit to Capitol Hill, professional basketball legend Jerry West (center), talked sports and politics with U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL). They were joined by former U.S. Representative Jack Fields (R-TX). Rep. Rush, among other things, stressed the role of sports in reducing youth violence and invited West to work with him in the future to address the issue. (Photo courtesy of U.S. House Office of Photography) ###
09.14.2010	WASHINGTON -- Last Friday evening, on September 10, a giant of our nation's political and civil rights movement went home to be with God. Dr. Ronald Walters, the esteemed and long serving political scholar and analyst at Howard University and the University of Maryland, died at the age of 72. Walters spent 25 years at Howard before becoming director of the African American Leadership Institute at the University of Maryland. A noted author of several books and more than 100 articles, Dr. Walters prided himself on applying his brilliant mind in support of policy and political issues that were vital to the improvement of the quality of life for African Americans and others throughout our nation. Rush, who also serves as a Board member of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, penned a moving tribute to Dr. Walters' legacy in the Congressional Blog of The Hill newspaper. "I cannot fully convey how big a loss the death of Dr. Ron Walters means in the lives of so many African Americans and those who love justice throughout our nation," said Rush. "Dr. Walters worked passionately on policy and political issues that benefitted the least of these within our nation. Though he was an advisor and strategist to towering American figures, he took great pride and passion in his work in the classroom with, literally, thousands of students over the course of almost four decades. "Right now there are dozens of men and women from diverse backgrounds who are serving our nation, in all walks of life, who represent the living legacy of Dr. Walters' passion and commitment to service and excellence. I, for one, will miss his sage counsel. "On behalf of a grateful nation, my wife Carolyn and I extend our heartfelt condolences to the love of his life, Patricia Turner Walters, and the family, friends and students throughout our nation who will never forget his commitment to public service." ### NOTE: Here's a link to Rep. Rush's tribute, "Dr. Ronald Walters: The W.E.B. DuBois of Our Time," published, today, in The Hill: https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/118629-dr-ronald-walters-the-web-dubois-of-our-time-rep-bobby-rush
09.07.2010	CHICAGO – Moments ago Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) had this to say about Mayor Richard M. Daley's surprise announcement that he would not seek re-election to a seventh term at the city's helm: "Mayor Daley's announcement is shaking the Chicago body politic to its very foundation. However, as I reflect back on the Daley's tenure it should not go unsaid that his passion for this city loomed far, wide, high and deep," Rush said. "Not withstanding the mayoral race in 1999, I really enjoyed my working relationship in Congress with Mayor Daley. He always seemed to have ordinary Chicagoans in mind. While we had several areas of disagreement, particularly on the allocation and delivery of police services, economic opportunity and neighborhood development, I must note that he certainly reached out in my direction many times and the results of our efforts should be obvious to all. I know this was a difficult announcement but I believe his decision was the best decision for his family. As a cancer survivor my thoughts and prayers are forever with the Daley family. "On a political note I emphatically state that the next mayor of the City of Chicago will include a Black community agenda--one that addresses the quality of life issues within the Black community in a more poignant and purposeful manner," he continued. "Lastly, I must admonish the media to end its coordinated commentary on who will be the next mayor of the city of Chicago. Whoever that person will be will have to come through my community--and address my community and have an established record of working with my community on its many deep seated problems. Before anyone is deemed an imaginary front runner in this particular race, they should pause and take that into consideration."} ###
08.26.2010	CHICAGO –– Tonight, in recognition of his years of policy and advocacy support on behalf of small and minority-owned businesses, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) will receive the Parren J. Mitchell Award from Illinois Governor Pat Quinn on behalf of the Illinois Black Chamber of Commerce. In addition to presenting this award to Rush, Governor Quinn will also address this national audience of African American business leaders from the State of Illinois and across the United States during an address this evening. Rush, who's serving in his second, two-year term as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, will be honored for his proven leadership in working to ensure that minority-owned businesses play a leading role in the fabric of the State of Illinois' public and private sectors and throughout the United States. This gathering marks the 5th Annual Convention of the Illinois Black Chamber of Commerce, an organization that has been led by its President and CEO, Larry D. Irving, since its inception. This afternoon, Rush was the keynote speaker at a luncheon where he outlined his observations on the status of the FCC's continued efforts to implement a national broadband strategy. The awards event will be held at the Hyatt Regency McCormick Place, 2233 S. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, in the 2nd floor ballroom. The dinner begins at 7 p.m. CST and the awards presentation will begin at 8 p.m. CST. For onsite information, reporters should contact the event organizers at 309-749-4330 for additional details. ###
08.25.2010	CHICAGO: During a surprise visit to the Hyatt Hotel in downtown Chicago, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) recently pledged his support to hotel workers who are gearing up for a strike for fair wages, health benefits and safe working conditions. The labor contract for more than 6,000 hotel workers in Chicago expired a year ago, and negotiations have been unsuccessful. While the contracts affect workers at several hotel chains, Unite HERE has focused its efforts on Chicago-based Hyatt and the Pritzker family, which controls the chain. Boycotts have been called by workers at Hyatt properties in Boston, San Francisco and San Diego, Calif. The congressman was joined in the visit by Pastors United for Change President Rev. Roosevelt Watkins (second from left), (not pictured) Bishop Edgar Jackson, Beth-El All Nations Church, and Rev. Leslie Sanders, Presbyterian Hope Church. [Photo by Stephanie Gadlin] ###
08.20.2010	CHICAGO -- "While Wall Street financiers reap healthy profits off the backs of a bailout that U. S. taxpayers paid for and while leading U. S. businesses that could hire, incredibly, refuse to hire for reasons that make no sense to me and millions of out of work Americans, I, for one, have had enough. "I'm tired of Wall Street benefiting while Main Street USA—and far too many of those Americans who suffer in silence on our nation's side streets—wait in frustration for a good faith show of support from those who've benefited from the American taxpayers. "To riff off one of our President's favorite talking points, for those leaders who are serious about putting America's economic interests in "drive," I believe the keys to our nation's economic engine should be put in the hands of small business owners—especially the growing legion of innovative African American, women- and minority-owned business owners that have a proven track record of reinvesting their talent, their financial investments and their jobs in local communities. "And I'm not just talking about, it I'm doing something about it. "Next week, from Monday through Friday, my Chicago District Office staff, in partnership with the U. S. Small Business Administration and a leading coalition of public and non-profit civic organizations, will work every day to provide hands on, free advisory support services for small business owners whose needs and interests are very diverse. Some may need a hand in walking through the occasional "policy weeds" of the federal bureaucracy while others may need information on how to connect with like-minded business owners that will point them in the right direction on how to access the resources that are necessary to build their businesses. "While we call this event the "Illinois First Congressional District Business Week," it really marks the natural progression of years of continued service my staff and I have provided to those small business leaders and constituents who'd like to own, or help build, a small business. Sometimes the simple act of helping individuals gain access to information about their chosen market helps instill confidence as they continue to move forward by taking the steps necessary to bring their dreams to life. "My office's support for small business is one of the most important services my staff and I provide because, in so many ways, it makes a difference that continues to ripple throughout my district, my state and, often, in our nation. "Simply put, Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs) have long served as a cornerstone of our nation's economy. For decades these businesses have been a model for growth and development through even the leanest of economic times. In 1969, the United States had 322,000 MBEs contributing $10.6 billion in total gross receipts to the economy. In 2007, according to figures recently released by the U.S. Census Bureau, the number of MBEs had grown to 5.8 million, pouring approximately $1 trillion in revenue into our nation's economy. "Domestically, MBEs have also been a driver of job creation. In 2002, MBEs employed 4.7 million people. By 2007, that number had grown by more than 25 percent to 5.9 million. Between 2004 and 2007, young minority business executives created, on average, three new jobs within their first four years of existence. To put the growth of MBEs in perspective, between 2002 and 2007, the number of people employed by non-minority owned firms increased by only 2.3 percent. "What these figures indicate is that on the long road back for our nation's economy, MBEs are in the driver's seat. That's why they deserve our focus, not those business leaders who still cynically believe that putting their hand out for a taxpayer-financed bailout is the right thing to do while, at the same time, shipping much needed American jobs overseas. This kind of behavior, I think, is simply un-American. "As chair of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, I've made it a priority to help shine a spotlight on the tremendous trade and investment opportunities that exist between the U.S. economy and global economies throughout the world—especially those found in Africa and Cuba. Just last week, the Obama Administration announced that it's preparing a set of measures that would expand opportunities for Americans to travel to Cuba and send money there, something my colleagues and I in the Congressional Black Caucus called for months ago. I am also pleased that the Administration has extended its hand to the leaders of the assorted democratic nations in Africa. "As a leader and as a pastor, I work tirelessly to inspire our young people to see themselves not just as Americans but as citizens of a global economy—a vast global economy that is growing in Africa and other parts of the world. I can only imagine the innovation that could stem from urban communities throughout our nation if we could inspire our youth to lay down their weapons and to open their minds to books and other sources of entrepreneurial knowledge that would continue to spur economic growth in America and beyond."As has been documented by the Small Business Administration and other sources, while MBEs enjoy exponential growth at home, it is on the global stage that MBEs are primed and ready to make an impact. Why? "Because MBEs have the potential to have a major impact in the global marketplace as they are twice as likely to generate sales through exports as non-minority firms. "The Minority Business Development Agency is keenly aware of this fact and has made it the central theme of their hallmark event, MED Week 2010, to be held in Washington, DC, August 25 - 27, 2010. The conference, with the theme "Strategies for Growth and Competitiveness in the Global Economy," will allow minority entrepreneurs to participate in workshops and forums geared towards helping MBEs access the global marketplace. Participants will also have the opportunity to meet with embassy leaders from Latin America, South Africa, and China at evening networking events. "Next week, as the Obama Administration leads in this arena, on the national stage, I am grateful to those participating organizations who are working with me and my staff to make our Chicago event a success. I challenge my colleagues, on both sides of the political aisle, to do the same. "Honestly, who can seriously argue with the value of putting the economic keys to our nation's future prosperity in the hands of those who will reinvest our investment in them with those who want to work right here at home? Certainly no one who's serious about wanting our nation's economy to improve." ### NOTE: For information on our Chicago small business series, please visit: https://www.house.gov/rush/eventcalendar.shtml To register for the MED Week Conference and Pre-Conference activities, please visit: www.medweek.gov
08.17.2010	CHICAGO -- Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will kick-start a series of exciting, new initiatives designed to provide local small and mid-sized businesses with tools, information, and resources as part of 1st Congressional District Small Business Week (August 23-27). The five-day series of seminars and programs will offer one-stop shopping for starting and growing small business and offer a report on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) and its local impact.Each activity is scheduled on site in Rep. Rush’s District Office at 700 E. 79th Street (corner of 79th Street and Langley) or SCCS Festival Hall, 8316 S. Ellis Avenue. The program is held in conjunction with the U.S. Small Business Administration; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; U.S. Department of Commerce; U.S. Department of Health & Human Services; the Office of Governor Pat Quinn; Illinois Department of Transportation; Illinois Institute of Technology; and, South Central Community Services.The five-day initiative will connect entrepreneurs to federal services necessary to establish, build and grow their businesses. It will feature one-on-one counseling, trade opportunities and a series of intensive workshops covering such topics as “Federal Stimulus & 550 Days;” “Business Training & Counseling;” “Business Certification;” “Access to Capital;” and will also include a “Procurement & Employment Opportunity Fair.” Business owners will be able to apply on site for a micro loan from $5,000 to $25,000. Applicants must bring a photocopy of their driver’s license, their federal tax identification number and a business check."Small business owners embody the spirit of entrepreneurship that lie at the heart of the American dream," said Rep. Rush. "I am bringing together representatives of key federal agencies responsible for awarding ARRA grants and contracts so my constituents can know how to participate. The first annual District Business Week will give entrepreneurs a much needed boost of adrenaline and lead to much-needed job creation."Rep. Rush has been a staunch advocate of small business and job creation. Recently he received a Lifetime Achievement Award during the 28th Annual Chicago Minority Enterprise Development (MED) Week Celebration hosted by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) on behalf of the Chicago Minority Enterprise Development Council. He has also introduced several pieces of legislation designed to strengthen minority and women-owned businesses including H.R.2299 Minority Small Business Enhancement Act of 2009 which will amend the Small Business Act to enhance services to small business concerns that are disadvantaged, and for other purposes, and HR 4343 Enhancing Opportunities for Main Street/Small & Minority Businesses. The legislator is a leading advocate for increased trade in Africa and the Caribbean.All 1st Congressional District Business Week programs are free and open to the general public. No prior registration is required. For a complete event schedule or more information call Younus Suleman, deputy district director, at 708-385-9550, or visit www.house.gov/rush.###
08.10.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) stood in solidarity with his House colleagues in support of important jobs legislation that is vital to thousands of working families and state and local municipalities throughout the United States. Rush's "yes" vote not only helped to save or create almost 320,000 jobs––including saving the jobs of 160,000 teachers and preventing the layoffs of tens of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and nurses––but it also provided an important economic cushion for recession-plagued state budgets by providing $16.1 billion in health assistance that will help dozens of states reduce or prevent shortfalls so that other important public services can be delivered. "Today's vote is just the latest example of the adage, ‘politics ain't beanbag.' At a time when far too many of my friends and colleagues on the other side of the aisle make false arguments about deficit spending, today, I proudly stood with my leadership to say loudly and clearly that teachers do matter, that public servants do matter and that listening to the urgent appeals from dozens of state and local elected officials—including a majority of our nation's governors—does, indeed, matter! This was a responsible vote, a vote that was urgently needed and a vote that was paid for. That's the message I'm taking back to my district and I look forward to President Obama signing this legislation as soon as possible so that these resources can begin to make a difference in the quality of life for the American people." The legislation provides $10 billion in funding to save more than 160,000 teacher jobs. It also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states that, by reducing shortfalls and stimulating the economy, will save or create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and firefighters, as well as creating private-sector jobs throughout our economy. This measure is also fiscally responsible as it reduces the federal budget deficit by closing a tax loophole that actually promoted the shipping of U.S.-based jobs overseas. This legislation enjoys the support of a majority of the nation's governors, including many Republican governors, as well as dozens of state and local civic organizations including the bipartisan National Conference of State Legislatures, the National Association of Counties and the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations. ###
08.06.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Today I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Solicitor General Elena Kagan who, yesterday, received a majority vote in the U. S. Senate to serve as the next Supreme Court Justice of the United States. "I am proud of the fact that she joins the court bringing with her a wealth of experiences gained here, in Chicago, the city I love. In addition to her history making role as the third woman to serve on the nine-member court when it returns to session this fall, I believe she brings a temperament and the intellectual vigor that’s necessary to engage with her colleagues on a range of issues that confront our nation especially those living in urban communities."What I gather from her testimony during her Senate confirmation hearings is that she was, indeed, blessed and enlightened by the extraordinary opportunity she had to clerk for the legendary Justice Thurgood Marshall. She gained a privilege and a platform that very few ever enjoyed in our country and I hope that her legacy as a justice on our nation’s highest court will strengthen the scope of justice to the ‘least of these’ in our nation, a group that Justice Marshall so deeply cared about. "I wish Justice Kagan the very best as she embarks on this new chapter in her life." ###
08.05.2010	CHICAGO - As of June 30, 2010, eight of Congressman Bobby L. Rush’s bills, amendments, and resolutions have passed the U.S. House of Representatives (and in some cases the Senate) and/or have been enacted into public law. They are the following: H.R. 20, MOTHERS Act – Enacted into public law in its entirety H.R. 444, 340B Inpatient Medicaid Expansions – Enacted H.R. 1706, Pay-for-Delay Settlement Agreement Prohibition – Passed in House on two occasions, awaiting Senate Approval in War Supplemental H.Con.Res. 128/1405 (African Partnership & Strategic Importance) – Passed by House, final action H.Res. 1414 (Congratulating Urban Prep) – Passed by House, final action Collaborative Healthcare Networks Demonstration Project (Amendment in healthcare bill to address indigent and uninsured patient care ) – Enacted Trauma Center Construction in Urban Areas (Amendment in healthcare bill) – Enacted At-Risk Youth Provisions for Community Partnership funding, counseling and mental health services (Amendment in Healthcare bill) - Enacted Rep. Rush’s legislative staff is currently working on moving a series of bills during the remainder of this session. Remaining priority bills requiring action are the following: Crestwood Amendments – awaiting Energy & Commerce Committee vote on State Revolving Fund bill E&C Committee vote on Bereaved Consumer Bill of Rights (H.R. 3655) HR 4000, Conflict Resolution to Curb Youth Violence (18 cosponsors) HR 4920 Youth Job Bill (44 cosponsors) HR 4343 Enhancing Opportunities for Main Street/Small & Minority Businesses (15 cosponsors) For more information on Rep. Rush's congressional initiatives please visit his website at www.house.gov/rush or contact his Washington office at 202-225-4372. ###
07.29.2010	WASHINGTON –– “Good morning. Today, we are pleased to welcome all of our seven witnesses, who represent a wide range of views on the state of chemicals regulation in the United States. “I know that each of you are very concerned about the proper role of the Environmental Protection Agency in assessing chemical risks, hazards, exposure, and safety, as they relate to protecting human health, public safety and the environment. I look forward to listening to the testimony of the witnesses and their reactions to H.R. 5820, the Toxic Chemicals Safety Act of 2010, which I proudly co-authored and introduced in the House of Representatives with Chairman Waxman, one week ago, last Thursday. “Because we anticipated that we would introduce a major chemicals reform bill before the August recess, Chairman Waxman and I invited critical stakeholders, beginning in early May 2010, to comment on and participate, in person, at a number of stakeholder sessions on a discussion draft, which served as a precursor to the bill that is the subject of today’s hearing. My own goal in all of this was to put forward a bill that all sides would not necessarily fall in love with, but could actually live with just like the hundreds of millions of Americans must live with chemical substances, mixtures, and articles that they put on their bodies, find in the containers where they store their food and water, and that they put onto the breakfast, lunch, and dinner tables of their families and loved ones before putting them into their precious bodies. “One thing that is absolutely clear to me is that Americans want, need, and demand to know ––much more than they ever have in the past––what chemicals are in their consumer products, their food and drink, their homes, their surrounding communities and throughout their environment. “Americans are also demanding to know what the associated use, hazard, and exposure risks and harms are from these chemicals to their own health, to the health of their families, and to the environment. “It is with this imperative to act—and to act now— that we find ourselves here today. “Again, I want to thank all of today’s witnesses for your participation and we look forward to your testimony. ###
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Let me begin by thanking Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Whitfield for their support of H.R. 5156 the "Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act of 2010," legislation I co-authored with Congresswoman Matsui, Congresswoman Eshoo and Chairman Emeritus Dingell. "First, let me thank Congresswoman Matsui for taking the lead on this crucial issue. "Today, I am asking my colleagues to vote on a bill that addresses the challenges we face in today's economy. "This bill will help to increase American manufacturers' green products through the establishment of a Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Fund to assist U. S. businesses with exporting clean energy technology, products and services. "We all know that America is a prime market for foreign manufacturers. Mr. Speaker, far too often the U.S. market is open to global manufacturers but, sadly, the converse is not always true. This is the case, however, for green technology products where our nation is in a unique position to lead on a global scale. "The U. S. manufacturing industry faces serious challenges overseas despite the fact that we are a leader in green technology. "As I've said repeatedly, we must seize the energy opportunity that we have, today, lest we slip further behind to foreign competition. "We need a strong domestic policy to allow the manufacturing industry to be confident enough to penetrate the international market. Also, it is equally important to strengthen and transform our economy and, in doing so, further assert our global leadership. "The disaster that continues to take place in the Gulf of Mexico in the aftermath of the BP oil spill is a wake up call. We should not only be a global leader in offshore technology but we should also be a leader in clean technology exports. When I say "clean," I also mean responsible energy policy. "Mr. Speaker, this bill is results-oriented because I have added language the helps us evaluate the impact of this program on its ability to create jobs, including the gathering of specific information as to the nature, location, and duration of those jobs as well as the methodology used by the Secretary to compile such information. "I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill and to expand their commitment to significantly increase our exports. "It will help deploy clean technologies to developing countries and to assist them in addressing climate change, spur economic growth and create job opportunities for all American workers." ###
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4692, the "National Manufacturing Strategy Act of 2010," introduced by my dear friend from Illinois, Congressman Dan Lipinski. I commend him for his leadership on this important issue. "It is time for the United States to revise our manufacturing policy. This bill has gained strong, bipartisan support from Members of Congress because it speaks to the level of leadership, in the manufacturing arena, that our nation seeks to assert once again on the global stage. "America's manufacturing sector is an essential foundation of our nation's economy. Consider the fact that, in 2009, the manufacturing sector employed more than 11.5 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, that number, though significant is not as good as it could be when you consider that 10 years ago America's manufacturing sector employed 17.3 million people—meaning that our nation actually lost 5.8 million jobs between 1999 and 2009. "The National Manufacturing Strategy Act of 2010 will make a significant difference in helping to restore and reposition our nation's manufacturing capacity so that American workers can better compete in today's global economy. "Today, we are still fighting our way through a global financial crisis and we are facing aggressive competition from other industrialized nations as well as emerging countries. "Some of our manufacturing competitors have designed and implemented five- or ten-year strategic plans to allow their economies to not only complete globally but, also, to export their goods to our market here at home. The sad fact of the matter is that these international markets are not reciprocating by welcoming U.S. goods to their marketplace. "In recent years the U.S. has actually lost market share to growing export countries like China, Southeast Asia and India. "If we do not act now, this steady decline will persist. We simply cannot allow that to happen. "This bill requires the President to undertake a deep and broad analysis of the nation's manufacturing sector, including the international economic environment, related technological developments, workforce elements, the impact of governmental policies and other relevant issues affecting domestic manufacturers. "I also added a provision requiring analysis on the trade imbalance, job creation, employment disparities and workforce development. "Based on this analysis, the President, in collaboration with key cabinet officials within his Administration as well as governors, state and local elected officials and other key stakeholders in the public and private sectors, will develop a four-year national strategy that identifies goals and makes recommendations to improve our nation's economic growth. "I urge my colleagues to support this bill and help our manufacturing sector become bigger, bolder and better than it was in the past." ###
07.27.2010	WASHINGTON -- "The subcommittee will come to order. "April 20, 2010 was a tragic day for the people of the Gulf Coast region of the United States. "Eleven workers died following an explosion on the Deep Water Horizon oil rig located 40 miles, offshore, in the Gulf of Mexico. Since that day, an estimated 50 to 150 million gallons of oil have leaked into the gulf, severely damaging our environment, destroying families' way of life and severely damaging the entire region's economy. "Tourism is the gulf region's second largest industry, generating more than $39 billion in state revenue. Tourism represents 46 percent of the region's economy and employs over one million people. Various studies indicate that the oil spill has put 300,000 jobs at risk, representing 15 percent of the total job base in that region. "The saddest part of this story is that some of the businesses that are impacted, today, were still recovering from the aftermath of the Hurricane Katrina tragedy five years ago. "Now that BP has created a $20 billion claims pool to compensate victims who've been impacted by the oil spill, the purpose of this hearing is to make sure that the travel and tourism industry will not be left behind. "Why? Because of the intricacy of that particular industry, the complexity of the methodology that needs to be employed to determine the level of damages, and fair compensation, and because of the tourism industry's vast economic impact on the entire Gulf Coast region. "We have learned from the massive media coverage of the BP oil spill, and by various studies by the tourism industry, itself, that the region is losing business not only because the beaches may not be safe but, also, because travelers think it is not safe to travel to the Gulf Coast region of the United States! "We have also heard the concerns of the industry about the claims process, its time frame for compensation and eligibility. "Finally, we also have to consider what needs to be done to bring back the industry to the stature it had before the oil spill. "These are difficult issues we will have to examine, here, today. The complexity of the matter may require more than one hearing. "Nevertheless, I respectfully request that Members of the subcommittee shorten their opening remarks, as I have done, so that we may have more time to hear from the witnesses and allow them to respond to as many questions as possible, this morning. I also understand some witness have time constraints. "I want to thank the witnesses for appearing before this subcommittee. We all have concerns about the tourism industry and how it will be compensated and revitalized. I hope our discussion is productive. "With that, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.27.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) secured a firm commitment from Kenneth Feinberg, the Administrator of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, that an emergency payment system for urgent claims "should be finished and available this week." In response to Chairman Rush's query, Mr. Feinberg also addressed related questions as to the speed of claims disbursements that would begin to be issued from the $20 billion claim fund recently announced by the Obama Administration.In light of news reports earlier today about slow to non-existent claims funds disbursements for businesses in the Gulf Coast region, Chairman Rush scrapped the questions he was set to ask and, instead, asked Mr. Feinberg to provide the people of the Gulf Coast with specific answers as to when they could expect to receive initial compensation for their claims. After reporting the fact that, to date, no funds have been disbursed to Gulf Coast businesses that are still awaiting a determination as to whether or not they are even eligible to submit a claim against the $20 billion escrow fund, Chairman Rush put his question this way, "I'm drawn to the infamous and fictional Gulf Coast fisherman, Forrest Gump, who said that, "Life is a box of chocolates. You just don't know what you're going to get! Now, my question to you, Mr. Feinberg, is when will the people of the Gulf Coast—the businesses, the workers—when will they get something specific from you, or someone else, about who's eligible, why they're eligible, when they're going to get paid and how much they're going to get paid? These are just some basic questions. The guess work needs to end."In response, Mr. Feinberg said this, "I'll answer that very obviously, critically important question with three answers. First, I believe that the blueprint that I have established for emergency payments to be paid as quickly as possible should be finished and available this week. That's first. That's my goal. Secondly, I have no authority to fund the $20 billion escrow account. That is an agreement between the [Obama] Administration and BP. My understanding is that they are working overtime to try and finalize the terms and conditions of that escrow account which will make the $20 billion available. I can't give you a time except to say I think it's probably within a matter of weeks. But I don't know. I'm not privy to that escrow negotiation."Third, I suspect that I'll be able to accept transition from BP. BP will get out of the claims business completely, the private claims business, and I should be up and running with the Gulf Coast Claims Facility the middle of next month…a couple of weeks! And, then, I will assume all authority to process emergency claims, emergency claims in which the fisherman, the small business, the restaurant [owner] will not waive any rights they may have. They will simply decide if they're eligible. They'll decide whether they want to participate in the program. And will receive, if eligible and if they document their loss, up to six months of emergency payments to help get them over this immediate emergency."Now, Mr. Chairman, if I may just add I understand from all of these witnesses, and from members of this committee, time is of the essence. Time is of the essence. This a huge undertaking. And I am working as fast as I can and as diligently as I can, full time, to get the Gulf Coast Claims Facility up and running. To get it funded so that these emergency claims can be made as soon as possible."In a follow-up question, Chairman Rush asked about the workers and if the same guidelines applied to them.In response to that question, Mr. Feinberg added, "The same. I think BP has done a much better job with this $230 million they've paid out, I think they've done a much better job of paying out worker claims for shrimping, fishermen, oyster harvesters than they have paying out small business and large business claims. I think that's clear from the testimony I've heard today and from the CPA in Alabama. And I think that's absolutely true. That's one reason why I've got to get up and running with this facility as soon as I can."###NOTE: Here's a link to the C-SPAN video coverage of today's hearing.
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON -- On Thursday evening, July 21, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, along with several leading members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including U. S. Rep. Donald Payne, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, hosted a joyous, widely attended reception in the Longworth House Office Building that featured a distinguished special guest, His Excellency Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of Senegal. As part of this historic evening, Rush presented President Wade with a special framed print of H. Res. 1405, a resolution that congratulates the people of the 17 African nations that, in 2010, are marking the 50th year of their national independence. On July 1, 2010, only one day after this resolution was introduced by Rush with 51 co-sponsors from both parties, an historic bipartisan outpouring of support for the people of Africa was expressed by a 410 - 0 vote in support of this resolution. What follows is the text of Chairman Rush's prepared remarks: "Good evening to His Excellency President Wade, members of the diplomatic corps, to my fellow members of the U. S. House and Senate who are joining us, today, and the many distinguished guests who are participating in this historic event. It's a privilege for me to address you this evening. "I want to thank Bernadette Paolo, of the Africa Society, and the Congressional African Staff Association for coordinating the first "Africa Day on the Hill" celebration. "A lot has been said about President Wade. He has travelled across three continents in seven days with stops in Dakar, Paris, Chicago and, now, in Washington, D.C. This demonstrates the seriousness of his commitment to bring prosperity to the Senegalese people. "I must say that the Senegalese people are very active. That dynamism is embodied in the new Ambassador of Senegal, Her Excellency Danielle Diagne who, in three months, has gotten to the top of the mountain many have yet to climb. She has been very helpful in putting this program together and ensuring that your visit is a success. Thank you Madam Diagne. "We are here, today, to celebrate a turning point in Africa's history—50 years of independence of Africa. "I authored two resolutions that were reconciled into House Resolution 1405, a measure that passed congress with a historic, unanimous vote. This resolution not only recognizes Africa's humanitarian importance but its economic, strategic and cultural significance. This is a milestone toward the United States' ability to build a mutually beneficial partnership with the people of the African continent. With House Resolution 1405, we are also honoring the lives of those who fought for Africa's independence. "The United States' past, paternalistic approach toward sub-Saharan Africa has come to an end. I believe other countries already understood this fact. Today, growing numbers of Americans are beginning to recognize and appreciate the progress that has been made. "Many of you who are with us, tonight, come from nations that have become democracies and are striving to break the links to past oppression. You also face serious challenges beyond your control, growing threats from the global financial crisis, climate change and terrorism. "Unfortunately, some countries still face serious challenges, but remember, Africa is comprised of 53 nations. We, in this country, increasingly acknowledge the fact that Africa is no longer a humanitarian case. Africa is rising and, today, is considered to be in a period of its "great awakening" on the world stage. "Most recently this was evident as the whole world watched the glorious stagecraft that South Africa conveyed to our nation and the world through its peaceful and effective hosting of the World Cup soccer tournament! "I would like to think that today marks the beginning of a new era. We are all partaking, as equal partners, in the transformational phase of Africa's history. "You know, brother and sisters, an African Proverbs says: "We can hear the voice of a tree falling but not the shout of a bush growing." I would add to this: "Unless we stand still." I am calling on all of you, in this room, to stand still and look at Africa rising! "When we passed this resolution, we didn't know how to best present it to our African friends. Not having the opportunity to host 17 heads of state in Washington, D.C., we thought only one nation could receive that resolution on behalf of all the others. "We were looking for a man that champions African Unity, a man that had the vision of creating the new partnership for African development, a man who is determined to empower women and elevate them to strategic positions at every sector of the society, including the public arena, infrastructure development, diplomacy and the private sector. "A man who is investing in youth, a man who conveys unwavering support for good governance, a man who is well respected internationally, a man who will lead his region on climate change and clean technology development. "And last, but not least, a man whose country never, I repeat, never suffered a coup d'état. "Nobody in this room can deny the fact that President Abdoulaye Wade embodies these principles. Your Excellency, I was humbled when you gave me the honor of accepting my invitation. "I personally consider you to be a close friend to the United States and a close friend of the Africans of the Diaspora. "Mr. President, we have hope in your leadership. With this resolution, we are renewing our commitment to partner with Africa. "On behalf of the U. S. House of Representatives, I present to you the printed copy of House Resolution 1405 adopted by the U.S. Congress on July 1, 2010. "We look forward to working with you as you work to make Senegal, Africa, and the Africa Diaspora's prosperity a reality. "Mr. President, thank you for visiting with us." ### NOTE: A list of the "Honorary Hosts" of this historic event is listed below: Members of the U. S. Senate:Senator Mark Begich (Alaska)Senator Roland Burris (Illinois)Senator Russ Feingold (Wisconsin)Senator Patrick Leahy (Vermont) Members of the U. S. House of Representatives:U. S. Rep. André Carson (Indiana)U. S. Rep. Yvette Clarks (New York)U. S. Rep. James Clyburn, House Majority Whip (South Carolina)U. S. Rep. Steve Cohen (Tennessee)U. S. Rep. Barbara Lee, Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus (California)U. S. Rep. Gregory Meeks (New York)U. S. Rep. Donald Payne (New Jersey)U. S. Rep. Ed Royce (California)U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (Illinois)U. S. Rep. Diane Watson (California)
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) voted "yes" in support of long overdue legislation aimed at extending vitally needed unemployment insurance benefits for those Americans who are in desperate need of this economic safety net in the midst of a challenging economic climate. "I stand in support of Speaker Pelosi, CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee and other colleagues who believe, as I do, that today’s vote should not have taken this long," said Rush who was one of the first to urge voters to remember the U. S. Senate’s foot dragging with respect to this legislation. "For more than two months, this bill has been held hostage by those in the Senate who use false arguments over the size of the budget deficit over the needs of those who need unemployment benefits to help their families survive. "As important as today’s vote is in restoring unemployment benefits, retroactively, to those hard working Americans who rely on these benefits to make ends meet, the fact is that the needless delay in the United States Senate means that our young people have lost an opportunity to access critically needed resources for summer jobs. These young people will never get that time or those lost resources back and, for that, I say shame on those who’ve cynically chosen politics over the needs of hard working Americans." Rush agrees with the analysis by leading economists and others that using questionable arguments in support of reducing the multi-billion dollar federal deficit at the expense of spending for additional unemployment benefits is shortsighted. Unemployment benefits are resources that are most likely to be immediately poured back into the economy in the form of disposable spending for food, clothing and other essential services. "When it comes to arguments about the federal deficit, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle must think the American people aren’t paying attention. How can they, on the one hand, fail to support funding for unemployment benefits by citing the size of the deficit while, on the other hand, consistently expressing their interest in actually extending the Bush-Cheney era tax cuts for the rich beyond the time they’re set to expire at the end of this year? And by the way, they want to do that without regard to the big hole this will create in that same federal deficit they’ve told the people in my community that they care so deeply about. Who do they think they’re kidding? ###
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, following hearings and an extended stakeholder process in response to the release of a discussion draft in April, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, and Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, introduced H.R. 5820, the Toxic Chemicals Safety Act of 2010, a major piece of legislation aimed at strengthening and updating the decades-old Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) of 1976, the primary statute governing the safety of chemicals in commerce. "The introduction of this legislation marks a major step forward in our efforts to bring to current industry standards an important statute that, once it becomes law, will permanently shine the bright light of public disclosure on a range of chemicals that consumers encounter in a diverse array of products they use each and every day," said Rush whose subcommittee has jurisdiction over TSCA enforcement. "I appreciate the tremendous work, testimony, analysis and public comments that a variety of stakeholders and consumer groups have shared as we’ve worked to craft a piece of legislation that both protects consumers while respecting the right of private industry to innovate while protecting businesses’ confidentiality, trade secrets and intellectual property rights. We are working with all deliberate speed, in this session of Congress, to update a law that is of major importance to American consumers," said Rush whose committee will hold a hearing on this legislation next Thursday. "Reform of the Toxic Substances Control Act is long-overdue," said Chairman Henry A. Waxman. "Over the past few months, at the request of affected industries, Chairman Rush and I led a robust stakeholder process that involved a serious and candid exchange of views on TSCA reform. This process was extremely valuable and productive. The result is the bill introduced today, which will protect public health and the environment while promoting American jobs and innovation. Under this legislation, all chemicals will be reviewed for safety, dangerous chemicals will be restricted or eliminated, and new, safer chemicals will be developed more rapidly to move our economy toward a sustainable future. There is much work still ahead, but I am confident that today’s legislation marks a critical step on the road toward reforming TSCA and enacting a smart and safe chemical policy for America." Over the last two decades, a number of statutory and regulatory barriers to effective implementation of TSCA have been identified, and there has been a growing consensus that TSCA should be amended. In 2009, the Government Accountability Office named TSCA a "high-risk" priority, and one of the areas most in need of broad reform. Over the past year, the Environmental Protection Agency and other stakeholders, including the American Chemistry Council and a broad coalition of public health, labor, and environmental groups, have issued principles enumerating their priorities for legislation. In addition, many other stakeholders have articulated their views on how to reform TSCA. The legislation is posted on the homepage of the Committee on Energy and Commerce’s website (https://energycommerce.house.gov). ###
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good afternoon. Today we are pleased to welcome seven witnesses representing the Federal Trade Commission, consumers, and industry--especially businesses with an Internet presence and whose main line of business is to create and sell advertising. I would like to thank them for taking time out of their busy schedules to share their perspectives on consumer privacy as well as to outline what they view as appropriate offline, and online, business privacy protection and personal information use practices. "Have you ever been in the midst of a group of people and heard someone say, "What's said in this room stays in this room?" As someone in that room, you know, just from that statement, that what may be said could be juicy enough, sensitive enough, or valuable enough to tempt one of the persons in that room to violate that compact by leaking that information to people who were not in the room during the discussion. The very utterance of these words evidences a conscious intent by the participants to set the needed environmental conditions that will encourage those in the room to interact freely with one another and to share data and information, without the fear that that very information will harm them economically, emotionally, or otherwise at some point in the future. "As an avid user of the Internet and a person interested in technology, communications, and all things digital, I know there is no free lunch when I go onto an Internet website to read or view content--especially when I am not paying for that content. That Internet website and the advertisers who underwrite the overhead and operating costs of that website know that my information--whether it can be used to identify who I am, or whether it gets merged with other users' information-- has substantial value and can be ‘monetized' when it is provided to others. "Before the House was scheduled to adjourn for its August recess, I thought it was imperative, on Monday of this week, to introduce privacy legislation in the form of H.R. 5777, the BEST PRACTICES Act. "I also thought it was important that we quickly hold a hearing, in this subcommittee, on the assorted pros and cons of my bill as well as the issues outlined in a discussion draft released by Chairman Boucher and Ranking Member Stearns of the Communications, Internet and Technology Subcommittee. "The BEST PRACTICES Act speaks to a host of issues affecting consumer privacy, including consumers' expectations as to how their personal information should be handled, shared, and disclosed to third parties. This legislation also addresses other important issues including what defaults should be set in connection with those expectations to provide regulatory certainty to industry and to investors; what safeguards should be crafted to anticipate foreseeable abuses and violations of consumers' privacy expectations; which sets of remedies will make consumers whole in the event of a privacy breach; and how to calibrate penalties and other possible legal causes of action without chilling industry incentives to innovate and grow their businesses. "This legislation also addresses to what extent, if any, should the privacy framework set forth in my bill preempt state privacy laws and regulations. "In holding this hearing, I would like to get a better handle on how extensively personal information gets shared without individuals' understanding and consent. I also want to shine a spotlight on some of the actual harms that befall individual users through no fault of their own. "With that I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.21.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning. Thank you, Chairman Waxman, for scheduling today's important markup. Four out of the five legislative measures we are considering, today, were favorably reported out the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection that I chair. "Before asking for your support on these important pieces of legislation, I would like bring to your attention a sad reality. What makes our economic recovery complicated is not the recession, itself, but the fact that we are facing severe competition from developing countries. Yes, developing countries! "While it may make all of us feel a bit more comfortable to refer to these nations as "emerging markets," the fact of the matter is that the competition is real. "If we don't act now, next year—let me say that again—next year, China will become the most preeminent manufacturing economy in the world. "China will rightfully hold the title of being one of the world's leading strategic resources. Once the currency manipulation issue with the United States is resolved, they will simply transfer their manufacturing capabilities to so-called "new frontiers" like Africa where, in that nation, they are already establishing an industrial trade zone. India, Brazil and other nations are, likewise, steadily growing their economies. Obviously they have a strategy and that strategy is working. "I am glad that Congressman Lipinski has introduced H.R. 4692 "the National Manufacturing Strategy Act of 2010" and that Congresswoman Matsui, Chairman Emeritus Dingell and I have introduced H.R. 5156, the "Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act of 2010," amended. Both of these bills will help to make our clean energy and manufacturing industries globally competitive and, of course, help create job growth in America. "The two other bills I am asking you to support, today, are aimed at protecting American consumers. H.R. 4678, the "Foreign Manufacturer Legal Accountability Act of 2010," amended, introduced by Congresswoman Betty Sutton, and H.R. 3655, "The Bereaved Consumers' Bill of Rights Act of 2010," amended, a piece of legislation that I introduced. "Recent incidents in my home State of Illinois and in Arlington National Cemetery sadly demonstrate that regardless of their stature—be it religious or secular affiliation, for-profit or non-profit status or, even, government-led organizations—no matter its standing or its oversight, it's clear to me and many others throughout this nation that all cemeteries need to be regulated. They all serve the same sacred purpose, which is to honor and respect the remains of our loved ones. I urge my colleagues to support these bills. "In my remaining time, I would be remiss if I do not publicly acknowledge the hard work and commitment of my capable and resourceful subcommittee staff which, at times, has included volunteers from other subcommittees' staff. "All my staff, from the chief counsel to my interns, has done a yeoman's job, this session, in helping Members to prepare for hearings and markups, draft complex pieces of legislation for introduction and consideration while, at the same time, helping to move a considerable number of bills through the committee process. "And for all of that and more, I say "thank you" for the work you do for the subcommittee and, especially, for the American people. "With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.20.2010	At the conclusion of a private meeting in his Capitol Hill office with a group of Chicago teens concerned about the state of public education, the lack of employment opportunities and escalating youth violence, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) (right) walked the Youth Empowerment Project group down the hall for an impromptu meeting with U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan. The secretary, who was already scheduled to meet with members of the Congressional Black Caucus, and the long-time legislator, entertained a number of questions from the vocal student-activists. Congressman Rush has introduced a series of bills designed to protect, strengthen, empower and educate America’s youth, including a $8 billion youth employment bill and legislation that requires mandatory conflict resolution services for students at schools plagued by violence. ###
07.20.2010	WASHINGTON - "First, let me begin by thanking all of you for welcoming me here to share a few remarks with you this morning. I commend the organizers of this event-including Joseph Miller and the IT entrepreneur, Kristal High, one of the dynamic women behind "Politics 365," as well as other event organizers for inviting me to join you this morning. "I'm particularly pleased to be able to weigh in on a conference of this caliber whose focus, this year, is "Access to Capital and Telecom Policy." "As most of you know, for years-from my days as an activist in Chicago through the years I've served my community, state and nation as a leader on Capitol Hill-one of my top priorities has always been to work to make sure that when resources are apportioned that they are done so equitably, fairly and in an open and above board fashion that welcomes the full participation of men and women of color, especially in the African American community. "As many of you know, access to working capital and term financing for equipment loans by minority-owned startups, and even well established minority firms, has been a chronic problem in the United States for several generations. That was even the case when I first came to Congress, 18 years ago, where I began to serve on what is now referred to as the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet. "Unfortunately, that lack of access to capital is still the case, today! "The sad fact of the matter is that talented, minority entrepreneurs may be long on ideas but are still short on access to capital in the year 2010. "One thing that has changed dramatically since I came to Congress is that large, seven figure amounts of capital are not needed as much as before in getting a communications or media business up and going. "Nowadays, with mastery of the Internet, the presence of more robust and less costly research databases, and increased globalization and outsourcing the sky's the limit for aggressive and innovative entrepreneurs. Why? "Because it, literally, costs but a fraction of what it once did to conduct market research, design prototypes, or develop sound business ideas that can lead to the launch of media and communications businesses that are capable of generating hundreds of millions and, even, billions of dollars in revenues! "What this means is that barriers to entry are, now, much lower for new entrants than they were in the past. "Today, the current climate of reduced levels of capital, along with the continuing convergence of technologies and services, means that you, as entrepreneurs, and the enterprises you form are likely to face more competition in the next decade. "In today's marketplace, what lower barriers to entry also means is that firms that do not quickly provide competitive and distinctive products and services, or those that are unable to adapt and increase their offerings, will be more short-lived in the marketplace than firms that make these adjustments. And how can they do this? Access to capital certainly plays a role. "Needless to say ladies and gentlemen, it's always been my observation-both in Chicago's business community and in the national arena-that it's minority-owned firms that, by definition, have to work harder and think smarter just to get ahead. "In fact, the talent in our community rarely lacks for solid ideas or, even, expertise. What they often lack is a supportive vision by those who can invest in their good ideas and professional track record by taking that leap of faith that's necessary to help their dreams become a reality. "Hopefully, the effort those of you are making, today, by simply convening this conference will mark a major step forward in helping to open those doors of access to capital to those who are ready, willing and able to put it to good use. "I am sure that many of you have heard lots of stories along these lines in the various presentations you've heard and participated in during this conference, especially as it relates to issues of cash flow. Cash flow is important to investors and lenders for many reasons, including its use as a key indicator of a business's health and the quality of its profits but, also, as an indicator of a firm's liquidity. "Likewise, liquidity is also of paramount importance to investors – especially to early stage investors – who are continually on the lookout for the right time to liquidate their equity positions so they can reallocate, or reinvest, those profits in other businesses or, simply, book those profits for the benefit of their shareholders. "But even considering circumstances like those I've just described, it will always be critically important to be able to show that your business can generate a healthy cash flow because that cash flow is likely to make financial institutions, including banks, venture capital, private equity firms, and even the government, to be much more likely to take a stake in, and make loans to your business. "In the time I have left, I'm sure most of you could benefit from a few of my thoughts on some of the recent congressional, White House, and FCC initiatives which have been in the news lately. Especially those activities that help promote minority ownership of communications, media, technology businesses, related assets and FCC licenses. "One promising move that was highlighted in a recent speech by one of the President's chief economic policy advisors, Lawrence Summers, was the fact that the Recovery Act included more than $100 billion in innovative investments to help, in part, spur growth in health information technology to create jobs while transforming our nation's health system. "That's $100 billion dollars that the federal government has committed to spend over the next several years that is designed, in part, to serve as a catalyst to spur additional spending in the private sector. While we're doing our part, despite considerable opposition from the other party on Capitol Hill, as I alluded to earlier, a number of key media and communications businesses are constantly adapting their business models to respond to converging technologies or, as some call it, a "collision" of trends. "These trends, which are elevating social networking, mobile, and cloud-based services and applications, above and beyond more traditional analog-based and mass media services and applications, have complicated our customary approaches to the classification and regulation of these services under the common carrier, radio, broadcast, cable, and private carrier titles and regulations of the Communications Act. "In response to these trends, this past May, Senators Rockefeller and Kerry, and Representatives Waxman and Boucher, who are the respective chairs of the committees of jurisdiction over communications matters in the Senate and the House of Representatives, indicated that they would commence a stakeholder, bi-partisan, bicameral process to develop proposals updating the Communications Act. "What this updating can lead to is more certainty about which business, marketing, technical, and operating decisions will be permissible and which will not. Having this certainty, especially as it relates to how consumers would like to use broadband technologies and how companies can provide communications, media, and technology products and services as efficiently as possible will bring more investment to minority enterprises. "We have come to a point where the dominant technologies that power communications and the creation and delivery of media content have outgrown much of our obsolete regulatory regime and many of those deadlocked approaches. "As I've already said, early stage investors love nothing more about an investment than seeing consistent revenue growth and knowing when an opportune time emerges to cash out of that investment. Such consistent performance in financial results and reporting is fostered, not hindered, by regulatory certainty. "Without seeing that consistency, investors will invariably be more reluctant to take risks by investing in firms that do not have steady ‘rules of the road' to guide them. Without steady rules, those firms will have more trouble finding new ‘onramps' to competition, knowing where the speed bumps are, and where the speed limits allow them to step on the accelerator. Investors already have enough excuses, excuse me, I meant reasons, for not investing in some of your deals. Let's do what we can to take some of those reasons off of your bargaining tables. "Let me say again, thank you so much for inviting me to spend some time with you this morning to share some of my thoughts, insights, and perspectives on these critical topics. It's going to take all of us to think creatively, and in new ways, in order to reverse the significant losses in minority ownership we have sustained in just the last decade. "And, so, I urge you to come and see me if you have an idea as to how government can distribute licenses and facilitate the creation of business opportunities and arrangements in which minorities can share equitably in the next decade of the digital revolution."I'm happy to hear any questions that you may have at this time." ###
07.19.2010	{CHICAGO - (Congressman Bobby L. Rush D-IL) today urged members of the U.S. Senate to stop obstructing passage of critical legislation that would boost America's economic recovery; reduce the number of people standing in Illinois' unemployment lines; and, provide relief for those in between jobs."People are hurting out here like never before," Rep. Rush said. “Unemployment benefits are often the only means of survival for people in between jobs. People in Illinois must let the Senate know they want relief now."As of June 30, there are 693,900 people (10.4 percent) unemployed in Illinois--nearly one percent worse than the national unemployment rate of 9.5 percent in the same period. Over the past several months, the U.S. House has passed a host of bills that would create jobs and stimulate the economy but bills have hit a roadblock in the U.S. Senate. Republicans in the Senate have blocked legislation that would extend unemployment benefits, fund youth employment, and provide emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs. They are also impeding the funding of the National Housing Trust Fund, which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve, and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for low-income families.Other provisions being blocked by Senate Republicans would:Provide important tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families;Help restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs;Expand career training programs for Americans who are looking for work;Extend eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own;Ensure that seniors, military service members, and Americans with disabilities continue to have access to doctors they know and trust; andClose tax loopholes for wealthy investment fund managers and foreign operations of multi-national companies.“Apparently, the Republicans believe the American people haven't suffered enough," Rep. Rush said. “They still want people to decide whether or not to pay rent or buy food or medicine. How long must we wait for our political leaders to take action? Now is the time to let the Senate Republicans know that we must put America back to work and to stop playing economic “Russian Roulette" with the lives of millions of people."###
07.19.2010	CHICAGO -- Today Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) said the "pervasive culture of violence" and the "total disregard for human life" is what led to the shooting death of a well-liked, veteran Chicago Police officer on Sunday. The legislator said 62-year-old 1st District Officer Michael Bailey, who was killed in front of his South Side home in an apparent robbery attempt, was a good human being who loved both his family and extended one—his community."On behalf of my wife Carolyn and I, as well as the people of the 1st Congressional District, I offer my heartfelt condolences to Michael Bailey's family, colleagues and community," said Rep. Rush. "There is a pervasive culture of violence sweeping across America and it renders us all helpless against those who have a total disregard for human life. What are we dying for; cars, motorcycles or other material trinkets that have no real value?"Officer Bailey was a man of great character---one who loved his both his real family and his extended one within the community," he continued. "Let us honor Officer Bailey's life by committing ourselves to service, to working to make our city and nation better, and by being good human beings."###
07.19.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, introduced The BEST PRACTICES Act of 2010. On Thursday, July 22, 2010, the subcommittee will hold a hearing to consider the BEST PRACTICES Act of 2010, as well as a privacy discussion draft that was released by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet, U.S. Rep. Rick Boucher in May. "I am pleased to introduce the Best Practices Act, which speaks to a host of issues affecting consumer privacy that were raised in a series of substantive hearings, held jointly with the Subcommittee on Communications, Internet, and Technology. In those hearings, the Subcommittees and invited witnesses delved into the myriad ways that consumer privacy can be violated, their personal and sensitive information exposed, and which sets of remedies and penalties will make consumers whole and deter industry abuses of consumer privacy, without chilling industry incentives to innovate and grow their businesses. I believe we've achieved that delicate balance with the legislation we are introducing today," said Chairman Rush whose subcommittee, along with the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology & the Internet has held five hearings on the subject in this session of Congress. Added Rep. Boucher, "I applaud Chairman Rush for his work in assembling his bill. My goal in advancing draft privacy legislation with Cliff Stearns has been to draw attention to the important matters of conferring privacy rights on individuals; informing them of the personal information that is collected and shared about them; and giving them greater control over the collection, use and sharing of that information. I am pleased that Chairman Rush's subcommittee, which is the subcommittee of jurisdiction, is continuing the process of examining those privacy rights. It is what I hoped would happen when Mr. Stearns and I circulated a staff discussion draft of a privacy measure, and I look forward to working with Chairman Rush throughout this process." The BEST PRACTICES Act of 2010, is a consumer privacy bill that establishes a flexible framework of basic rights for consumers while also outlining obligations for companies based on fair information principles. The bill is technology neutral, covering both online and offline companies that collect, use, and retain information about consumers. The following is a brief summary of key provisions in the bill: Ensure that consumers have meaningful choices about the collection, use, and disclosure of their personal information. Require companies that collect personal information to disclose their practices with respect to the collection, use, disclosure, merging, and retention of personal information, and explain consumers' options regarding those practices. Require companies to provide disclosures of their practices in concise, meaningful, timely, and easy-to-understand notices, and direct the Federal Trade Commission to establish flexible and reasonable standards and requirements for such notices. Require companies to obtain "opt-in" consent to disclose information to a third party. In the bill, the term, "third party" would be defined based on consumers' reasonable expectations rather than corporate structure. Establish a "safe harbor" that would exempt companies from the "opt-in" consent requirement, provided those companies participate in a universal opt-out program operated by self-regulatory bodies and monitored by FTC. Require companies to have reasonable procedures to assure the accuracy of the personal information they collect. The bill would also require the companies to provide consumers with reasonable access to, and the ability to correct or amend, certain information. Require companies to have reasonable procedures to secure information and to retain personal information only as long as is necessary to fulfill a legitimate business or law enforcement need. ### NOTE: Here’s a link to the pdf version of the bill:
07.15.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning. Thank you, Chairman Waxman for scheduling today's important markup. Among the five legislative measures we are taking action on today, three of the bills came before and were favorably reported out of my subcommittee, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, on June 30, 2010. "Before trying to rally support among the full Committee for these three bills, I want to address the obvious importance of H.R. 5626, the “Blowout Prevention Act." "As Americans bear witness, day after day, to the tens of millions of gallons of crude oil that has gushed into the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. government has tried mightily to understand what caused the explosion and the resulting blowout. "H.R. 5626 will enhance well control maintenance to ensure proper controls over conditions within well bores, and also establishes standards and procedures that further the proper use of appropriate safety equipment, and practices, during drilling activities at covered oil and gas wells. "The economic and non-pecuniary losses associated with the on-going Macondo oil well spill has been staggering and mount, exponentially, on a daily basis. Some studies have estimated that the tourism-related areas of Alabama, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, and Mississippi are responsible for as much as 15 percent of the total job base in those areas, and that leisure travel and recreational fishing and charter boat reservations are down by as much as 50 percent and 90 percent, respectively, in at least one of those states. "These highly alarming statistics attest to the devastating effects of the Macondo oil spill on these states’ economies and the balance sheets and financial statements of affected tourism businesses. "These people, their businesses, and the means by which they make their livings must not and will not be ignored by this committee. "I have directed my subcommittee staff to begin preparing for a hearing, later this month, on the Macondo oil spill’s impact on the tourism industry in the Gulf States. What we hope to accomplish through that hearing is to provide key and valuable information about government and, possibly, other assistance which may be available to travel and tourism companies doing business in and around the gulf. "In this way, the Committee on Energy and Commerce will continue to help the tourism industry and those workers that rely heavily on visitor spending to overcome the miserable conditions in which they find themselves. And perhaps, in even a small way, this committee’s actions might help to mitigate some of the severe losses already suffered by the people and businesses in the Gulf Coast States." "In my time remaining, I'd like all of you to know that H.R. 2480, the "Truth in Fur Labeling Act of 2010," H.R. 4501, the "Guarantee of a Legitimate Deal Act," and H.R. 1796, the "Residential Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act" are all high caliber bills, which should be reported favorably out of the full committee today. "My subcommittee has held several hearings on these three bills to evaluate their respective merits, identify potential areas for improvement, and to consider alternatives for achieving critical safety and consumer protection objectives while, at the same time, imposing the least burdens possible on affected stakeholders and industries. "And, finally, I would be remiss if I did not publicly acknowledge the hard work and commitment of my highly capable and resourceful subcommittee staff which, at times, has included volunteers from other subcommittees’ staff. My staff has done a yeoman's job this session in helping Members to prepare for hearings and markups, draft complex legislation for introduction and consideration, and helping to move a considerable number of bills through the committee process. And for all of that and more, I say "thank you" for the work you do for the subcommittee and, especially, for the American people. "With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.14.2010	WASHINGTON -- "The subcommittee will come to order. I want to thank the members of the subcommittee who have joined us, today, for participating in this legislative hearing. "This afternoon, we will examine a very important bill introduced, in February, by my dear friend from Illinois, Congressman Dan Lipinski. I commend him for his leadership on this issue. "H.R. 4692, the National Manufacturing Strategy Act of 2010, has bipartisan support from Members of Congress, including many who serve on this subcommittee. "Addressing manufacturing issues is not new to this subcommittee. Last year, we highlighted the need to make the exportation of manufactured goods a national priority for the simple fact that America's manufacturing sector is an essential foundation of our nation's economy. Consider the fact that in 2009, the manufacturing sector employed more than 11.5 million people. "Ladies and gentlemen, that number, though significant is not as good as it could be when you consider that, 10 years ago America's manufacturing sector employed 17.3 million people—meaning that our nation actually lost 5.8 million jobs between 1999 and 2009. "The bill we're considering, today, seeks to make a significant difference in helping to restore and reposition our nation's manufacturing capacity so that American workers can better compete in today's global economy. "Today, we are still fighting our way through a global financial crisis, and we are facing aggressive competition from other industrialized nations as well as emerging countries. Some of our manufacturing competitors have designed and implemented five- or 10-year strategic plans to allow their economies to not only complete globally but, also, to export their goods to our market here at home. The sad fact of the matter is that these international markets are not reciprocating by welcoming U.S. goods to their marketplace. "In recent years the U.S. has actually lost market share to growing export countries like China, Southeast Asia and India. "If we do not act now, this steady decline will persist. We simply cannot allow that to happen and, thankfully, President Obama agrees. "I commend the President for the significant steps he has already taken to strengthen our manufacturing sector. "The President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology continues its assessment of the state of our nation's manufacturing sector, its policies and initiatives. Their efforts are moving steadily toward a set of recommendations designed to strengthen our nation's manufacturing sector. "With H.R. 4692, the bill we are considering today, we take a major step forward toward this shared goal. This bill requires the President to undertake a deep and broad analysis of the nation's manufacturing sector, including the international economic environment, related technological developments, workforce elements, the impact of governmental policies and other relevant issues affecting domestic manufacturers. "Based on this analysis, the President, in collaboration with key cabinet officials within his Administration as well as governors, state and local elected officials and other key stakeholders in the public and private sectors, will develop a four- year national strategy that identifies goals and makes recommendations to improve our nation's economic growth. "Key provisions of this legislation include a provision requiring that the proposed national strategy be delivered to Congress and that it also be published on a website to allow the American people to be able to monitor, for themselves, our efforts to change course as we work to return the American workforce to the front of the line in terms of manufacturing skills and innovation. "It is my sincere hope that this legislation, combined with concerted efforts by the public and private sectors, will mark a sea change in our culture that will help our manufacturing sector become bigger, bolder and better than it was in the past. "The good news is, ladies and gentlemen, that I am convinced that those of us who are assembled here, today, share the same passion on this subject that I do. "And with that, I look forward to hearing from my colleagues on this subcommittee as well as our invited guests. "Thank you very much and I yield the balance of my time." ###
07.13.2010	CHICAGO—Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) issued the following statement upon learning of the death of veteran radio and television personality Jon Alexander Daye, who died July 8 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital after a brief illness. The outspoken journalist served in a number of media capacities over his 40-year career including working as a radio personality at WVON-AM and hosting the long-time public affairs television show "News Talk." "Jon had a distinctive voice and a distinctive message," said Rep. Rush. "He was a bold messenger who delivered news and information in an uncompromising style. He had a command of the issues and knew how to draw his audiences in and keep them there---and because of his sometimes on-air advocacy he often brought about social and political change to the people who needed it most. On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District, my wife Carolyn and I, express our deepest condolences to his family. He will be missed." A native of Helena, Arkansas, Daye was also founder and president of the Kizzy Award which recognized women for their professional accomplishments and community service; the Success Awards, which honored notable men; and, the Black Woman Hall of Fame Foundation which saluted a long list of women luminaries with the Bethune-Tubman Truth Award. He is survived by fiancée’ Bernadine Whitehurst, daughters Christy Robinson and Tracy Landing, a number of grandchildren, family and friends. Visitation will be held Friday, July 16 from 3 PM to 9 PM at Leak & Sons Funeral Home, 78th Street and Cottage Grove. Funeral services for Daye will be held Saturday, July 17 at 10AM at Greater Mt. Vernon Baptist Church, 8700 S. Laflin. ###
07.13.2010	WASHINGTON -- "On Sunday, America lost an amazing man of God, a family man, and a man whose unique, spirit-filled gospel music abilities literally touched, moved and in many ways helped to heal the broken spirits of the faithful in our nation and throughout the world. As his family and the global community mourns the death of Bishop Walter Hawkins, I will remember him as a friend, a fellow pastor in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and a role model for young people and people of faith, now, and for years to come. "Bishop Hawkins' transcendent music ministry will be remembered for its power and breathtaking instrumentation. Beginning in 1969 when he and his brother, Edwin, first brought their unique song stylings in "Oh Happy Day" to a secular culture, their powerful delivery turned the gospel music industry on its head. This song had the rare distinction of becoming the first gospel-themed recording to cross over onto the pop music charts. Later, when Walter's faith led him to study God's word by earning a master's degree from U.C. Berkeley and, then, launching the Love Center Church in Oakland, California, he continued to refine his own unique gospel style. My life and that of so many people I know is truly better for it. "Over the years, our nation has been blessed with what I consider to be some true gospel music classics—everything from "Going Up Yonder," to "Changed" and "What Is This?" His performance of "The Lord's Prayer," from the series of "Love Alive" albums, won a Grammy. "On a personal note, I'm proud to say that he graced a gospel tribute during a Congressional Black Caucus Foundation conference and that he and his dynamic ministry made a lasting impression with me and so many others who attended that evening. The spirit of God was truly with us that night and Walter Hawkins was a splendid conveyor of His word. "My wife, Carolyn, and I join people of faith throughout our nation in remembering this remarkable leader, father and musical genius. We wish God's peace and blessings upon his family and his ministry now and always." ###
07.08.2010	CHICAGO -- "Thank you, Chairman Boucher. Good morning, Chicago. And good morning, to each of our witnesses. "On that day, should Comcast and NBC-Universal secure their last approval from federal and state regulators to combine their highly attractive, and lucrative, distribution and video programming assets, a very powerful and influential media and information colossus will be born. If that day comes, this combined entity will have the immediate power to determine what our nation watches, what we read, from where we get our news and, even, on which electronic and communications devices those images and data will appear. "The $28 billion joint venture between Comcast and NBC-Universal would give Comcast, already the country's largest cable and home broadband company, total say and control over the day-to-day operations of the NBC network; the Telemundo network; NBC's two dozen national cable network channels--including MSNBC, Bravo and CNBC--and partial interests in the Weather Channel, A&E's History and Biography channels; NBC Network News, "The Today Show," "NBC Sunday Night Football," "Meet the Press," and distribution rights to a library of more than 55,000 TV episodes, not to mention the Universal Pictures movie studio and distribution companies. "Many of the purported benefits of this proposed combination have been framed in terms of when and where subscribers will realize benefits. Some of the more widely touted subscriber benefits, put forward by the two parties, are that Comcast cable TV subscribers will be able to see movies more quickly after the first showings in theaters, or that because of this transaction, TV shows will appear faster on subscribers' cell phones, video-on-demand web sites and other digital media platforms and devices. "These ‘whens' and ‘wheres' are absolutely important. However, I am equally concerned about what cable television, broadcast TV, news, public affairs, religious and community programs, sporting events and movie content that will not be made available to subscribers of Comcast's competitors, or to the competitors of Comcast's new affiliates. "And, will the same content that is offered to Comcast broadband subscribers, also be made available to all broadband users, regardless of whom they subscribe to for broadband service? "Despite the critical importance of program access and the equitable carriage of network affiliates on Comcast's cable systems, the most important issue of access, as far as I am concerned, is minority ownership. "I am cognizant of the commitments that Comcast made publicly, last month, towards increasing diversity of ownership and diversity in programming. Specifically, Comcast's commitments to distribute six cable network channels (over the next three years) and to see that half of those channels are minority-owned or run represents an important and positive, initial step forward towards increased minority ownership. "But these commitments do not go far enough. "Minority owners and investors must have better seats at the board room table, not just in the movie theaters wearing 3-D glasses or holding set-top box remote controls in their living rooms. "If this merger is truly going to be in the public interest, Comcast and NBC-Universal will have to do more, for and with minorities than what they have offered to do to date. Simply put, the economic stakes are high and we, as legislators, would be negligent on behalf of all taxpayers and others whom we represent if we fail to shine a bright light of openness and full disclosure on how Comcast and NBC, on the one hand, secure regulatory support for their own corporate interests without ensuring that their interests are not the only ones served by this transaction. "I look forward to hearing the testimony of the witnesses. I hope that our hearing will assist me, and others, in learning more about how minority owners of communications, media, and technology companies, minority holders of FCC licenses, minority investors, and non-minority investors willing to invest in minority-owned companies and start-ups can play a bigger role as owners in this mammoth transaction and in the economic opportunities that lie ahead. "Indeed, more room must be made for these entrepreneurs, investors, and business professionals to provide Comcast's 24 million cable subscribers--about two million of whom are right here in the Chicago metropolitan area--and its 15 million high-speed Internet customers with high quality services, diverse perspectives and "know-how." "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the time you've accorded to me today. With that, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.08.2010	CHICAGO -Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush expressed his condolences regarding the death of Chicago Police Officer Thor Soderberg, who was shot and killed Wednesday afternoon in the Englewood community. The legislator said it is up to law enforcement and the people they serve to do all they can to eradicate the culture of violence impacting many neighborhoods. "Officer Soderberg is a hero to our city and I join millions of people across our city, state and nation in expressing condolences to his family, colleagues and friends," Rep. Rush said. "This 43-year-old public servant sounds like an exceptional leader who cared about people-a fact illustrated by his work to train other officers in police procedure and protocol, as well as his volunteerism with disabled athletes and others. "Every citizen is charged with doing all they can to help eradicate the culture of violence impacting our communities," he continued. "None of us are safe until all of us are safe and we can only be safe when we rid our neighborhoods of illegal weapons, drugs, gangs, joblessness and hopelessness. We all owe a great debt to Officer Soderberg-and with united action against violence, we can only begin to repay him." ###
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON –– Yesterday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) read the statement, below, on the floor of the House that acknowledges the broad, bipartisan support for H. Res. 1405, a resolution that congratulates the people of the 17 African nations that, in 2010, are marking the 50th year of their national independence. Today, in an historic unanimous vote in the House, Rush's resolution passed with a 410 – 0 vote. Rush, who serves as chair of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection as well as co-chair, with U. S. Rep. Donald Payne, of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGc), introduced this resolution with 51 co-sponsors from both parties. Rush's statement, in its entirety, read as follows: "Madam Speaker, I'd like to begin by thanking Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Howard Berman and Africa and Global Health Subcommittee Chairman Donald Payne for their strong support of this resolution. I also want to thank Congresswoman Yvette Clarke and Congressman Ed Royce for their constant leadership on African issues. "This year, 17 African nations are celebrating the 50th anniversary of their independence. "1960 was an important year for those former French, British and Italian colonies and protectorates. The triumphant march of a series of hard fought victories that led to independence started on January 1st with the nation of Cameroon and it ended on November 28, 1960, with the nation of Mauritania securing its independence from France. "The resolution I am bringing to the floor, today, will honor the sacrifices of the founding fathers of these African nations. Little did they know, then, that a proud and supportive United States of America, today, would enter into our nation's permanent history this well deserved tribute to the thousands of unsung men and women who gave their lives based on the simple dream of freedom and a desire to assert their self-determination over the life that God gave them. "We, in the United States of America, know something about that! "Chief among these visionary African leaders are Amadou Ahidjo in Cameroon; Kwame Nkrumah in Ghana; Patrice Lumumba in the Democratic Republic of Congo; Leopold Senghor in Senegal; Thomas Sankara in Burkina Faso; Felix Houphouet Boigny in Cote d'Ivoire; and Julius Nyerere in Tanzania. "This resolution honors the lives of the tens of thousands of patriots—including innocent civilians—who died, were imprisoned, or otherwise dedicated their lives, often at great personal sacrifice, to achieving African political independence. "It also commends the socio-economic and political progress being made by these nations, while acknowledging the associated challenges that many still face. "Many of these nations have become democracies and are striving to break the links to past oppressions. Men and women of good faith work tirelessly to overcome the remnants of colonialism, neocolonialism, internal and regional wars and their own bureaucratic hurdles. "They also face serious challenges beyond their control, which have been exacerbated by growing threats from the global financial crisis, climate change and terrorism. Whether self-inflicted, inherited or just plain bad luck, many African nations' lack of infrastructure has rendered their governments incapable of providing for their citizens and protecting their own borders. Despite numerous challenges, many of the African nations we salute today are becoming economically, politically and strategically important to the United States. "The United States simply cannot afford to take Africa for granted, nor can it afford to mistakenly see Africa as a desperate continent forever in need of charity from our nation. "Africa's growing economic importance is reflected in intensified efforts by China, Russia, India, Iran and other nations who seek to gain access to Africa's vast natural resources. These interests and more constantly seek to advance and strengthen their ties to the region. "Some say we may need Africa more than Africa needs us, and it is clear that many African leaders are beginning to think the same. Both sides are mistaken. We need each other, now, more than ever. It is time to solidify our economic and strategic partnership. "I and others who support this resolution commend President Obama for his leadership in making our mutually beneficial partnership a reality by signing a Bi-National Commissions agreement with South Africa, Angola and Nigeria. We hope that the United States will soon adopt a similar strategic agreement with the entire Gulf of Guinea region. "While the U.S. pursues an energy policy that seeks to decrease its dependence on foreign oil and its toxic contributions to global warming, it is essential that the U.S. also provide support to these key strategic partners to help them reduce carbon emissions, oil spills and gas flaring associated with meeting our market needs while alternative sources of energy are scaled up. "The White House has announced that President Obama will be hosting these 17 African heads of state—and a group of younger, emerging leaders within these nations—at a celebration that will mark the 50-year anniversary later this summer. "I'd like to take this opportunity to commend our President for calling this summit. It was long over due. I hope the invitation will be extended to other African nations as well. As professor Paul Collier wrote in a recent article, "The Case for Investing in Africa," "The continent is now growing much more rapidly than the OECD nations. It may well be on the cusp of a reversal of fortune." "It is time to revisit our relationship with the continent of Africa and to define a more comprehensive approach. "I will encourage the Administration to establish a commission that will create a platform where human rights groups, the civil society, U.S. and African governments, financial institutions, the private sector and the Diaspora can formulate and implement a mutually beneficial, and coordinated, policy framework that advances economic growth and prosperity in Africa. This new construct should strengthen the strategic, political, economic, humanitarian and cultural ties between the United States and Africa. "It's worth noting that the U.S. has taken several steps that underline Africa's increasing importance. "Africa's unique development and security challenges demand significant attention and a comprehensive policy approach that acknowledges American commitment to the continent of Africa. Our economy and its recovery are far more dependent on Africa than we have acknowledged, to date, and so, too, is our national security."For all of these reasons, I urge you to vote for House Resolution 1405, which celebrates the 50-year anniversary of 17 African nations, recognizes that Africa is of significant strategic, political,economic, and humanitarian importance to the United States, renews the commitment of the United States to help the people of sub-Saharan Africa to foster democratic rule, advance civic freedom, and promote market-based economic growth, and to alleviate the burden of poverty and disease that so many in the region continue to face. "This is only a first step into Africa's much needed transition into the global economy. However, this step is the right one as we undertake the long overdue transformation in our own approach toward Africa." ###
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, before a rapt audience of reporters in our nation's capitol, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) spoke from the heart as he powerfully reminded his audience and, indeed, today's generation of citizens about the reign of terror that the recently convicted, former Chicago Police Commander Jon Burge wreaked on untold numbers of prisoners who were imprisoned under his watch. This morning, Rush stood in solidarity with U. S. Rep. Danny Davis (D-IL-07), as an original co-sponsor of Davis' "Law Enforcement Torture Prevention Act," and Illinois Senator Roland Burris who, together, expressed their support for Davis' bill which seeks to establish a criminal penalty without a statute of limitations for torture by law enforcement officers. Rush's statement, in its entirety, is as follows: "It's about time that we start dealing with law enforcement officers who take our hurt and our pain for granted as well as those who use our hurt and our pain, and our resources, to violate innocent people. "Burge cannot dodge, this time, and he's been found accountable before the courts of this nation. But he's been willing to delay, and to dodge, for almost 40 years. We've allowed those who are responsible for this miscarriage of justice to escape justice far too long. This situation reminds me of the statement that ‘justice delayed is justice denied.' "So even though we are happy and glad with a sense of relief that U. S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald and his ample and capable team of law enforcement officers and U. S. attorneys have used whatever measures and whatever powers they had to bring forth a sense of justice to not only the victims of Burge and his terror but,also, the Chicago Police Department, as they are also victims, the victims who are minority, the victims who are African American. "But in one sense this entire nation is a victim of Burge's torture tactics. If you remember back during those times, then you should take a moment to recall what was going on in the early1970s. We were astounded by what happened at My Lai in terms of the way that some of our soldiers tortured and killed some of these non-military, innocent villagers in Viet Nam at My Lai. I recall that the American people rose up and said this is not America! "At the same time that we were focused on, and fighting, to give the right impression of this nation [to the people] at My Lai to show that we repudiated those soldiers who were committing those crimes, here in our own nation in the dark cells of Chicago's jails, Burge, a former military man— a soldier—brought his art for torture from Viet Nam to his job as a commander while he proceeded to torture Americans during this same period of time. "Congressman Davis deserves a lot of credit for having the resolve to say that this will never, ever happen again. The only way that we can really assure ourselves that it will never happen again is to make sure that there's a federal law in place that will remove the statute of limitations. Any time that any law enforcement official in this nation who tortures [a prisoner] deserves to have the full brunt of the American penal system come down as hard as it can because this is not the nation that we serve, this is not the nation that we are and this is not the nation that we stand on, and highlight, as this awesome pinnacle of justice, and democracy and tolerance. This is not the nation that will tolerate torture in its legal system! "Congressman Davis, thank you for your leadership. Senator Burris, thank you for your leadership." ###
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection will now come to order. Today's mark-up will focus on H.R. 4501, the "Guarantee of a Legitimate Deal Act of 2009"; H.R. 2480, the "Truth in Fur Labeling Act of 2009"; H.R. 5156, the "Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act of 2010"; H.R. 1796, the "Residential Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act"; and H.R. 4678, the "Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act of 2010. "I commend Ranking Member Whitfield, Congressman Anthony Weiner, Congressman James Moran, Congresswoman Doris Matsui, Congressman Jim Matheson, Congresswoman Betty Sutton and Congresswoman Bono-Mack for their leadership in resolving the important issues these bills address. "Several hearings have been held on all of these bills. All objections and concerns have been raised, and addressed, and the fruits of those efforts are reflected in the actions we're undertaking today. "First, "the Guarantee of a Legitimate Deal Act" will protect consumers from unfair or deceptive practices surrounding the selling or trading of precious metals by providing a professional definition of an online seller, mandating that consumers give clear consent before their jewelry is melted or destroyed and requiring those who engage in this business to maintain websites and to be properly insured. "Second, the "Truth in Fur Labeling Act" will require all fur apparel to be labeled and permits states to apply more restrictive labeling standards. "Third, the "Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act" will help our manufacturing industry become more competitive. From environmental degradation and oil spills in the Delta of Niger, in the Gulf of Guinea, to the U.S. energy corridor in the Gulf of Mexico, now is the time for American business to step up to the plate to provide innovative, technology solutions. "This legislation has the potential to allow American businesses to assert their leadership in a sector that it once dominated. The manager's amendment will broaden the scope of the definition of clean energy technology to include coal and nuclear energy, and it clarifies that the fund is not a grant program. More importantly, the bill will ensure that our exports improve and increase domestic job creation and small business development. "Fourth, "the Residential Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act" will increase poisoning prevention through the adoption of mandatory consumer product safety standards. "This legislation will make it unlawful for any manufacturer, or distributor, to import or distribute any new assembled, or unassembled, residential carbon monoxide detector unless it complies with the new standard."And fifth, "The Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act" will allow injured American consumers to bring suit against foreign manufacturers of defective products in American courts. "I thank all the Members of this subcommittee for their contributions in developing these important pieces of legislation. As I said at the beginning of the 111th Congress, my intention is to always work in a bipartisan fashion. I am, therefore, pleased that with these five bills we have set aside our differences, reached common ground and, as a result, I think that all of us can be proud of the fruits of our labor that we are adopting today on behalf of the best interests of the American people. "My hope this morning is that we will continue that constructive, bipartisan dialogue in this markup."Thank you, again. And with that, I yield the balance of my time." ###
06.17.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning, everyone. It is a privilege to participate in today’s legislative hearing, for it raises a number of the most critical national security and public safety needs and demands that this subcommittee could possibly address. And that is to promote the nation’s public safety by ensuring multiple public safety agencies in multiple jurisdictions, including our heroic first-responders, who have reliable access to adequate wireless spectrum and interoperable equipment during times of disaster, crisis, and emergency. "These matters are very important to me, and I empathize with the frustrations of the public safety community, being proud to have co-sponsored legislation, such as Congresswoman Harman’s emergency communications bill, H.R. 3633, which helps states to supply public safety personnel with interoperable communications equipment and training. "But, what we have now is a Tower of Babel situation of sorts, where public safety agencies operate on different and non-adjacent channels and spectrum allocations. Even though these public safety agencies, officials, and workers must communicate using a common language and with no margin for delay, these problems of interoperability have slowed response efforts considerably-- costing people their lives, their homes, and their loved ones. "Despite the legitimate issues of how we will pay for these interoperable networks and what are the best approaches to promoting spectral efficiency and maximizing the utility of these frequencies for society, we are taking a vitally important step today by bringing this discussion draft up for a hearing, and refusing to ignore these problems or delay acting on them any longer. "Let me also commend Ms. Eshoo and Mr. Shimkus for introducing H.R. 4829, The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act of 2010. Based on my reading of the bill, it would accelerate the migration of voice-centric 9-1-1 services and systems to IP-enabled, next-generation 9-1-1 and emergency communications services and systems. The bill would make these services universally available and accessible to all Americans, including the disabled, and those with hearing, vision, and speech impairments. Additionally, it would provide matching grant funding assistance to eligible entities, so that we can migrate more quickly to these next-generation services, the supporting IP-enabled backbones and emergency networks for those services, and the necessary software to coordinate and interconnect our numerous emergency response organizations. "I look forward to the ensuing testimony and discussion during today’s hearing. Thank you Chairman Boucher. With that, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
06.16.2010	WASHINGTON –– This afternoon, at 4:50 p.m. EST, thanks to the amazing leadership and commitment to excellence by the students, faculty and staff of the Urban Prep Charter Academy for Young Men—Englewood Campus, in a unanimous vote Democrats and Republicans came together to support House Resolution 1414, a resolution that forever commemorates the phenomenal accomplishment of a 100 percent college acceptance rate for all 107 members of the Class of 2010. In addition to the original co-sponsors, nine more members, both Republicans and Democrats, signed on as supporters of the resolution. "Today is a day that the Lord has made and thanks to the vision of Urban Prep's President and CEO, Tim King, and these amazing, determined young African American men, all of America is rejoicing with me and their families to congratulate them on their well earned accomplishment. As I said yesterday in my speech on the floor of the House, these young men have been accepted into some of the most prestigious colleges and universities in our nation. They are America's future leaders and I am so proud of the fact that these young men come from my Englewood community. "My heart is full of praise and pride for them, for their parents, guardians, friends and extended families. I also want to salute the vision and leadership provided by Tim King and the amazing team of committed professionals he has brought to bear to make a difference in these young men's lives. May God continue to bless and keep this year's amazing senior class of 2010 and I wish them the very best as they continue to go through life, I believe, exceeding all expectations!" Rush worked with the school's President and Founder/CEO Tim King and other Chicago community leaders to launch Urban Prep in 2002. Their goal, in part, was to demonstrate to Chicago and urban communities across the nation that a focused curriculum, supportive teachers and an expectation for solid academic achievement could yield results. Urban Prep boasts rigorous academic standards and creative activities in and outside the classroom. Urban Prep's extended school day includes extracurricular "arcs," which includes the Academic Arc, Service Arc, Activity Arc and Professional Arc. These activities and more already serve as national models for other schools across the United States and especially for school districts striving to better serve students from low-income or under-served communities. NOTE: Here’s a link to the full text of H. Res. 1414: https://www.house.gov/rush/pdf/HRES1414.pdf. ###
06.15.2010	WASHINGTON - Today, on the floor of the U. S. House of Representatives, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) proudly stepped to the microphone to share with the nation and hundreds of Chicago students, their families and loved ones gathered around their televisions as he read into the Congressional Record a well deserved tribute to the inaugural graduating class of America's first, all male charter high school for the accomplishment of attaining a 100 percent college acceptance rate for all 107 members of the Class of 2010. Rush worked with the school's President and Founder/CEO Tim King and other Chicago community leaders to help launch Urban Prep in 2002. Their goal, in part, was to demonstrate to Chicago and urban communities across the nation that a focused curriculum, supportive teachers and an expectation for solid student achievement could yield results. The accomplishments cited in Rush's resolution, H. Res. 1414, attest to the fact that Rush, King and others were right to believe that these young men, 85 percent of whom come from low-income households, could academically achieve. And if these young men can achieve, so can others. Rush's statement on the House floor, in its entirety, follows: "Thank you Madame Speaker. I would also like to thank Chairman Miller, Ranking Member Kline, and Majority Leader Hoyer for working with my office to bring this important resolution to the floor today. "Madame Speaker, today we have the chance to vote on a very important congressional resolution, "Congratulating Urban Prep Charter Academy for Young Men-Englewood Campus, the nation's first all male charter high school, for achieving a 100 percent college acceptance rate for all 107 members of its first graduating class of 2010." "At a time when only 50 percent of African American males are graduating from high school in most large, urban, predominantly black school districts, the young graduates of Urban Prep are not only shattering the stereotypes surrounding black male dropouts, but they are also setting a standard and establishing a model that we hope will be replicated in other schools and districts around the nation. "The accomplishments that the students, teachers, administrators and families of Urban Prep have achieved are extremely important to my district and to the African American community in particular. "The Englewood community, where Urban Prep is located, has been better known for its high rates of unemployment and lack of opportunity, conditions that have led to an infestation of drugs, violence and gang activity in recent years. "Today, Urban Prep stands as a national symbol of academic excellence and, within the Englewood community, the school represents pride, hope and inspiration. "There are countless hardworking and resilient Englewood families who have the same aspirations and desires for their children that we all carry—to obtain a quality education and have the opportunity to build a better life for themselves. "As a former member of the Englewood High School Transition Advisory Council, I can recall working with Founder, President, and CEO of Urban Prep Academies, Tim King, back in 2005, as we tried to get the charter for Urban Prep approved through the Chicago Public Schools. "I believed very strongly in Tim King and his vision for building a strong, successful school in the Englewood community that would serve as a model for outstanding academic achievement and would establish a solid foundation in the community that would make us all proud. "We received so much pushback by many inside CPS, and even within the community, by those who did not believe we could be successful in teaching our young black men on a level rivaling any rich, affluent district in the country. "Well, this first ever graduating class has shown beyond a shadow of a doubt that Urban Prep is for real, that black males can learn, and that nothing is impossible if you are willing to dream and work to make that dream come true. "A 2009 study by the American Council on Education reported that only 28 percent of African American males who graduate from high school go on to enroll in college, compared to 41 percent of all students. "Well, the Urban Prep graduates have shattered both of those records and they are proving that with hard work, commitment, dedication and an expectation of high standards, then nothing is impossible. Black men can and will learn given the right circumstances and high expectations. "I am extremely proud of what Urban Prep has been able to accomplish over the past five years, and that includes not only the students, but also the families, teachers, staff and, of course, the leadership of Tim King. "For the sake of a strong national economy, as well as a more stable African American community, we need more educated, strong, black male leaders and role models. "Far too often, only the negative and derogatory narratives from our communities are relayed by the media, so it is imperative that we, here, in Congress acknowledge the success and accomplishments of what the students, families, and educators at Urban Prep have been able to achieve. And, today, we publicly and enthusiastically recognize their hard work and commitment to excellence so that other schools and communities will also be inspired. "And to all of the Urban Prep students, families, teachers, administrators, friends and supporters who are watching this debate today, I say to all of you, "Congratulations for all of your hard work. You are an inspiration to your country, and may God continue to guide and bless you in all of your future endeavors. We Believe!" "Thank you, Madame Speaker, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this very important resolution." NOTE: Here’s a link to the full text of H. Res. 1414: https://www.house.gov/rush/pdf/HRES1414.pdf. ###
06.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement on the death of Edna’s Restaurant maven Edna Stewart: "Edna Stewart nourished and fed "The Movement" and I was one of the countless young people in the 1960s who flocked to her restaurant for down home cooking, wonderful fellowship and sage advice,” said Rep. Rush. “Few people understand how small business owners, like Edna Stewart, were the backbone of the Civil Rights Movement. She not only provided food to hungry civil rights workers and their leaders, like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., but her restaurant served as an unofficial meeting organizing ground for the community. She was a mother and friend to so many—and I will miss her down home cooking and her wonderful spirit. She was not only a political matron but also a political mentor to so many, including Harold, Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr., Congressman Jackson, Congressman Davis, U.S. Senator Carol Moseley Braun, and myself. On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District and my wife Carolyn, I express my sincerest condolences to Edna's family. This Chicago legend has left a tremendous void on the West Side." ###
06.11.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today and Monday, on urban radio stations throughout the United States, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-O1) delivers a loud and clear message in support of our nation's youth along with an admonition to them to stand with and vote for those who stand in support of their need for jobs this summer. This weekly broadcast, sponsored by the Congressional Black Caucus in cooperation with the American Urban Radio Network, shines a spotlight on a diverse array of issues that impact America's African American community. Rush, who also serves as a board member of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, delivered the following message:"This is Congressman Bobby Rush representing the first congressional district of Illinois with this week's Congressional Black Caucus "Message to America." "This week marks the beginning of summer and despite our best efforts, we have been unable to pass into law much needed summer youth jobs legislation—but there's still hope. "On May 28, my CBC colleagues and I joined with a House majority to pass H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act. This legislation includes $1 billion dollars for a summer youth jobs program. Your support is needed to get a majority in the United States Senate to pass this legislation with all deliberate speed. "Please join with me in urging both of the senators in your state to vote for this important jobs legislation. "In fact, it is my belief that if those who represent you in the United States Senate, regardless of party, fail to vote in support of legislation that will make it possible for thousands of young people to go to work this summer, then you should fail to vote for them, this fall. "Now I'm not saying don't vote, but I am urging you not to vote for those who will not stand up for you. "My hope and prayer is that all the young people within the sound of my voice will not give up the fight. Those of us in the CBC care about your interests and we're fighting as hard as we can to put you to work right now. "Call both of your senators, today, and tell them to stand up for you. Tell them to vote to fund youth jobs in H.R. 4213. "This has been Congressman Bobby Rush with this week's "Message to America." "Thank you." ###
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement on the historic Stanley Cup win by the Chicago Blackhawks: "Like so many Chicagoans I am so proud of the Chicago Blackhawks for accomplishing their historic Stanley Cup win. The last time they won Martin Luther King, Jr. was alive, the Civil Rights Act had not been signed into law. I was still in high school and America was struggling with its identity and the meaning of freedom," Rush said. "Today, the Blackhawks have proven once again that they are a world class team for a world class city. I salute all of the players, the coach and management for bringing the cup home. And on behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I also want to congratulate Hawks owner Rocky Wirtz for his outstanding leadership. As we relish this victory, I can’t wait for next season and I think I’ll get my tickets early." ###
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-01-IL) began his first day of participation in an historic process aimed at overhauling the regulatory rules of the road governing the practices of leading Wall Street financial giants. In late 2008, those well documented excesses brought our nation's entire financial system to the brink of disaster on a scale not seen since the Great Depression. For the past three years, Rush, who serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee of Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, has presided over a series of policy and regulatory improvements within the Federal Trade Commission, a commission that has a narrow but important set of oversight responsibilities on the policies and operations of our nation's financial markets. It's Chairman Rush's leadership, as well as that of the full Committee Chairman, Henry Waxman, that in part led the two of them to be appointed by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to this trusted position on the House-Senate Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Conference. The deliberations and results that arise from this historic process will fundamentally reshape and help to strengthen our nation's entire financial system. The conference proceeding is presided over by U. S. Rep. Barney Frank, Chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services. Today's first meeting of the conferees featured opening statements by all participants from the U.S. House and Senate. The following is Chairman Rush's opening statement followed by a link to the webcast video of the full proceeding: "Good afternoon, Chairman Waxman, Chairman Frank, Chairman Conyers, Chairman Peterson and to all my esteemed colleagues. It is both an honor and a distinction to serve as a conferee for this House-Senate conference that's charged with the task of working out and putting finishing touches on financial reform legislation for my constituents and for the American people. "Mr. Chairman, we are in the midst of working to strengthen our nation's financial regulatory agencies. While I certainly support the key provisions of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, I don't want us to do irreparable harm to an existing agency that has, for years, been at the forefront of protecting the American consumer and that's the Federal Trade Commission. My firm view on the matter is that the Federal Trade Commission should retain all the authority that it currently holds under the Federal Trade Commission Act. That concept is set forth in Title IV of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In addition, the Committee on Energy and Commerce must continue to oversee and authorize the FTC. "Looking at all reliable indicators, the Commission has performed commendably with a small but scrappy staff and abridged powers. Working along with a five-person, bi-partisan Commission are approximately 1,100 dedicated employees spread across three bureaus--Competition, Consumer Protection and Economics. "Mr. Chairman, this body has done a yeoman's job and has been the only agency that has existed throughout the years that fought to protect the American consumer from the ravages that we have undergone in this recent ‘depression' as it relates to Wall Street. "Although its expertise is deep and broad, the FTC's statutory tools under the FTC Act consist of an antiquated and cumbersome form of rulemaking under the Magnusson-Moss Act paired with anemic litigation authority. In order to pack the full punch of deterrence that businesses will respect and that consumers deserve, it is critical that this body support and defend a robust mix of rulemaking and enforcement tools. "That is why the FTC must be awarded rulemaking authority under the Administrative Procedure Act, authority to impose civil penalties, and greater independence to commence litigation in prescribed instances without acquiring prior consent from the U. S. Department of Justice. "Using APA rulemaking authority, the FTC will be able to address rampant, unfair and deceptive acts and practices in real time perpetrated against unsuspecting consumers by payday lenders, debt collection and settlement firms, auto dealers, consumer reporting agencies and professional services providers such as accountants, tax preparers, attorneys, real estate licensees, employee benefit plan providers and insurance concerns. "The Energy and Commerce Committee has also worked devotedly in the past--more than a few times with members from the Financial Services Committee I might add--to bolster the FTC's shortcomings, hold out the FTC's best practices for banking agencies to emulate in protecting consumers, and improve the ability of bank regulatory agencies to protect consumers by issuing unfair and deceptive rules under the FTC Act. "Thank you for the opportunity to share my views regarding H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. "Mr. Chairman, I'd like to conclude my remarks by saying that I am determined to work diligently and collaboratively through this process for the overriding purpose of protecting not just our our Main Street communities from the excesses of Wall Street, but also our ‘Side Street' communities from the excesses of Wall Street. "The side streets of this nation, Mr. Chairman, where the unemployment rates have skyrocketed. The side streets where the retail arms of many stores are long gone and are shuttered. The side streets where the homes are boarded up. "Again, Mr. Chairman, I want to make it clear that my interest as I sit at this table in the coming days and weeks is to ensure that the hopes, dreams and financial aspirations of those who live in America's side streets are heard and respected as we engage in this important process. "And, with that, I yield back the balance of my time." ### NOTE: Please click on this link to the House Financial Services Committee's website to view a webcast of the entire proceedings: https://financialserv.edgeboss.net/wmedia/financialserv/conference061010.wvx And here's a link to the special section on their website with other key documents:https://financialservices.house.gov/Key_Issues/Financial_Regulatory_Reform/Financial_Regulatory_Reform020210.html
06.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, indicated he was troubled to learn today that high-ranking officials at Arlington National Cemetery have been accused of mismanagement and relieved of their duties at the nation’s most well known burial ground. The United States Army has announced that at least 200 remains at Arlington have been misidentified or misplaced. "Once again bereaved consumers of this nation have been hurt by our failure to regulate our nation’s cemeteries and now grave tampering has occurred on burial grounds that are supposed to bring honor and dignity to U.S. soldiers," Rep. Rush said. Rep. Rush said he supports the full and thorough investigation directed by Army Secretary McHugh and would seek a report regarding what happened at Arlington. "This is a national disgrace and I am now more committed than ever to move Congress to pass HR 3655, the "Bereaved Consumer Bill of Rights Act" which I introduced last September in the wake of the Burr Oak Cemetery scandal in Illinois". The "Bereaved Consumer Bill of Rights Act", which is pending a vote later this month in the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to promulgate rules requiring ALL cemetery, crematoria, and mausoleum owners to provide clear and conspicuous disclosures and pricing information about their products and services, including costly pre-need contracts, memorials, burial rights, grave liners, and vaults. These owners would also be required to produce and retain existing records pertaining to the location, date, and rights associated with each internment, inurnment, or entombment of human remains. The legislation makes misrepresentations of federal, state, and local requirements and the improper tying of goods and services out to be violations of the FTC Act regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices. The bill does not preempt state laws or actions. It would enable states' attorney generals to bring civil actions on behalf of state residents in federal District Court for compliance enforcement and for money damages and restitution as deemed appropriate by the court. "This is a good bill that establishes federal minimums to protect vulnerable consumers from being taken advantage of and levels the playing field between discrete segments of the funeral goods and services industry, which consumers perceive as being a single "one-stop shop" marketplace. I respectfully urge my colleagues to support the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act," Rep. Rush said. ###
06.01.2010	CHICAGO – As part of his continued effort to strengthen small businesses and create opportunities for success for emerging entrepreneurs, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) continues an effort to help small and minority businesses in the suburbs have access to micro loans from $5,000 to $25,000. Scores of first Congressional District businesses have received financial assistance through the legislator's creative initiatives. "District Business Loan Day," offered in cooperation with the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Strategies for Small Business/Superior Financial Group, will be held Thursday, June 3 at the Raday Lodge, 3220 W. 145th Street in Midlothian. Entrepreneurs can apply for the micro loans between the hours of 5:30 PM and 8:00 PM. Participating organizations include the business chambers from Alsip, Evergreen Park, Blue Island, Oak Forest, Orland Park, Tinley Park, among others, the University of Illinois and, the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association. The session will be hosted by Midlothian Mayor Terrence M. Stephens. Earlier this year, Rush introduced two major pieces of legislation aimed at helping to alleviate chronic unemployment among America's youth (H.R. 4920), and for providing assistance to small and minority businesses (H.R. 4929). As the chair of the 131-member Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus, the congressman is working with Caucus members and other leaders in the House to advance these bills with other job creation efforts. The congressman has also partnered with SCORE Chicago to offer free, one-hour counseling sessions to entrepreneurs, start-ups and existing businesses. Applicants, with a strong credit rating, should bring a valid driver's license, Federal Tax Identification Number; social security card and business check. No collateral materials or tax returns are necessary. A fee will not be charged for unapproved loan applications. For more information on "District Business Loan Day" or any other Rush business initiatives please contact Younus Suleman, deputy district director, at 708-385-9550 or visit www.house.gov/rush. ###
05.28.2010	Washington - In a powerful tribute published exclusively in The Hill newspaper, today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) penned an opinion editorial where he described the valiant final minutes of Blair Holt's life while challenging national leaders to step up to the plate to provide meaningful leadership and financial resources to help reduce the level of youth-on-youth violence. In part, Rush wrote this, "On May 12, 2007, Blair Holt, a Julian High School honor student, was riding home from school on a crowded bus when a teenager boarded and opened fire with a .40 caliber handgun. The teenage gunman was hoping to hit a rival gang member. He missed. Instead, he hit Blair and two other female classmates. Video footage of the assault shows that seconds before he was fatally hit in the abdomen, Blair had pushed the female friend next to him down into the seat and shielded her body with his own. In an instant, this brave young man, the son of a police officer and a firefighter, sacrificed his life to save another. His selfless act of compassion and humanity towers over the political cowardice of many adults when it comes to saving our children. Rush went on to cite several policy proposals as well as the legislation he's introduced, to date, designed to provide local communities with additional resources to help stem the level of gun-related violence in local communities and in, or around, school facilities. He concluded his remarks with this statement, "If the adults and political leaders in our nation could show the same selflessness, compassion, and love for others that young Blair Holt exhibited, then our communities and our country will be better off." Here's a link to the entire commentary, entitled "Blair Holt's Courage Should Inspire Our Nation's Adults:" https://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/100337-blair-holts-courage-should-inspire-our-nations-adults} ###
05.28.2010	CHICAGO - As mourners prepare to say their final goodbye to slain Chicago Police Officer and Iraq war veteran Thomas Wortham IV, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) has started a crusade to build a state-of-the-art field house in honor of the slain hero. Today, the legislator asked the Chicago Park District and U.S. Senators Richard J. Durbin and Roland Burris to seek public and private funding for a facility to be based in the South Side park the officer had dedicated much of his life. The 30-year-old Chicago police officer, who had recently returned from a tour of duty in Iraq was shot and killed on May 19 when several people approached him outside his family's home and tried to steal his new motorcycle. Wortham, a member of the Wisconsin National Guard, was last promoted to 1st Lieutenant in August 2008. The officer will be funeralized today at 11:30 AM at Trinity United Church of Christ on the South Side. Rep. Rush wrote Chicago Park District President Bryan Traubert that Wortham, who also volunteered as president of the Cole Park Advisory Council, spent most of his life working to improve Nat King Cole Park, 361 E. 85th Street, and ensuring that children and youth could participate in recreational activities unhampered by drug dealing and street violence. Because of his dedication, the congressman urged the Park District to apply for a federal grant from the U.S. Land and Water Conservation Fund and to name the newly constructed facility in honor of Wortham. The project, which could cost millions of dollars, would be financed by both public and private dollars. "By all standards Officer Wortham was a pillar to his community, a leader among his peers and a hero to our nation" Rush said. "The 1st Congressional District has lost a hero and war veteran but his heroism and love for his community and his country will forever live on in our hearts and minds. His spirit serves as the best example of leadership, commitment and selfless service to others. It is fitting that we honor this American hero with a field house in his honor. It will be a deserving tribute to his name and his commitment to bettering the lives of others." Rush said in addition to seeking the support of both senators, he will ask for all members of the Illinois congressional delegation to join the effort. A PDF copy of the letters is attached. ###
05.27.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) introduced a House Resolution that congratulates the people of the 17 African nations that, this year, are marking the 50th year of their national independence. In his outreach to his colleagues on this subject, Rush, who also chairs the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus, said this, "This resolution honors the lives of the tens of thousands of patriots—including innocent civilians—who died, were imprisoned, or otherwise dedicated their lives, often at great personal sacrifice, to achieving African political independence. It also commends the socio-economic and political progress being made by these nations, while acknowledging the associated challenges that many still face. This resolution also renews the commitment of the United States to helping the people of sub-Saharan Africa to foster democratic rule, advance civic freedom, realize economic growth, and to alleviate the burden of poverty and disease that so many in the region continue to face." Today's action by Rush, who serves as subcommittee chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, is just the latest in a series of legislative and policy initiatives Chairman Rush has engaged in, in recent years, all aimed at generating increased trade and international cooperation between the United States and leaders and/or heads of state of leading African countries. One of Chairman Rush's most recent actions on international trade include hosting a policy discussion in Houston, on May 3, that focused on the impact of U. S. Energy Policy on Trade with the Gulf of Guinea and, subsequently, on the establishment of Clean Energy Research Centers and Clean Energy Equipment Financing Facilities for the Gulf of Guinea—an action designed, in part, to lead to trade resources being targeted or spent in Chicago. Chicago is one of four U.S. cities participating in the World Bank Group's Public Sector Liaison Officer Network. A pdf copy of the text of the resolution may be reviewed by clicking on the link below: House Resolution Noting 50 Yrs of African Independence - H Res 1405 - 5-27-10.pdf ###
05.26.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, an amendment offered by U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-01) was unanimously adopted and added to H.R. 5320, the "Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act (AQUA) of 2010" that was marked up by the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The amendment addresses some of the concerns that were unearthed in the Village of Crestwood scandal where contaminated drinking water was knowingly piped into citizens' water supply by village officials for more than 20 years, without EPA intervention. The Rush amendment would give the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 12 months after the date of AQUA's enactment to issue a final rule requiring public water systems and state agencies to submit all compliance monitoring data to EPA electronically. "With this complete set of data the EPA can make better decisions about proper public notification or if there's a need for additional follow-up activities, as appropriate. This comprehensive data report will also allow the EPA to identify trends that might lead to noncompliance with drinking water violations that might lead to increased risks to public safety," Rush said in a statement to the committee. Rush's amendment was the latest in a series of legislative initiatives the Congressman has enacted over the course of a year following a field hearing he held in the Village of Crestwood, in April 2009, shortly after news of this scandal made headlines. Rush's office also worked with U. S. Rep. Ed Markey, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment, to include tough new enforcement language into the base AQUA bill that would require the EPA to set up guidelines for notifying the public served by a water system when different types of violations occur. The EPA would be allowed to use the same categories of violations that have already been developed under subsection (c) of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Additionally, the new enforcement language would require the EPA to determine which types of follow-up inspections are needed, and how many inspections the state will need to carry out for each category of violation that is identified. These new federal provisions were designed to address the issue of the Illinois EPA not being required to go out and inspect whether the contaminated Crestwood well was still being used for 20 years after safety violations were first brought to its attention in 1986. Rush's amendment, along with the new inspection and enforcement standards that were incorporated into the manager's mark, will allow the EPA to update their systems to gather accurate and timely data collection that will allow them to act more effectively, especially when the public's health is at risk. While the EPA already has the statutory authority to inform the public of potential health concerns due to water quality violations, the EPA was not receiving current data because of antiquated rules, system and data collection requirements. "Mr. Chairman, it is imperative that we establish clear channels of responsibility and accountability for when public health is at risk due to violations of federal drinking water standards. Currently, the rules governing EPA data collection pre-date the advent of the Internet so current guidelines prevent the agency from receiving timely information even when there is a danger to public safety," Rush said. "By adopting this amendment, in conjunction with the new enforcement requirements in the underlying bill, no longer will health violations go unreported or unchecked by the agencies that are the last line of defense in protecting the public's health." H.R. 5320, the "Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act of 2010," was reported favorably out of the Energy and Commerce Committee and will be forwarded to the floor of the House of Representatives where it will receive a final vote. ###
05.24.2010	WASHINGTON -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush proudly noted the inclusion of key provisions of his 340B Program Improvement and Integrity Act of 2009 (H.R. 444) in tax relief legislation that continues to wind its way through the House and Senate legislative process: "I am pleased that H.R. 4213 includes an expansion of key provisions of the 340B legislation I’ve fought consistently to include in important health care reform legislative vehicles that continue to advance in the House. The fact that inpatient prescription drug benefits are included in this legislation represents a major step forward in the ability of low-income patients to receive the medications they so urgently need at the points of service where they most often receive their medical care. I am also pleased that the availability of these benefits has been extended to apply to Federally Qualified Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics as these facilities serve large populations of low-income patients and senior citizens on low- or fixed-incomes. "The bipartisan bill I introduced last year, with 102 co-sponsors, spoke loudly and clearly on the merits of this legislation. While the complete list of expanded service providers my original bill proposed is not included in H.R. 4213, I remain pleased with the progress and the promise this legislation represents for millions of patients if it becomes law. I will continue to work aggressively to ensure that it does." ###
05.20.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good afternoon. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection will now come to order. The focus of today's' mark-up is the Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2010 committee print. "We recently released the draft legislation which is designed to strengthen the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's ability to more effectively, and pro-actively, fulfill its core mission. I commend Chairman Henry Waxman for his leadership on this issue. I also commend our Chairman Emeritus, John Dingell, for his substantive contributions as we work together to develop this important legislation. "Our common objective is to ensure the safety of every American who gets behind the wheel of a car. While we can't control a driver's behavior, literally, I think it is within our ability to put in place a strong and clear set of regulations that auto manufacturers must abide by. "The committee print that is before you this afternoon is the product of a series of extensive consultations, occasional disagreements but, always, constructive engagement between the leadership and staff of this subcommittee as well as by automobile manufacturers, both domestic and foreign, and consumer groups. "I want to thank all of you for your contributions to this important process which I know is of vital importance to the American people. My hope is that we will continue that constructive dialogue, today, in a bipartisan fashion. "Having said that, this is what this bill will do and what it will not do. "First, it will equip NHTSA with more expertise and more technology, allowing the agency to hire and train more engineers. I am glad that, with the inclusion of the Center Honors program, a greater outreach will be made to the best students of community colleges and those colleges and universities that serve minority students. "Second, it will restore, enhance and sustain a cutting edge data source that will better ensure public safety well into the 21 century. "NHTSA will do so via the National Automobile Sampling System (NASS), a system that improves the data collection of police report crashes that occur on U.S. roads; that diagnoses safety problems; that identifies safety defects and noncompliance with safety standards; and that evaluates the degree to which its standards and programs are achieving their goals and that can be improved. "It's worth noting that car crashes are the number one cause of death for children. Increasing knowledge of the nature of crash injuries, with input from interested parties like suppliers, safety advocates, the medical community and research organizations will help reduce the risk of crashes and save more lives. "A third important provision is that this legislation promotes safety and innovation by setting up standards that better protect consumers. "Fourth, it increases transparency by requiring disclosure of more safety information to consumers and mandating that NHTSA make its vehicle safety databases more accessible. "Fifth, it protects our automobile industry while it continues to recover from the economic downturn."At the same time, here's what this proposal will not do. "It does not contain any enforcement mechanism as initially offered in the previous draft. "This legislation includes no civil penalty and no imminent hazard authority. Why? While these two provisions are very important, they have to be seriously reconsidered, especially the process and criteria provided in the initial draft for exercising the imminent hazard authority. "We are all in support of the concept of the imminent hazard authority and its ability to quickly recall dangerous cars left on the roads by the manufacturers and dealers. However, it is crucial that we ensure that such authority is reserved only for situations where there is a high and imminent likelihood of death or serious bodily harm and, also, to grant the affected party the constitutional right to appear in court. "Regarding the civil penalty, we also agree that any manufacturer who refuses to comply with these tough new safety standards must be held accountable. Let me assure you, they will be. "Ultimately, I believe NHTSA will be given imminent hazard authority and the civil penalty will be increased. "However, these two provisions are very important and need additional consideration. "Before I yield back my time, I want to thank the members and staff for their hard work. I am urging members to limit their amendments to the motor vehicle safety provisions. We need to hear from all members and for that, I am inviting you to respect your time limit. I, like everyone else assembled here today, am looking forward to hearing from every member who wants to be heard. "Thank you again. And with that, I yield the balance of my time. ###
05.20.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - "I am deeply saddened at the death of Thomas Wortham IV, a young man, by all standards, who was a pillar to his community, a leader among his peers, and a hero to our nation. I am also outraged that people so callous and with no disregard for life would snuff out a bright and shining light in our community," said Rep. Rush. "Thomas was not only my constituent, he was a leader in the 6th Ward organization where I also serve as president, was a friend and colleague to members of my staff, and he was like a son to all of the elders who knew him. How ironic that a hero who put his life on the line everyday as a Chicago police officer, and as a soldier fighting to protect our nation and our democracy, is gunned down by the hands of cowards from his own community. It is a shame and it is a disgrace. I hope all those responsible for taking this young man's life are brought to justice. "There must be answers to this prolific wave of violence sweeping through our city and our nation," Rep. Rush continued. "No parent should have to mourn the premature loss of a child gunned down in front of his very home, or coming from school or walking to the store. Whether it is stricter gun laws, increased social services in troubled neighborhoods, a realignment of beats so more police officers are visible and on foot in communities where there are problems, we must all work together to find the solution. We cannot wait any longer. "The 1st Congressional District has lost a hero," Rush said. "On behalf of the people of the 1st congressional district and to Thomas' wonderful family, I extend my deepest sympathies." EDITOR'S NOTE: In honor and respect for the slain police officer, Congressman Rush will suspend his demonstration in the death of CVS strangulation victim Anthony Kyser until further notice. The protest had been scheduled for noon Friday. ###
05.17.2010	CHICAGO — In the wake of the recent strangulation death of a 35-year-old man by a CVS store manager, on Tuesday, May 18 at 9:30 AM, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will be joined by legendary civil rights Attorney James D. Montgomery, Mrs. Ann Marie Kyser, mother of victim Anthony Kyser, at a news conference at Beloved Community Christian Church, 6430 S. Harvard. The lawmaker will re-issue his demand for the Chicago Police Department and Cook County State's Attorney's Office to file criminal charges against those responsible for killing the man accused of stealing toothpaste and crayons from a CVS store in the Little Village neighborhood. Ann Marie Balboa, the victim's ex-wife, will also participate. The lawmaker may also be joined by citizens who have come forward with other incidents of "shopping while black" at other CVS stores in Chicago and across the country. This will be the first time Ms. Kyser has spoken to the media regarding the horrific incident which she learned of while in church on Mother's Day. Rep. Rush said police and prosecutors are strangely ignoring the loss of human life and "Anthony Kyser died at the hand of vigilantes," who must be "held accountable for their acts that led to a man losing his life in an alley while a sworn officer of the law stood idly by," he said. The man's death was ruled a homicide by the Cook County Medical Examiner yet no criminal charges have been filed by authorities. Incidentally, CVS Caremark was recently awarded a contract worth approximately $800 million to manage prescription-drug benefits for the city of Chicago and other local government agencies. The decision came despite a whistleblower lawsuit accused the corporation of bilking tens of millions of dollars from the state of Illinois from 2002 to 2005, when it managed the state's pharmacy benefits. A memorial service has been planned for Kyser on Friday. RUSH/KYSER/CVS STORE NEWS CONFERENCE:TUESDAY MAY 18, 2010; 9:30 AM BELOVED COMMUNITY CHURCH, 6430 S. HARVARD, CHICAGO ###
05.13.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bobby L. Rush said a new provision in federal law that would require municipalities to immediately inform its residents when public water sources are at risk for contamination will help restore the public trust for residents of Crestwood, IL, who last year learned many had consumed contaminated drinking water for more than two decades. Rep. Henry A. Waxman, chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Rep. Edward J. Markey, chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, praised Rep. Rush for working to get enforcement language into the bill at a hearing held today on legislation that will reauthorize and increase funding for the drinking water state revolving fund (SRF) under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). The "Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act of 2010" will amend SDWA to increase assistance to states, water systems, and disadvantaged communities, encourage good financial and environmental management of water systems, strengthen EPA enforcement authority, reduce lead in drinking water, and strengthen the Endocrine Disruptor Screening Program. "Under the new provisions the EPA will determine what types of follow-up inspections are needed, and how many inspections the state will need to carry out," Rep. Rush said as part of a congressional hearing on the "Assistance Quality and Affordability Act of 2010. "This gets right at the issue of Illinois EPA not being required to go out and check whether the contaminated well was being used, without being overly burdensome if the violations are not related to public safety. "As Representatives of the people we serve, for most of us the actions taken by Village of Crestwood officials would be unconscionable. In all of my time as a public servant, I have rarely encountered public officials acting so egregiously against their own citizens or abusing their power in a way that puts the public safety at risk," he said. The drinking water SRF was created in the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments to provide capitalization grants to states to award infrastructure loans to water systems. The funds are used to increase compliance with drinking water standards, protect public health, and assist the water systems most in need. Our nation's water systems serve over 272 million people, and, according to EPA, are facing infrastructure bills with the potential to climb to $334 billion over the next 17 years as our existing infrastructure ages. In order to curb that growth in infrastructure needs, this bill will encourage water systems to anticipate replacement and rehabilitation needs and plan for the future. "With our actions here today and in moving this bill forward, it is my sincere hope that no other community in America will have to suffer from the reprehensible acts of a few despicable public servants who would seek to abuse the public trust like those in Crestwood," Rep. Rush said. In April 2009, Rep. Rush asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate the Village of Crestwood to determine if civil or criminal charges are warranted against the municipality after learning more than 51 million gallons of toxic water was knowingly pumped into citizen's homes for more than 20 years. More than 11,000 citizens in the south suburban community drank poisoned tap water from a well operated by the village even though the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had deemed groundwater contaminated by chemicals, including vinyl chloride, a dry-cleaning solvent. Following Rep. Rush's intervention, the investigators from the Environmental Criminal Division of the U.S. EPA along with local law enforcement agencies and the U.S. Coast Guard, raided Crestwood Village Hall, 13840 S. Cicero Ave., and the town's public works department. The issue was made public in December 2007, when acting on a tip from a private citizen, Tricia Krause, IL EPA decided to test the well water for the first time since first being alerted to the problem in 1986. During these tests, IL EPA found that the well water contained unacceptable levels of per-chloro-ethylene (PCE), a chemical linked to liver damage and neurological problems, as well as other carcinogenic chemicals that were higher than federal standards permit. ###
05.13.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) sent a letter to Chicago Police Superintendent Jody Weis charging that the police department is ignoring the homicide of 35-year-old Anthony Kyser who was allegedly strangled to death May 8 by an employee of CVS pharmacy. The legislator sent the letter after the Cook County State's Attorney's Office responded to his inquiry about the murder indicating police had yet to contact the agency's felony review unit so charges might be filed. Mr. Kyser was suspected of shoplifting from a CVS Pharmacy in the 2600 block of Pulaski Road around 11 AM Saturday. He was chased from the store and ran into an adjacent alley where he was reportedly beaten, stomped and strangled to death by a store manager and others. Ann Marie Kyser, the mother of the victim, asked the congressman to pursue justice for her son. Anthony's mother told Rush she learned of her son's homicide while sitting in church on Mother's Day. "Why is the police department ignoring the murder of an unarmed citizen in broad daylight on the streets of Chicago," Rush asked. "Anthony Kyser was chased from a store where he was allegedly beaten and strangled to death by a CVS store manager; and, despite eyewitness accounts and a ruling from the medical examiner that his death was indeed a homicide, the Chicago police have not filed any charges with the Cook County State's Attorney's Office. Such inaction is iniquitous. "A man's civil and human rights were violated. He lost his life. Though Mr. Kyser was only suspected of shoplifting we have something in this country called due process," Rush said. "This is a classic case of people taking the law into their own hands and ultimately acting as judge, jury and executioner over a tube of toothpaste and a box of crayons. There was no reason for this man to die. "I am asking the Chicago Police Department and the Cook County State's Attorney to stop playing political hot potato with this case and to file charges against those responsible for this man's homicide," Rush said. "Otherwise, I may ask the U.S. Justice Department Civil Rights Division to investigate this matter, if our local law enforcement agencies will not." Since news of the Mr. Kyser case broke nationally, the lawmaker's office has received consumer complaints alleging a pattern and practice of racial profiling incidents at various CVS store locations across the country. Anthony Kyser, shown in a 2008 photo with his then wife Ann Marie, was strangled to death allegedly by a CVS store manager after being accused of stealing a box of crayons and toothpaste. Read the letter sent to Superintendent || Read the letter sent to the State's Attorney office ###
05.11.2010	CHICAGO — Today U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) expressed outrage that employees of a CVS store in Little Village who allegedly beat and choked a 35-year-old shoplifting suspect to death over the weekend have not been charged with homicide. The congressman issued a letter to Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez asking her to file charges against the person or persons responsible for the strangulation death of Anthony Kyser whom authorities said was suspected of shoplifting a tube of toothpaste and a box of crayons before being chased into an alley by a store manager. "This man's murder was absurd. It is beyond comprehension. What kind of society are we living in where an unarmed man's life can be taken by a group of vigilantes, with eye witness accounts, and a ruling of homicide by the medical examiner and still no one is charged and brought to justice," asked Rush. "A human life was taken here and his family deserves justice and answers. His checkered past is of little note. If he was stealing the police should have been called and he would have paid for his breaking the law—but I am sure his sentence would not have been death. His actions, such as retail theft or running from the scene, do not justify him being chased down an alley to be beaten and strangled to death by store employees. "Vigilante justice has no place in Chicago," he continued. "I want the Cook County State's Attorney to prosecute those who are responsible for this crime to the fullest extent of the law. CVS or its parent company shares the responsibility for the unlawful conduct of its employees." ### Editor's Note: Copy of letter attached
05.07.2010	MELANIE'S LAW: For nearly 10 years U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) championed legislation to help new mothers suffering from mental health issues shortly after giving birth resulting in the Melanie Blocker Stokes Postpartum Depression MOTHERS Act, which signed into law by President Barack Obama as part of health insurance reform. Recently, he was joined on Capitol Hill by (from left) postpartum depression advocates Dr. Susan Stone, president of Postpartum Support International, Katherine Stone, founder of Postpartum Progress Blog, Sylvia Lasalandra, author of A Daughter’s Touch, Dr. Gwendolyn Keita, director of the American Psychological Association, and U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), who sponsored the bill in the U.S. Senate. Also in attendance was Carol Blocker, (not pictured) the mother of the woman of which the law was named. The new law will establish a comprehensive federal commitment to combating postpartum depression through new research, education initiatives and voluntarily support service programs. ###
05.07.2010	PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement on hearing news of the apparent suicide of embattled and long-time Metra Executive Director Phil Pagano, 60, who according to news reports apparently walked in front of a Metra train in Crystal Lake this morning. The lawmaker is currently part of a congressional delegation examining the rebuilding efforts in Haiti. "I am shocked and saddened to hear of Phil's death, a man I've known and worked with for quite some time," Rush said. "Despite his current troubles I knew him to be a good person, an innovative thinker and a good listener. He understood the need for inclusion and why I fought so hard with Metra for minority contracting and employment opportunities. On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District in Illinois, my thoughts and prayers are with his family." ###
05.07.2010	WASHINGTON –– "It is with a heavy heart that I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family and the people of Nigeria on the loss of their President, Umaru Yar'Adua. Recognizing that death is part of the natural order of life, I think it is fitting that if he had to die at this time he did so peacefully and surrounded by his family. I'm grateful to God that his peaceful transition from this world to the next was preceded by his historic legacy of leadership. "President Adua's presidency marked Nigeria's first peaceful transition of power, through a free election, from one civilian led Administration to the next. He served with honor and dignity and with a determined focus on working with the United States and other countries around the world to expand trade opportunities for the people he served in his native land as well as the people throughout the continent of Africa. "Recently, I had the good fortune to meet the, then, acting President of Nigeria, His Excellency Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, and I wished him all the best as he assumes the awesome level of power and responsibility that has been vested with him at this time. "As I expressed to President Jonathan and the other members of his delegation, I believe that today's political, economic and cultural climate, combined, offer the best opportunity in a generation for the United States to redefine its historic economic and trade relationship with the continent of Africa. "My pledge to the new President of Nigeria is the same that I gave to his predecessor which is that I am determined to do all I can to strengthen the trade, humanitarian and cultural ties between Nigeria and other African nations." Rush, who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, is the author of H. Con. Res. 128, a House resolution that expresses the sense of Congress that Africa of is of "strategic, political, economic, and humanitarian importance to the United States." ###
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A congressional delegation (CODEL) will depart for Haiti at 7:30 AM EST on Friday May 7, nearly five months after a shocking earthquake rocked the poor island nation. The group of 10 members and other U.S. officials will be led by Rep David Price (D-NC) and will include Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL). This is the latest collection of lawmakers to travel to the Caribbean country since the January 12 tragedy that killed 210,000 people. The CODEL is expected to arrive at Port-au-Prince, Haiti’s Toussaint L’Ouverture International Airport at 10 AM EST. The delegation includes one Republican and nine Democrats including Rep. David Dreier (R-CA), Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ), Rep. Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Brad Miller (D-NC), and Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI). The lawmakers will travel as part of the House Democracy Partnership (HDP), a legislative exchange and capacity-building program established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005. The bipartisan, twenty-member commission works directly with fifteen partner legislatures around the world to support the development and consolidation of effective, independent, and democratic institutions of government. HDP's partnership with the National Assembly of Haiti was initiated in 2007 following the country’s successful 2006 legislative elections. The earthquake completely destroyed the parliament and took the lives of several of its members and staff, and HDP has been working in its wake to help the Assembly identify a meeting space and procure badly-needed equipment in order to regain its ability to function as an institution. With the National Assembly’s mandate scheduled to expire in May 2010, HDP has been emphasizing the need for the legislature to remain involved in the long-term reconstruction effort. "I want a first-hand look at how the Haitian Parliament is meeting the needs of the Haitian people in the wake of this devastating tragedy and I want to see the progress that’s been made to stabilize Haiti," Rep Rush said. "Not only were thousands of lives lost but the political and economic infrastructure of the country was also disrupted. This will be a long process. We will meet with members of parliament, U.S. embassy officials and visit relief camps so we might access how well our intervention is going." The mission comes two days after the House on Wednesday approved trade breaks for Haiti's textile industry, the latest of several actions aimed at helping the hemisphere's poorest nation recover from the most devastating earthquake in the country’s history. The CODEL will return to Washington on Friday night; and, Rep. Rush is expected to Chicago on Saturday. ###
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON –– This morning, in a blistering shot across the bow to his colleagues in the United States Senate, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-01-IL) shared his views in response to a distressing conversation he'd had with CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee yesterday about her understanding that once the Senate completed its work on financial services reform they were basically done for the year, legislatively, with respect to moving on youth jobs legislation. If true, Rep. Rush adamantly objects. "I'm not going to allow the United States Senate to operate in such a cavalier manner," said Rush. "I have been reaching out to leaders of our nation's leading civil rights organizations to tell them rather than focusing on meetings in the White House, they need to be applying pressure to the Senate to have a summit on jobs, especially for youth! "I was appalled to learn yesterday, from Chairwoman Lee, that once they completed their current work, that that's all they're going to do this year. I'll be damned if they don't do this. "I'm calling on the civil rights community and labor leaders—some of whom I think need to get out in front on this issue. We need to alert the voters in those states that if members of the United States Senate are going to be apathetic toward their need for jobs, then voters need to be apathetic on their need to get re-elected." Rush is the author of two major jobs bills. H.R. 4920 the "Employing Youth for the American Dream Act" (EYADA) proposes a combination of training dollars, apprenticeship programs, employer grants for on-the-job-training (OJT), tax incentives, preferences for youth hiring and training, and increased opportunities for at-risk teenagers. The bill also creates a federally funded public service employment program that focuses on year-round jobs in parks, education and infrastructure for young people. This $8 billion bill aims to alleviate chronic unemployment, reduce the national drop-out rate, decrease youth violence, and provide pathways of opportunity for young people and at-risk youth. Rush also introduced H.R. 4929 the "Expanding Opportunities for Main Street Act of 2010" in a manner that expands or amends a series of incentives and stabilization mechanisms aimed at better positioning small businesses to compete and thrive in our global economy. Key provisions in "Division A" include raising the cap for contracts set aside for small businesses to $500,000, modifying the SBA's Disadvantaged Business Development Program by raising the Personal Net Worth Threshold to $1.5 million, raising the federal surety bonding guarantee to $5 million, and extending a key Obama Administration SBA ARC loan program through September, 2011. The bill also seeks to strengthen the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) through a series of steps including providing technical and contracting assistance to qualified minority businesses, and by authorizing the Director of the MBDA to provide loan guarantees to qualified minority businesses up to $500,000. In addition to legislation Rush has introduced, he also supports other progressive jobs legislation including proposals from members of the bipartisan Jobs NOW! Coalition, which he chairs, as well as proposals that seek supplemental appropriations to more rapidly appropriate resources for youth summer jobs. Other participating CBC members in today press briefing were CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), U. S. Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA), U. S. Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY), U. S. Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver II (D-MO), U. S. Rep. Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick (D-MI), U. S. Rep. Al Green (D-TX), U. S. Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) and U. S. Senator Roland Burris (D-IL) ###
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush spoke powerfully and from the heart as he praised the valiant work of Mrs. Carol Blocker, U. S. Senator Robert Menendez and leading women's health leaders and activists whose combined efforts, after nine years, led to the enactment of The Melanie Blocker Stokes Mom's Opportunity to Access Health, Education, Research and Support for Postpartum Depression Act, legislation that was signed into law, in its entirety, by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010 as part of our nation's historic health insurance reform legislation. As part of his remarks, Rush recalled what it was like, in his Chicago community in 2001, when local news media widely reported that Melanie Blocker Stokes, who had battled valiantly against post partum psychosis, went missing. "The headlines spewed the fact that the mother of a young girl was missing. And after about three days, on a Saturday afternoon, the headlines continued the story and said that this young mother had been found on the north side of the city of Chicago where she had plummeted to her death. I'm talking about Melanie Blocker Stokes. Melanie lived in the area that I represented as a member of the Chicago City Council. I later discovered that Mrs. Carol Blocker had been the fifth grade teacher at two of my grandchildren's schools. And then, upon further inquiry, I found out that Melanie had suffered from something called post partum psychosis. And, within a short period of time, two other mothers in Chicago had taken their lives based on this particular issue. And I began to wonder what I could do as a Congressman and we decided to sponsor legislation. I named it after Melanie to deal with this issue of post partum depression and post partum psychosis. "To me it was most important that congress remembers the fact that had it been an issue that affected men, it would have been dealt with in short order. To my surprise, as I was gathering co-sponsors for this bill, I was surprised and astounded at the number of members of Congress who were very familiar with this issue who had a loved one or family member or an acquaintance who had suffered from post partum psychosis. And, so, it was a malady that most members of Congress were very familiar with. I'm just so proud that Senator Menendez and others have worked tirelessly to make this a law. "This is a day that American women can celebrate. This is a day that as we stand on the eve of Mother's Day, the Congress of the United States and the American government can give our mothers a Mother's Day present that will keep on giving for generations to come. "This is just the beginning of our embracing and our embarking upon an issue that affects women. Women's health issues should be a prime concern to this House of Representatives to this Senate, to the Congress as it should also be to the American people. "As I reflect upon my own mother, who's passed on now, I'm doing this because I want to honor my mother on this Mother's Day. I know she's celebrating in Heaven but I just want to celebrate her because she was the mother of eight children and she didn't have this opportunity. I want to thank Carol Blocker for the tremendous work that she's done and everybody who's involved in this. "In his remarks, in part, Senator Menendez said, "Today we celebrate this gift for women. We're here because mothers nationwide who are suffering from post partum depression will finally get the support they need because of the The Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act. We're here so that new moms can feel supported and safe rather than scared and alone. The MOTHERS Act, which is now the law as part of the health insurance reform that congress passed and the President signed into law, will go a long way to provide that support.” Joining Rush and Menendez at today's event was Melanie's mother, Mrs. Carol Blocker, Susan Dowd Stone, Postpartum Support International, Katherine Stone, Postpartum Progress website, Sylvia Lasalandra, author, "A Daughter's Touch,” and representatives from The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Psychological Association. Postpartum depression is a devastating mood disorder which strikes many women during and after pregnancy. It is a serious and disabling condition that affects anywhere from 10 to 20 percent of new mothers. In the United States, there may be as many as 800,000 new cases of postpartum conditions each year. These mothers often experience signs of depression and may lose interest in friends and family, feel overwhelming sadness or even have thoughts of harming the baby or themselves. The cause of postpartum depression is not known, but changes in hormone levels, a difficult pregnancy or birth, a family history of depression and other bio-psychosocial stressors are considered possible factors.Specifically this new law: Increases Research on Postpartum Depression Encourages the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to coordinate and continue research to expand the understanding of the causes of, and find treatments for, postpartum conditions. Encourages a National Public Awareness Campaign, to be administered by HHS, to increase awareness and knowledge of postpartum depression and psychosis. Requires the Secretary of HHS to conduct a study on the benefits of screening for postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis. Includes a Sense of Congress that the Director of the National Institutes of Health may conduct a nationally representative longitudinal study (during the period of fiscal years 2010 through 2019) of the relative mental health consequences for women of resolving a pregnancy (intended or unintended) in various ways, including carrying the pregnancy to term and parenting the child, carrying the pregnancy to term and placing the child for adoption, miscarriage and having an abortion. This study may assess the incidence, timing, magnitude, and duration of the immediate and long-term mental health consequences (positive or negative) of these pregnancy outcomes. Includes important, new amendments to Title V of the Social Security Act (Sec. 512) to provide services to individuals with a postpartum condition and their families. These new programs and services may include delivering or enhancing outpatient and home-based health and support services, including case management and comprehensive treatment services as well as providing education about postpartum conditions. The Secretary is also required to complete a comprehensive study on the benefits of screening for postpartum conditions no later than two years of the enactment of this legislation. Supports Those Struggling with Postpartum Depression Creates a grant program to enable public or nonprofit private entities to deliver or enhance outpatient, inpatient and home-based health and support services, including case management and comprehensive treatment services for individuals with or at risk for postpartum conditions. Activities may also include providing education about postpartum conditions to new mothers and their families, including symptoms, methods of coping with the illness, and treatment resources, in order to promote earlier diagnosis and treatment. Funding Congress also authorized an initial $3 million for fiscal year 2010 while also authorizing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to supplement this amount with other available resources for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 # # # NOTE: Here's a link to an opinion editorial published by Congressman Rush that tells the story of Melanie's struggle against post partum psychosis: https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-bobby-rush/melanies-story-how-one-wo_b_564925.html Also, click on this link to see a YouTube video of Congressman Rush, Senator Menendez, Mrs. Carol Blocker and others in attendance at today's event, in its entirety: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_oosq2oQuzA ###
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection will now come to order. The focus of today's hearing is the Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2010 draft legislation. "Two month ago, we assessed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's functionality and effectiveness. The unfortunate accident resulting from unintended acceleration revealed to us the need to modernize NHTSA. "The laws were written in the 1960s and 70s and do not reflect today's global market place. I commend Chairman Waxman for his leadership in drafting this important piece of legislation. "These are the five objectives this legislation will address. "First, as I said earlier, it energizes the agency and equips it with the expertise and technology that is needed to achieve its primary goal, while responding to today's rapidly advancing electronics technology that is at the heart of new vehicles. "Second, it promotes safety and innovation by establishing tougher, baseline standards that better protect consumers. "Third, it enhances enforcement mechanisms by increasing the agency authority to remove vehicles from the road if it poses a serious, imminent hazard and if its manufacturers did not take action. "Fourth, it increases transparency and accountability. The concepts of transparency and accountability are a prerequisite for any effective policy regulation. "And last but, certainly, not least as we reform the safety standards for consumers with this legislation, we are also protecting our industries by helping to save jobs, by allowing them to continue to regain consumer confidence in their brands as they continue to build and sell cars and to, generally, help America's auto industry stay competitive in the global economy. "This is what the proposed The Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2010 will do. "Some in the public will question the need for new legislation to improve the safety and quality of vehicles. I strongly disagree with them. "Despite the fact that I am sure auto makers are attempting to win back consumers and improve the safety standards and equipment in their vehicles, I think it's more than reasonable to say that perhaps the horrific, unintended acceleration incidents that have been well documented before this subcommittee and others might not have happened if these regulations were already on the books. "It is my firm belief that this legislation and the reforms it mandates are long overdue. Simply put, it is time to act. "Before I yield back my time, I want to thank the witnesses for taking time out of their schedule to advise members of this subcommittee. The draft legislation we are going to examine today is the result of a series of consultations with both consumer groups and manufacturers. We all have the same objectives: saving lives, preventing injuries and reducing risks through technology, education, safety standards and enforcement. It has been a collective and constructive effort. I am looking forward to hearing from you. "Thank you again. And with that, I yield the balance of my time." # # #
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection will now come to order. The focus of today's hearing is the Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2010 draft legislation. "Two month ago, we assessed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's functionality and effectiveness. The unfortunate accident resulting from unintended acceleration revealed to us the need to modernize NHTSA. "The laws were written in the 1960s and 70s and do not reflect today's global market place. I commend Chairman Waxman for his leadership in drafting this important piece of legislation. "These are the five objectives this legislation will address. "First, as I said earlier, it energizes the agency and equips it with the expertise and technology that is needed to achieve its primary goal, while responding to today's rapidly advancing electronics technology that is at the heart of new vehicles. "Second, it promotes safety and innovation by establishing tougher, baseline standards that better protect consumers. "Third, it enhances enforcement mechanisms by increasing the agency authority to remove vehicles from the road if it poses a serious, imminent hazard and if its manufacturers did not take action. "Fourth, it increases transparency and accountability. The concepts of transparency and accountability are a prerequisite for any effective policy regulation. "And last but, certainly, not least as we reform the safety standards for consumers with this legislation, we are also protecting our industries by helping to save jobs, by allowing them to continue to regain consumer confidence in their brands as they continue to build and sell cars and to, generally, help America's auto industry stay competitive in the global economy. "This is what the proposed The Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 2010 will do. "Some in the public will question the need for new legislation to improve the safety and quality of vehicles. I strongly disagree with them. "Despite the fact that I am sure auto makers are attempting to win back consumers and improve the safety standards and equipment in their vehicles, I think it's more than reasonable to say that perhaps the horrific, unintended acceleration incidents that have been well documented before this subcommittee and others might not have happened if these regulations were already on the books. "It is my firm belief that this legislation and the reforms it mandates are long overdue. Simply put, it is time to act. "Before I yield back my time, I want to thank the witnesses for taking time out of their schedule to advise members of this subcommittee. The draft legislation we are going to examine today is the result of a series of consultations with both consumer groups and manufacturers. We all have the same objectives: saving lives, preventing injuries and reducing risks through technology, education, safety standards and enforcement. It has been a collective and constructive effort. I am looking forward to hearing from you. "Thank you again. And with that, I yield the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: Chairman Rush's opening statement and all other supporting documents from this hearing may be viewed, in their entirety, at the Committee on Energy and Commerce website by clicking on the link below: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1993:hearing-on-hr-the-motor-vehicle-safety-act&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
05.04.2010	CHICAGO -- In a speech in Houston on Monday, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) called on the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Executive Directors of the World Bank and the African Development Bank to support the establishment of Clean Energy Research Centers and Clean Energy Equipment Financing Facilities for the Gulf of Guinea. Rush, along with other Members of Congress who represent Houston, U. S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee and U. S. Rep. Al Green, jointly expressed their support for clean energy technology research and equipment exports during a congressional briefing held at the Greater Houston Partnership in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson Center on the subject "The Impact of U.S. Energy Policy on Trade with the Gulf of Guinea." Houston and Chicago were recently selected as two of four American cities to participate in the World Bank Group's Public Sector Liaison Officer Network, an organization comprised of 100 business intermediary organizations, in 80 countries, working to foster trade and investment between participating countries with the support of the World Bank Group's products and services. The World Bank estimates that over 150 billion cubic meters of natural gas are flared or vented annually, an amount worth approximately $30.6 billion. This volume is an amount that is equivalent to 25 percent of the United States' gas consumption or 30 percent of the European Union's gas consumption per year. This flaring is highly concentrated in 10 countries that, together, account for 75 percent of global emissions, with the largest flaring operations occurring in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. The U.S. currently imports approximately 15 percent of its oil and gas supplies from West African countries along the coast of the Gulf of Guinea. This level is expected to increase to 25% to 30% by 2020. The U.S. is also the largest importer of oil and gas from this region. While the U.S. pursues an energy policy that seeks to decrease its dependence on foreign oil and decrease its contribution to global warming, it is essential that the U.S. provide support to these key strategic partners to help reduce carbon emissions and gas flaring associated with meeting our market needs while alternative sources of energy are scaled up. The proposal seeks to replicate a $37 million Department of Energy grant to China for research centers that was matched by the grantees, resulting in $75 million in total U.S. research. Under the proposed U.S.-Gulf of Guinea Clean Energy Research Center project, the U.S. Department of Energy will provide grants to regional universities and technology centers, with matching funds from the grantee or the host country, and the African Development Bank. The research will focus on advancing technologies for building energy efficiency, carbon capture and storage, and clean energy/anti-flaring/pollution control, biomass and other alternative energy solutions. The Members of Congress who participated in the forum have encouraged the Obama Administration to include this initiative in the U.S.-Nigeria as well as in the U.S.-Angola Bi-National Commission discussions. Congressman Rush joined Chris Wilmot, Chairman of the Greater Houston Partnership's World Bank Task Force, in calling on Robert Zoellick, President of the World Bank, to establish financing facilities for clean energy projects in the Gulf of Guinea that can be complimented with financing from OPIC, EXIM and the African Development Bank. These recommendations also encourage these financial institutions which receive U.S. government funding to include minority firms. Congressman Rush also expressed his support for the establishment of the Gulf of Guinea Energy Fund. The emergence of this fund was in response to new, local content laws in the region and recommendations outlined in a 2005 Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Report that called for the establishment of new financing facilities and joint ventures between major oil companies and indigenous companies with a particular emphasis on including U.S., minority-owned firms. The briefing was held on the first day of the Offshore Technology Conference, an event designed to engage leading government and industry representatives from Africa as well as senior executives from U.S. oil companies to help develop legislation supporting U.S. trade and energy policy toward the Gulf of Guinea region in West Africa. ###
05.03.2010	(L to R) Bob Ryan, vice president of Comcast Government Affairs; U.S. Congressman Bobby Rush (D-IL01); Charisse Lille, executive vice president of the Comcast Foundation, and, Michael Parker, vice president of Comcast’s Engineering and Operations, pitch in at the recent Comcast Cares Day service project at the Yancey Boys & Girls Club in Washington Park. At the project, Comcast presented the Yancey Boys & Girls Club with a $25,000 grant from The Comcast Foundation to further its work, and announced the Club would receive free TV and Internet service for a year. More than 150 Comcast employees, family members, friends and Boys & Girls Club supporters performed painting, landscaping, cleanup and network wiring at the Club, which was one of hundreds of service projects nationwide. More than 57,000 volunteers took part in Comcast Cares Day, including more than 5,400 in Illinois. Congressman Bobby Rush (center) rolled up his sleeves at the recent Comcast Cares Day service project at the Yancey Boys & Girls Club in Washington Park. At the project, Comcast presented the Yancey Boys & Girls Club with a $25,000 grant from The Comcast Foundation to further its work, and announced the Club would receive free TV and Internet service for a year. More than 150 Comcast employees, family members, friends and Boys & Girls Club supporters performed painting, landscaping, cleanup and network wiring at the Club, which was one of hundreds of service projects nationwide. More than 57,000 volunteers took part in Comcast Cares Day, including more than 5,400 in Illinois.
04.28.2010	CHICAGO -- U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL.) and members of his Advisory Council on Asian Affairs will recognize the dedication and hard work of individuals, community organizations and media in Illinois’ Asian-American community during a gala reception in recognition of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month on Friday, May 14, from 5:30pm until 8:00pm at the Ralph Metcalfe Federal Building, 3rd Floor, Room 331, 77 West Jackson Blvd. This is the 12th year the congressman has hosted this special event. "In honor of the 2010 Asian Pacific American Heritage Month I am pleased to acknowledge the important work being done on behalf of Asian American community in Illinois," Rep. Rush said. "We can all take pride in the enormous progress and many positive contributions the Asian American community has made in the arts, business, education, medicine, technology and sciences in the United States." The consul generals of China, Japan, India, Korea, Philippine, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand and some of the non-Asian consul generals such as British, South Africa, Canada, Germany, France have been invited along with various community-based organizations and government agencies. A special tribute will commemorate the lives of prominent Asian Pacific Americans who have died over the past year. Rep. Rush is the only member who has created this council represented by the representatives from Bangladesh, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Korea, Laotian, Malaysia, Philippine, Pakistan, Thailand, Vietnam and Taiwan. The event is open to the general public. ###
04.28.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning and welcome to each of our witnesses. Thank you for appearing before the subcommittee today. At this hearing, we will discuss the public sale of more than 100,000 travel trailers and homes by the General Services Administration (GSA). For these transactions, the GSA served as the sales agent of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). "Ladies and gentlemen, if you didn't know more than what I just said, most of you would probably say, "That's interesting. That's an awfully big lot of trailers…the government is selling off a lot of property. Maybe I should run down to the court house or hop online to take advantage of a deal like that!” But, these are not, just your typical travel trailers. They are the very same trailers that FEMA purchased and provisioned as emergency housing for hundreds of thousands of displaced Gulf Coast residents. "Unbelievably, these are the same trailers that made thousands of people ill, some severely ill, from exposure to formaldehyde gasses and vapors. Young children, elderly people and those with serious respiratory conditions, from asthma to bronchitis, inhaled these vapors over long, extended periods of time. Am I the only one left scratching his head at this outcome? "My first reaction was to fire off a letter to FEMA and GSA to find out more about the status of the sales. I asked the heads of these agencies a range of questions, beginning with what steps each of them had taken before disposing of contaminated property. "How did they notify buyers that these trailers could be contaminated by excessive formaldehyde? And, if newly proposed standards had been proposed, might it have resulted in reduced formaldehyde exposure? "I'd like to thank GSA and FEMA for promptly responding, and explaining, the courses of action they took before making their decision to go forward with the sale of the trailers. "But, let me state for the record that I would have liked to have seen the federal government commit to more testing of these trailers before bringing them to sale. "I also think it would have been a good idea if the government had come up with better safeguards than simply posting warning stickers and certifications to advise and protect the public. "I genuinely want our discussion, today, to shed more light on some of the other options for disposing of the surplus trailers that actually came up for discussion. I'd also like to know what other options could have been implemented that would have kept FEMA's costs down and whether or not those possible courses of action should have been the subject of greater discussion or, even, action. "Has it been so long ago since Hurricanes Katrina and Rita took place that our nation has forgotten the painful lessons these epic disasters taught us? I hope not. "This August will mark the five-year anniversary of these tragic events. It is my sincere hope that this hearing will help us to review what we have learned from that experience so we will not repeat these failures in future emergencies and crises. "I salute the proud and courageous people of our Gulf Coast states who have moved forward since these events occurred. They've pulled together and demonstrated remarkable grace and resilience to repair what was broken and to replace what was lost. "May God continue to bless and keep you. I look forward to hearing from all of today's witnesses. "With that, I yield back the balance of my time. " # # # NOTE: Chairman Rush's opening statement, a policy briefing memo, copies of all witness testimony and an audio file of the proceedings are posted and may be viewed, in its entirety, at the Committee on Energy and Commerce website by clicking on the link below. A companion video will soon be posted to our website: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1975:public-sales-of-hurricane-katrinarita-fema-trailers-are-they-safe-or-environmental-time-bombs&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
04.27.2010	CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL01) added his voice to the growing opposition to a call by two state lawmakers for the Illinois National Guard to take an active role in curbing escalating violence in the city by saying high crime areas are in need of "jobs and opportunity" instead. The congressman said, "We don’t need military might, we need jobs, training programs and economic opportunity. The National Guard will only make matters worse and show residents in our most troubled areas of the city that we have run out of solutions. We don’t need tanks rolling down the streets of Englewood. We don’t want to see Black Hawk helicopters flying over Lawndale." Rep. Rush recently introduced comprehensive legislation to address chronic youth unemployment and said the passage of the bill will go a long way toward reducing violent crimes in communities where people are hopeless and lack opportunities but have easy access to guns and drugs. The $8 billion, "Employing Youth for the American Dream Act of 2010" [H.R. 4920] sets forth a combination of training dollars, apprenticeship programs, employer grants for on-the-job training, tax incentives and preferences for teen hiring and opportunities for disconnected and at-risk youth between the ages of 16 to 24. It was introduced in the House on March 24 of this year and currently is seeking 100 co-sponsors. "The less opportunity people have the angrier they become and, the angrier they become the more likely they are to resolve conflict with acts of aggression," Rep. Rush said. "Our young people need jobs and year-round opportunities, not just for three months of summer. America needs a trained and qualified workforce. African American teens are unemployed at a rate of 39.3 percent compared to 30.1 percent for Latino youth and 23.3 percent for white teens. Overall, we are talking 4.4 million youth, nationwide, who are unemployed and actively seeking work—and many of them will be on the streets this summer with nothing else to do." In addition to the youth employment bill introduced this year, Rep. Rush has been fighting to advance legislation would require all weapon manufacturers in the U.S. to create a "gun identification number" to make it easier to track the sale and use of illegal guns. Currently, the Blair Holt bill remains in the House. He also introduced legislation to make conflict resolution training mandatory in schools serving at-risk youth. ###
04.22.2010	CHICAGO -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL01) teamed with the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) Secretary Ray LaHood in an aggressive effort to increase access to and contracting opportunities for small, minority-owned businesses. Nearly 400 business leaders and entrepreneurs attended "Chicago Small Business Day" forum organized the congressman and USDOT and head at Chicago Transit Authority headquarters downtown. Rep. Rush announced during the "Access to Capital: How to Contract with the Government" forum that USDOT would kick off a 10-week course to ensure small business owners are fully aware of federal bonding requirements, and how to comply, as part of the contracting process. The workshop brought a wide of array of federal, state and local agencies together to answer questions from the small business community. "This is good is good government at work," Rep. Rush told the standing-room only audience. "Today small and minority and women owned businesses will be able to connect with federal, state and local government agencies for a variety of contracting opportunities. Small businesses are the life blood of our economy and the number one creator of new jobs. That is why I have worked hard in Congress to strengthen the Small Business Administration, to open up doors of opportunity, to connect entrepreneurs with economic opportunity, and, to ensure that all will have access to capital and a level playing field." Secretary LaHood also announced a new bonding education program aimed at helping qualified small and disadvantaged businesses compete for government contracting opportunities. In collaboration with the Surety and Fidelity Association of America (SFAA), the U.S. Department of Transportation's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) will host a series of pilot education workshops to get small businesses bond ready. The start dates and city locations for the pilots are Chicago, May 27; Dallas, June 10; and Atlanta, June 24. "President Obama, Vice President Biden and I want to ensure that as the economy recovers, small businesses have every opportunity to compete successfully for contracts in the transportation and construction industries," said Secretary LaHood. "I commend Congressman Rush for being a champion for small businesses "We think this program will go a long way to provide the type of targeted assistance that small businesses competing in the transportation industry need right now," said OSDBU Director Brandon Neal. "It will really help level the playing field for smaller companies eager to compete." On the bonding barriers, Rep. Rush said, "The lack of bonding, largely due to the lack of access to adequate capital, has often kept minority-owned firms from venturing into the federal marketplace. The ability to get bonded is largely dependent on a business leader's ability to access adequate levels of working capital—access which has often proven to be problematic for minority-owned firms. These firms often start out with less than their non-minority competitors and are more likely to be denied loans than their non-minority competitors. "Among firms with gross receipts under half a million dollars, loan denial rates for minority-owned firms were about three times higher than majority-owned companies. What compounds this problem, further, is that even if a minority firm can get a loan, chances are it will be significantly less than a non-minority firm," he said. Last year, the average loan amount for all high sales, minority-owned firms was $149,000 compared to about $310,000 for majority-owned companies. U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Director Brandon Neal, Chicago Transit Authority President Richard L. Rodriguez, US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Illinois Transportation Secretary Gary Hannig and Lynn M. Schubert, president, The Surety & Fidelity Association of America joined in a recent effort to increase federal contracting opportunities for minority, women and disadvantaged businesses. Nearly 400 business leaders participated in the Chicago Small Business Day Event hosted by Rep. Rush on April 22nd. U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL01) teamed with the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) Secretary Ray LaHood on April 22nd in a creative effort to increase access to and contracting opportunities for small, minority-owned businesses. Nearly 400 business leaders and entrepreneurs attended “Chicago Small Business Day” program organized the congressman at Chicago Transit Authority headquarters in downtown Chicago.
04.21.2010	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) applauded the Obama Administration's decision to fund a regional energy-saving collaboration led by the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP). The collaborative will receive $25 million to transform the market for carrying out energy-efficient retrofits to commercial and residential buildings in northeastern Illinois. The announcement part of $452 million in Recovery Act "Retrofit Ramp-Up" awards made public by Vice President Joe Biden in honor of upcoming Earth Day. Last December at the urging of Rush, members of Chicago-area congressional delegation wrote the U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu and urged the department to fund a comprehensive proposal submitted by CMAP. The $25 million will be used to help make energy efficiency affordable for hundreds of thousands of homeowners and businesses. The federal legislators argued that a regional approach would bring together fragmented energy resources and initiatives under one umbrella to create a seamless metropolitan-wide retrofit program for approximately 74,000 units in the first three years. "I applaud the Obama Administration for funding this worthwhile project," said Rush, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. "I look forward to seeing huge participation in this project from my constituents for whom these services will be provided. These funds will not only help consumers save dollars and conserve energy, but they will also create jobs. I will continue to work with CMAP to ensure that they reach out to the minority community so they might be able to participate in this process and I will be closely following the outcomes of this participation." "For the hundreds of municipalities in metropolitan Chicago and beyond to Rockford, this will jump-start efforts to save money and energy," said Randy Blankenhorn, CMAP executive director. "The inter-governmental cooperation is extremely significant, as is the potential for long-term economic benefits. With these more-recent stimulus awards, the federal government is demonstrating the importance of regional collaboration to create jobs and address major challenges like energy consumption." ###
04.20.2010	CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01) joined his congressional colleagues in a field hearing, in Chicago, designed to shed light on the Obama Administration's plans to apportion transportation grants and resources throughout the State of Illinois and the Midwest region. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided $8 billion for high-speed and intercity passenger rail and $1.3 billion for Amtrak. The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act (Public Law 110-432), enacted in the 110th Congress, laid the foundation for the Recovery Act investments by creating two grant programs focused on high-speed and intercity passenger rail investment. What follows is the Congressman's statement at today's hearing as well as a link to the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee website with additional information. "Thank you Madame Chairman [Corinne Brown] for the opportunity to participate in this important and timely field hearing to examine High-Speed Rail Grants provided under the 2009 Recovery Act. "Ranking Member Shuster, Chairman Oberstar, Ranking Member Mica, members of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and my friend and Chicago colleague, Rep. Schakowsky. "Madame Chairman, while the United States led the world in rail development during the 19th and early 20th century, we have now fallen woefully behind countries in Europe and Asia in developing modern, intercity passenger rail. "However, the recent actions of the Congress, most notably the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 and the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, coupled with President Obama's "Vision for High-Speed Rail" plan, appear to have us chartering a course that will, hopefully, move us forward in the development of a world-class, second to none, 21st century network of high-speed and intercity passenger rail corridors. "This hearing, today, will focus on one of this nation's key strategic transportation regions, the Midwest, which was the recipient of nearly $2.6 billion of the $8 billion awarded for High-Speed Rail programs by the Administration, last January, as authorized by Congress in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. "This award is not only expected to have an up-front job and economic impact, but it will also help spur economic growth in communities across the Midwest, and provide a faster and more energy-efficient means of travel. "The Midwest High-Speed Rail Corridor, with Chicago as the hub, was authorized just prior to my election to Congress in 1992 as the very first in the nation. Studies conducted during the 1980s had concluded that relative to ridership, revenue and air/rail market share, the Midwest corridor would be one of the leading corridors in the United States. "But this effort to reshape our rail transportation system will pose significant challenges. After decades of relatively modest investment in passenger rail, we have a dwindling pool of expertise in the field and a lack of manufacturing capacity. That is why I was pleased to join with you last week, Madame Chairman, in writing to President Obama to seek a dedicated revenue source for planning and development of high-speed rail. To overcome these challenges we must continue to develop strong partnerships among state and local governments, railroads, manufacturers, and other key stakeholders, coupled with the renewed federal commitment that we now have before us. "I look forward to hearing from this distinguished panel of witnesses who, in fact, have been so instrumental in developing the type of partnership necessary to make High-Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail a reality in the Midwest. "Thank you Madame Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time." ### NOTE: Here's a link to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee's website with more detailed information on this subject:https://transportation.house.gov/News/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1172
04.20.2010	WASHINGTON –– "This morning, our nation learned that yet another transcendent leader of our nation's civil and human rights movement, Dr. Dorothy Irene Height, has gone home to be with God. "I honestly don't know what it will be like to work in our nation's capital without the esteemed ‘godmother' of the Civil Rights Movement in our midst. "Time does not permit me to give a soaring tribute to this 98-year-old woman whose place in our nation's history was launched when she was denied entry to the college of her choice, in 1929. You see, at that time, despite her academic acceptance, Barnard had set an artificial quota of allowing only two African Americans for admittance each year. "Well, well, well, look what "Number 3" did with her life! "Whenever I reflect upon the impact Dr. Dorothy Height had upon our nation, I will always think of a woman of steely determination and grit. But I will also remember someone who reveled in the grace of being a pioneering woman as her many colorful hats would attest! "This Presidential Medal of Freedom honoree leaves our nation with a, literal, monument to her accomplishments in the form of the National Council of Negro Women Headquarters Building, at 633 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., a building that they own. And you know what? It's a building that's in the same neighborhood of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.––a home that, right now, is occupied by a President and a First Lady who, like Dr. Height, dared to dream big dreams. "May God bless and keep Dr. Dorothy Height and the men and women of this nation who loved her." # # #
04.16.2010	WASHINGTON –– "America lost a man of unusual stature, grace and accomplishment, yesterday, when former NAACP Executive Director, Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks, died peacefully at his home, in the city of his birth, Memphis, Tennessee. "Dr. Hooks assumed the mantle of leadership of our nation’s most preeminent civil rights organization at a time when, in the late 1970s, heated rhetoric held sway over our nation’s public discourse as extremist elements fought hard to undermine or eliminate-through activism and violence-most of the landmark legal victories and legislation, including affirmative action and busing to integrate America’s public schools, that Dr. Hooks, myself and others worked hard to achieve. Yet he never gave up the fight and he never relented in his life-long battle to ensure that every man, woman and child in this nation could be the beneficiary of equal treatment under the law and fair treatment in the workplace. "Like most icons of his generation, his life was varied and complex. Dr. Hooks fought for his country during WWII and was honorably discharged with the rank of Staff Sergeant. He attended law school at the DePaul University College of Law and, after graduating in 1948, he became one of the few black attorneys in Memphis, Tennessee in the 1950s. Dr. Hooks went on to become the first African American to be appointed to the criminal court bench in his native Tennessee and, following stints as an entrepreneur and his growing leadership in the black church, this ordained Baptist minister, who boldly befriended President Richard Nixon, went on to be appointed by Nixon, in 1972, to the Federal Communications Commission-the first African American to be so honored. "In 1951, while developing his legal practice in Memphis, Dr. Hooks married his life partner, Frances Dancy. Their love and devotion to one another grew over the years and, in 2001, he and Frances joyously renewed their wedding vows for the third time. "I think it says a lot about the character of the man who, under his leadership, expanded the membership rolls of the NAACP by more than one million while, at the same time, masterfully spoke truth to power under the leadership of two Republican Presidents-Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush-an experience he once described as having been his "misfortune" given their repeated attempts to eviscerate much of the gains of the civil rights movement. "Dr. Hooks’ leadership and enduring legacy of justice, love and hoped for prosperity for the least of these among us was honored by the son of the President he so often challenged when, in 2007, President George W. Bush presented him with our nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. "My wife, Carolyn, and I extend our prayers and heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Frances Hooks and their daughter, Patricia Gray, on the passing of their husband and father. I hope they take comfort in the knowledge that our nation is a much better place thanks to the life and pioneering work of Dr. Benjamin Hooks." # # #
04.15.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today Rep. Bobby L. Rush, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, and Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released a discussion draft of legislation to revise the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), the primary statute governing the safety of chemicals in commerce, which has not been updated since its enactment in 1976. Over the last two decades, a number of regulatory and enforcement barriers to effective implementation of TSCA have been identified, and there has been a growing consensus that TSCA should be amended. In 2009, the Government Accountability Office named TSCA a "high-risk" priority and one of the areas most in need of broad reform. The Environmental Protection Agency and other stakeholders, including the American Chemistry Council and a public health, labor, and environmental coalition, have issued principles enumerating their priorities for legislation. These various sets of principles all have a remarkable degree of similarity. In addition, many other stakeholders have shared their opinions on how to reform various provisions of TSCA. This draft legislation reflects reasoned consideration of stakeholder and EPA priorities and recommendations. "Through the open stakeholder process that we are commencing today, I am optimistic that the discussion draft of my bill to reform the Toxic Substances Control Act will lead to a number of constructive improvements," said Subcommittee Chairman Rush. "Already, the Environmental Protection Agency, the states, industry, environmental groups and labor have provided substantial assistance to the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade & Consumer Protection in this endeavor. This process is well worth the additional investment of time to ensure that the bill I ultimately introduce enables the EPA to better regulate, understand the properties of, and manage the health and environmental risks associated with the tens of thousands of chemicals that we find in our communities, homes, personal and work spaces, food and our bodies." "For decades, Congress has been told that the Toxic Substances Control Act is failing its mission and is in desperate need of reform," said Chairman Waxman. "In order to protect all Americans from toxic exposures and the adverse effects they cause, Congress must strengthen this failing law." The Chairmen will be working with Members of the Committee and stakeholders to refine the legislative draft in anticipation of consideration later this year.The discussion draft, bill summary, and section-by-section are posted on the Committee website or can be emailed upon request. # # # Here's a link to the Energy and Commerce Website and the three, discussion draft documents: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1956:chairmen-rush-waxman-release-discussion-draft-of-the-toxic-chemicals-safety-act&catid=122:media-advisories&Itemid=55
04.14.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Rush reacted to news that four people, including two children, were shot and killed, and two others wounded on the 7200 block of S. Mozart by denouncing the murders as senseless violence, a result of unchecked rage and a disregard for life."We live in a society where increasingly people are devaluing human life," Rush said. "To kill four people, including a pregnant woman and a baby, represents an insidious rage with no bounds. This is why we must ensure that people in crisis have access to mental health services, family counseling and conflict resolution programs. I do not know what went through the mind of the suspect who has reaped this devastation upon a family, upon a community and upon our nation. We all must grapple to make sense of the matter, if any sense can be made at all."What can be said about those who do not value the lives of others," he continued. "I am grateful police have apprehended a suspect and we want speedy justice for those who have died and injured. In the meantime, let us do all we can to live to together as part of the human family, and work toward a society where guns and senseless violence has no place."###
04.14.2010	WASHINGTON –– This afternoon, on the heels of the conclusion of President Barack Obama's historic, two-day Nuclear Security Summit where leaders of 47 nations came together to advance a common approach to reduce the threat of nuclear weapons in our lifetime, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-01-IL) and his co-hosts, Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGc) Co-Chair, U. S. Rep. Donald L. Payne (D-10-NJ), joined Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Barbara Lee (D-9-CA), convened an historic gathering to discuss international trade, economic security and related issues with His Excellency Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, Acting President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. This closed meeting, open only briefly to the press, was held in the U. S. Capitol Building and marks the latest of a series of meetings and legislative activity, undertaken by Messrs. Rush and Payne, aimed at strengthening cultural, economic and international trade relations between the United States and nations on the continent of Africa. Rep. Rush shared the following opening statement at this afternoon's gathering:"Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us this afternoon."To my Dear Excellency, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, to the esteemed governors, ministers and distinguished guests, it is my pleasure to welcome you, today, to what we, in America, proudly call "The People's House." "I also want to thank my friend, colleague and Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, the Honorable Barbara Lee, and my friend and co-chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus, the Honorable Donald Payne, both of whom have joined me, today, as co-hosts of this important meeting. "Also, let me add that I am glad to have Eric Ufoh here with us, this afternoon, and I want to acknowledge all of his good work in helping to make this meeting happen. I am always happy to see our former Capitol Hill staffers succeed in their native country. This demonstrates the importance of the role the Diaspora can play in solidifying the cultural and trade relationship between our nations, which is a segue to why we are here this afternoon. "This is a very special occasion. Unlike any other country on the continent of Africa, Nigeria is the one country that could one day, in the very near future, emerge as a global economic power leading the way in sustainable economic development."This is why my colleagues and I in the Congressional Black Caucus are glad to have this opportunity to meet and engage with you, Mr. President, and your delegation, as you've just completed your participation in the Nuclear Security Summit hosted by President Barack Obama. "The members of the CBC know full well some of the trials and tribulations that Nigeria has undergone. "But, nevertheless, we are hopeful, and we are encouraged by recent developments that have seen an amnesty program and the promise of an equitable share of oil revenues to host communities in the oil-rich, Niger Delta region. These developments help bring stability and the hope for a peaceful and prosperous future in this region, and indeed, for all of Nigeria. "In 2005, the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation released the report, "Breaking the Oil Syndrome: Responsible Hydro-carbon Development in West Africa." One of the co-authors of that report was your current Presidential Advisor on Petroleum Matters, Dr. Emmanuel Egbogah. Nigeria's historic Petroleum Industry Bill, its passage into law and subsequent implementation, would reflect the spirit and substance of many of the recommendations of the CBCF report. That legislation includes local content, transparency and accountability, as well as equitable revenue sharing between the federal government, state and local communities. "And so, in a very real way, based on policy and legislative initiatives, the CBC and your newly formed Administration, Mr. President, share a unique common bond and an opportunity for joint action to ensure that Nigeria, and all of sub-Saharan Africa, are given its rightful standing in America's overseas priorities. "I believe it's important to recognize the mutually beneficial relationships that are inherent in this approach. "Today's gathering is just another illustration of the importance of partnership between the CBC and African leaders. "The Congressional Black Caucus has been the unquestioned leader on promoting better and substantive relations with Africa, not just in terms of the calculation of the national interest but also, and more importantly, in terms of the values of our respective communities whose historic memory traces back to West Africa and to the very shores of the Nigerian homeland. "It is my prayer that this partnership, this friendship and our brotherhood will grow. "I commend you for your leadership and for the quality of the team you have surrounded yourself with to embark on this historic path. It's an important journey that I like to call "the transformation phase of Africa." "I am sure the statement that Nigeria is a "lion dormant" will be turned into "Nigeria is a lion awake." And with Nigeria thriving and economically vibrant, all of Africa will rise. "Mr. Payne and I have introduced a resolution to recognize the economic and strategic importance of Africa. That resolution is in line with the principles of the bi-national commission and it recognizes that Nigeria is one of our nation's true, strategic partners. "Your Excellency, I am looking forward to working with you to accomplish several things. "First, to make sure that as we develop our economic ties and security, we will also make sure that the African Diaspora plays a leading role. Within the 1st Congressional District that I serve in Illinois, we have many successful, small businesses as well as African American businesses that are ready to do business in Nigeria and other countries. "As we move forward, I hope to work with you to help further strengthen Africa's economic and social freedom through a variety of means that include helping your nation to address climate change and the use of technology to further diversify your economy. "My concerns also extend to helping to eradicate corruption, poverty and disease on the continent of Africa. I am also supportive of your efforts to ensure another free and fair election which, of course, helps ensure a peaceful transfer of power from your administration to the next. "As I conclude my remarks, it's worth noting that Nigeria will be celebrating 50 years of independence, in September, a magnificent triumph that will be shared with 16 other African nations. Chairman Payne, my colleagues and I will introduce a resolution that acknowledges America's high regard for this achievement. "Your Excellency, while a lot of progress has been made, much work remains to be done. My colleagues and I in the CBC are supportive of your efforts and we look forwarding to finding creative ways to unite our common interests in a way that benefits the people of Nigeria and the United States. "Again, thank you and all the members of your Delegation for joining us this afternoon." # # #
04.13.2010	CHICAGO – Today, 1st District Congressman Bobby L. Rush urged his constituents to participate in the 2010 U.S. Census so vital community resources are not reduced or lost. Every ten years the U.S. Census Bureau counts people. The total determines how much money a state gets in federal funds (some $400 billion). Chicago households have one of the lowest rates of returning Census forms by mail in the nation."The census is about what kind of community you currently live in and what kind of community you want to live in," said Rush. "If people want quality public schools, equal protection under the law, access to social services, child care, community health centers and hospitals, as well as equal representation in all branches of government, they must be counted. The choice is theres: either use it or lose it."The census data does more than reflect the changing face of America, it allows the government to monitor compliance with anti-discrimination provisions of the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act," Rush also explained. "Government uses the information to also assess the fairness of employment practices and monitor racial disparities in health, education and other public services. So I urge everyone to be counted—and especially minorities and immigrants."Participation in the census is vital and required by law. Just as people are required to respond to jury duty, obtain a driver’s license in order to drive, pay their taxes and report their income, they also have the obligation to respond to the decennial census. Courts are authorized to impose a fine of up to $5,000 for failure to respond.For questions or more information about the 2010 U.S. Census visit www.house.gov/rush or contact the Chicago office of the U.S. Census Bureau at (312) 454-2714 or visit www.census.gov/chicago. ###
04.06.2010	CHICAGO – U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) has named noted public policy expert Louanner Peters as his deputy chief of staff and director of his District-wide operations in Illinois. Peters, a well known fixture in state government and national political circles, brings a wealth of leadership to the representative's team and his constituents. "I feel like I just got the number one player in a first round draft pick," said Rush. "Louanner is an efficient and effective leader. For over three decades she has helped to shape public policy that has greatly improved the quality of life for millions of people across the country—particularly the poor and the young. She is a powerhouse and I am honored to work with her." Peters served as deputy governor in the Office of Governor Rod Blagojevich where she provided oversight and supervision for the Illinois' Health and Social Services, Public Safety, Natural Resources, Historic Preservation and Capitol Development agencies in the areas of policy and program consistency and fiscal management. Most recently she served as chief executive officer for JLP Consulting, LLC, a full-service strategic planning, business development and public affairs firm in Springfield, IL. Peters also worked for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)'s Voter Empowerment Project in the organization's Baltimore headquarters where she coordinated non-partisan voter registration and education campaigns in 21 states. This is not her first time working for the U.S. House of Representatives: between 1981 and 1993, she worked in various capacities for U.S. Rep. Gus Savage (D-IL02) where she drove legislative initiatives for minority business development opportunities and public works as his chief of staff and primary advisor. Over three decades she has built an impressive resume of activism, political advocacy and fiscal management. The savvy administrator holds a B.A. in political science from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge and a master of social work from Jane Addams College of Social Work, University of Illinois in Chicago. "I've spent most of my life in service of others and I am thrilled to be able to continue to serve the people of the 1st congressional District of Illinois as well as my nation," Peters said. "This is a tremendous opportunity and an exciting time to work in Congress. I truly look forward to working with Rep. Rush, our colleagues on the Hill and with our dynamic staff as we continue to fight to put America back to work and level the playing field for so many others." ###
03.31.2010	CHICAGO–U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) will join U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis on Thursday morning, April 1, for the kickoff of the national "We Can Help" public awareness campaign in the shadow of the Jane Addams Hull House Museum, located on the Chicago campus of the University of Illinois. Local workers, advocates and community leaders will also be on hand. The event begins at 11 AM. Through community partnerships, the campaign will connect with America's most vulnerable and low-wage workers. Relevant industries include construction, janitorial work, hotel/motel services, foodservices and home health care. The campaign addresses issues such as rights in the workplace and how to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division to ensure workers can recover wages they are owed. Wage and hour laws apply to all workers in the United States, regardless of immigration status. WHO: Congressman Bobby L. Rush U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis Local workers and worker advocates Local elected officials and community leaders WHAT: “We Can Help” campaign kickoff event, including screening of video public service announcements; Event to be followed by press availability WHEN: Thursday, April 1 Members of the press should arrive no later than 10:45 a.m. CDT. WHERE: Jane Addams Hull House Museum, 750 South Halsted St., Student Center East, 2nd Floor East Terrace ###
03.27.2010	CHICAGO – As part of his continued effort to put America back to work and strengthen small businesses, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) announced an effort to help small and minority business apply for micro loans from $5,000 to $25,000. For some area businesses, the financial boost could be the difference between prosperity and poverty."District Business Loan Day," offered in cooperation with the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Strategies for Small Business/Superior Financial Group, will be held Tuesday, April 6, in on the 2nd floor of The Northern Trust Company, 7801 S. State Street on the city's South Side. Entrepreneurs can apply for the micro loans between the hours of 5:30 PM and 8:00 PM."Our economy will not fully recover until our small businesses fully recover," Rush said. "If we want to see job growth in this country, we need to take action to help small businesses get back on their feet. Business and not government creates jobs and puts people back to work. For many entrepreneurs, micro loans could be the difference between prosperity and poverty."Applicants, with a strong credit rating, should bring a valid driver's license, Federal Tax Identification Number; social security card and business check. No collateral materials or tax returns are necessary. A fee will not be charged for unapproved loan applications.Rep. Rush has been aggressive in launching a series of legislative initiatives that spur research and innovation, ensure small and minority-owned business get their fair share of government contracts, expand SBA lending programs so small business can obtain affordable credit, strengthen the technical services the SBA provides, and help small business gain access to international markets to sell their goods and services. Last week, Rush introduced two major pieces of legislation aimed at helping to alleviate chronic unemployment among America's youth (H.R. 4920), and for providing assistance to small and minority businesses (H.R. 4929). As the chair of the 131-member Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus, the congressman is working with Caucus members and other leaders in the House to advance these bills with other job creation efforts.H.R. 4920 the "Employing Youth for the American Dream Act" (EYADA) is a combination of training dollars, apprenticeship programs, employer grants for on-the-job-training (OJT), tax incentives, preferences for youth hiring and training, and increased opportunities for at-risk teenagers.H.R. 4929 the "Expanding Opportunities for Main Street Act of 2010" amends a series of incentives and stabilization mechanisms aimed at better positioning small businesses to compete and thrive in our global economy. Key provisions in "Division A" include raising the cap for contracts set aside for small businesses to $500,000, modifying the SBA's Disadvantaged Business Development Program by raising the Personal Net Worth Threshold to $1.5 million, raising the federal surety bonding guarantee to $5 million, and extending a key Obama Administration SBA ARC loan program through September, 2011.The 1st Congressional District of Illinois has also partnered with SCORE Chicago to offer free, one-hour counseling sessions to entrepreneurs, start-ups and existing businesses.###
03.25.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Thank you, Chairman Boucher. "Good morning, Chairman Genachowski and FCC Commissioners. We greatly appreciate your willingness to come before this body, today, to discuss the features of the FCC's recently released National Broadband Plan. "As Members of Congress, we have seen far more than our fair share of plans, before, that have promised us the sun, the moon and the stars and celestial bodies, seen and unseen, known and unknown. But very few have been heralded so highly as this plan and its promise to enhance America's ability to improve the life choices of her people and to maintain her status as a global leader. "While I may sound a bit skeptical about this plan, I'm really not. Much of it looks good on paper and, certainly, makes for polished sound bites. I understand the power of new communications technologies and the importance of innovation in linking people and communities; increasing commercial efficiencies and worker productivity; saving our precious energy resources; as well as the opportunity to help heal the sick and safeguard public safety. "The promise of widespread, broadband access is of immense importance to our nation. The unique opportunity we're presented with, at this moment in history, is unprecedented and I want to ensure that Congress and the FCC steps up to the plate to serve the best interests of the American people. "Mr. Chairman, we will not get too many more bites at this apple. If we don't execute this plan comprehensively and thoughtfully, we will miss out on a huge opportunity while also setting back the short- and long-term technology needs and interests of the American people. "I am, therefore, keenly interested in hearing your perspectives--especially on how the increased adoption of broadband can help to drive our economy out of its current doldrums by stimulating new jobs as well as opportunities for small businesses and innovative entrepreneurs. "The plan, as it reads currently, does not provide any recommendations as to how small and minority businesses can stimulate the American economy and it should. I think this is a stunning omission. "Thank you for the time you've extended to me, Chairman Boucher. And thank you for your service Chairman Genachowski, Commissioner Copps, Commissioner McDowell, Commissioner Clyburn and Commissioner Atwell-Baker. "With that, I yield back the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: Congressman Rush's opening statement as well as other key remarks and legislative documents may be viewed, in its entirety, at the Committee on Energy and Commerce website by clicking on the link below: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1942:oversight-of-the-federal-communications-commission-the-national-broadband-plan&catid=134:subcommittee-on-communications-technology-and-the-internet&Itemid=74
03.24.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, advanced a measure that will protect consumers from deceptive funeral practices. The legislation was sparked in response to the Burr Oak Cemetery scandal in Alsip, IL, where law enforcement discovered hundreds of incidents of grave tampering. H.R. 3655, "the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act," directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to promulgate rules requiring ALL cemetery, crematoria, and mausoleum owners to provide clear and conspicuous disclosures and pricing information about their products and services, including costly pre-need contracts, memorials, burial rights, grave liners, and vaults. These owners would also be required to produce and retain existing records pertaining to the location, date, and rights associated with each internment, inurnment, or entombment of human remains. If passed into law, the "Bereaved Consumers Bill of Rights Act," will be a significant first step towards comprehensive and uniform regulation of cemeteries and funeral home practices in the country. The bill also makes misrepresentations of Federal, state, and local requirements and the improper tying of goods and services out to be violations of the FTC Act regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices. The Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act will not preempt state laws or actions. It would enable states' attorney generals to bring civil actions on behalf of state residents in federal District Court for compliance enforcement and for money damages and restitution as deemed appropriate by the Court. The first bill was first introduced on September 25, 2009. "This is a good bill that establishes federal minimums to protect vulnerable consumers from being taken advantage of and levels the playing field between discrete segments of the funeral goods and services industry, which consumers perceive as being a single "one-stop shop" marketplace," Chairman Rush said. "Accordingly, I respectfully urge my colleagues to support the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act so we never have another situation like the one in Burr Oak in our nation again." "I want this bill to stop cemetery salesmen from stretching the truth about which merchandise and services that consumers must purchase to satisfy state and local minimums. This bill would also make it harder to "guilt-trip" and "guilt-trap" consumers into buying more merchandise and services than they need or can afford," Chairman Rush said. In addition to HR 3655, the legislator also argued for a legislative package of consumer protection bills including H.R. 4805, the "Formaldehyde Standards and Composite Wood Products Act," which will provide a level playing field for American manufacturers in competing against importers, who currently do not have to meet these standards unless they sell in California; and, H.R. 3993, the "Calling Card Consumer Protection Act," which would exclude from the definition of "prepaid calling card distributor" certain retail merchants and persons who merely engage in the transport or delivery of prepaid calling cards. For a copy of Chairman Rush's testimony from today's markup or copies of the proposed legislation please visit www.house.gov/rush. ###
03.24.2010	The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection will now come to order. Today, the Subcommittee is meeting to consider H.R. 3655, the "Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act"; H.R. 4805, the "Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products Act," and H.R. 3993, the "Calling Card Consumer Protection Act".Pursuant to Rule 9, the Chairman and ranking Member will each have 5 minutes for opening statements and any other committee member desiring to make an opening statement may take up to 3 minutes.I now yield to myself for 5 minutes for the purpose of making an opening statement.We will consider three bills today. Our subcommittee has held legislative hearings on these bills. I will introduce the Manager's Amendment on each of these bills.The first bill up for consideration is H.R. 3655, the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act. I authored this bill, which was introduced on September 25, 2009.H.R. 3655 directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to promulgate rules requiring ALL cemetery, crematoria, and mausoleum owners to provide clear and conspicuous disclosures and pricing information about their products and services, including costly pre-need contracts, memorials, burial rights, grave liners, and vaults. These owners would also be required to produce and retain existing records pertaining to the location, date, and rights associated with each internment, inurnment, or entombment of human remains.H.R. 3655 makes misrepresentations of Federal, state, and local requirements and the improper tying of goods and services out to be violations of the FTC Act regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices.H.R. 3655 does not preempt state laws or actions. It would enable states' attorney generals to bring civil actions on behalf of state residents in federal District Court for compliance enforcement and for money damages and restitution as deemed appropriate by the Court.This is a good bill that establishes federal minimums to protect vulnerable consumers from being taken advantage of and levels the playing field between discrete segments of the funeral goods and services industry, which consumers perceive as being a single "one-stop shop" marketplace. Accordingly, I respectfully urge my colleagues to support the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act.The second bill that the Subcommittee will take up is H.R. 4805, the "Formaldehyde Standards and Composite Wood Products Act." As we heard at our hearing last week, this legislation would achieve two very important goals: protecting American consumers and protecting American jobs. It would do so by setting a federal standard, based on requirements already set by the State of California, to limit the amount of formaldehyde that can be emitted from composite wood products. H.R. 4805 will provide a level playing field for American manufacturers in competing against importers, who currently do not have to meet these standards unless they sell in California. Consequently, badly needed manufacturing and other jobs are going overseas, and American consumers are less safe. And speaking of protecting Americans, this bill would ensure that there is not a needless repeat of the disaster with the FEMA trailers used after Hurricane Katrina – which made SO, SO many people sick, unnecessarily.I would like to again commend Rep. Matsui for championing the "Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products Act." I respectfully urge my colleagues to support this bill to ensure that we are doing everything we can for both consumers and businesses.The third and final bill we will take up today, H.R. 3993, the "Calling Card Consumer Protection Act," comes before us in the form of a bipartisan Manager's Amendment. I would like to thank Mr. Engel for his leadership and for introducing this critical piece of legislation. The Manager's Amendment makes a number of technical and substantive changes to the bill. Allow me to highlight the most significant changes. The Amendment affords the FTC flexibility to develop disclosures that will benefit consumers and allow users of prepaid calling cards to comparison shop. H.R. 3993 would exclude from the definition of "prepaid calling card distributor" certain retail merchants and persons who merely engage in the transport or delivery of prepaid calling cards. Further, the Amendment includes a new preemption section that is similar to the language included in the bill as it passed the House in the 110th Congress. Under the Amendment, State laws that contain requirements regarding disclosures on calling cards or packaging would be preempted.In addition to provisions currently in the bill that require the FTC to consult with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Amendment adds that should the FCC should initiate a rulemaking on disclosures for prepaid calling cards, it must coordinate with the FTC. Finally, the Amendment requires the FTC, in consultation with the FCC, to conduct a study of the prepaid wireless industry. I respectfully urge my colleagues to support the bipartisan Manager's Amendment that is being offered today on H.R. 3993.With that, I yield back the balance of my time and I recognize now the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee for the purposes of opening statements, Mr. Whitfield, the gentleman from Kentucky.
03.24.2010	WASHINGTON - Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-O1) introduced two major pieces of legislation aimed at helping to alleviate chronic unemployment among America's youth (H.R. 4920), and for providing assistance to small and minority businesses (H.R. 4929). As the chair of the 131-member Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus, Rush is working with Caucus members and other leaders in the House to advance these bills with other job creation efforts."With respect to the economy, when middle-class workers catch a cold, youth, ethnic minorities and others who struggle on the economic margins of our economy get pneumonia. With the introduction of these two important pieces of legislation, I am signaling to my House colleagues, the Obama Administration and, indeed, to the nation that our young people and America's innovative, small business leaders must be a top priority in all of our job creation and legislative deliberations. Their interests simply cannot wait. The legislation I've introduced today, represents a strong, comprehensive step forward at a time when our nation needs it most," said Rush. Rush introduced these bills at a time when nearly 70 percent of youth, between the ages of 16 and 24, are chronically unemployed. Today also marked the release of the National Urban League's annual "State of Black America" report. This year's report noted that, last month, blacks were unemployed at nearly twice the rate of whites, 15.9 percent to 8.8 percent. Rush added, "It's glaring economic disparities like those noted by the Urban League and others that make it all the more important for our nation's elected leadership to work in a bipartisan, concerted effort to put every unemployed American back to work—especially our youth—and to do so as quickly as possible."H.R. 4920 the "Employing Youth for the American Dream Act" (EYADA) is a combination of training dollars, apprenticeship programs, employer grants for on-the-job-training (OJT), tax incentives, preferences for youth hiring and training, and increased opportunities for at-risk teenagers. The bill also creates a federally funded public service employment program that focuses on year-round jobs in parks, education and infrastructure for young people. This $8 billion bill aims to alleviate chronic unemployment, reduce the national drop-out rate, decrease youth violence, and provide pathways of opportunity for young people and at-risk youth.Key provisions include a $2 billion appropriation to the Workforce Investment Act (WIA) for the expansion of the Summer Jobs for Youth enrolled in the WIA system through age 24. On-the-Job Training Tax Incentives are also included in this proposed legislation including a proposal to increase the WIA funding available to $750 million for OJT for businesses to train and hire disconnected youth (out-of-school, out of work youth through age 24). Each contractor under OJT can now receive a subsidy for up to $4,000 upon youth employment. In addition, the legislation allows providers to include faith-based and public sector organizations, in addition to private employers.Rush crafted H.R. 4929 the "Expanding Opportunities for Main Street Act of 2010" in a manner that expands or amends a series of incentives and stabilization mechanisms aimed at better positioning small businesses to compete and thrive in our global economy. Key provisions in "Division A" include raising the cap for contracts set aside for small businesses to $500,000, modifying the SBA's Disadvantaged Business Development Program by raising the Personal Net Worth Threshold to $1.5 million, raising the federal surety bonding guarantee to $5 million, and extending a key Obama Administration SBA ARC loan program through September, 2011.The bill also seeks to strengthen the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) through a series of steps including providing technical and contracting assistance to qualified minority businesses, and by authorizing the Director of the MBDA to provide loan guarantees to qualified minority businesses up to $500,000. In addition, this section meets the long standing request by U. S. small businesses for the creation of a national database of minority firms which federal, prime contractors may refer to when looking for firms to partner with in subcontracts. Targeted hiring provisions also resemble provisions that were included in the House climate bill that creates a pipeline of underrepresented workers in federal construction and infrastructure projects.# # #
03.24.2010	{WASHINGTON, D.C. - With nearly 5 million youth between the ages of 16 to 24 being unemployed, today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) took a significant step toward eradicating youth unemployment by introducing a $8 billion bill that aims to alleviate chronic unemployment, reduce the national drop-out rate, decrease youth violence, and provide a pathways of opportunity for young people and at-risk youth. H.R. 4920 the "Employing Youth for the American Dream Act" (EYADA) is a combination of training dollars, apprenticeship programs, employer grants for on-the-job-training, tax incentives, and preferences for youth hiring and opportunities for at-risk teenagers. The bill also creates a federally funded public service employment program that focuses on year-round jobs in parks, education, and infrastructure for young people. "We all know the unemployment rate for adults is staggering but rarely do we discuss just how bad it is for our most vulnerable citizens--young people," Rep. Rush said. "More than 60 percent of our eligible youth workers cannot find employment and nearly half of all African American youth are unemployed. Our youth need work and opportunity now, otherwise we condemn an entire generation to the pitfalls of poverty and despair." "We neglect these young people, especially those who are no longer in school, unable to find jobs, and are not being trained to be productive citizens," Rep. Rush continued, "but then we’re left to wonder and pontificate on why a large percentage of unemployed and troubled youth resort to antisocial or violent behavior. There are few after-school programs and no jobs. EYADA seeks to address that." From April to July 2009, the number of employed youth 16 to 24 years old increased by 1.6 million to 19.3 million, the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor reported in August. The youth unemployment rate is the highest rate on record since 1948. Highlights of H.R. 4920 Employing Youth Jobs for the American Dream Act of 2010 Infrastructure Training Set-Asides & Apprenticeship Priority - Authorizes a priority set aside program for all infrastructure, transportation or green energy job creation projects created in fiscal year 2011 to be targeted to support training and placement for disconnected youth. Provide preference with these job creation funds to contractors that create apprenticeships targeting youth from communities with "high unemployment," as determined by the Secretary of Labor. Summer Youth Jobs Initiatives - Authorizes $2 billion to the Workforce Investment Act for the expansion of the Summer Jobs for Youth enrolled in the WIA system through age 24. On-the-Job Training Tax Incentives - Increase the WIA funding available to $750 million for OJT for businesses to train and hire disconnected youth (out-of-school, out of work youth through age 24). Each contract under OJT can now receive subsidy for up to $4000 upon youth employment. Allows providers to include faith based and public sector organizations, in addition to private employers. Public Service Employment - Creates a federal public service employment program, authorized at $5 billion to support a national public service initiative that puts people to work in local parks, roads, schools and after school programs. Establishes priority for jobs to the long-term unemployed, low-income individuals, and disconnected youth (out-of-school, out of work youth through age 24). WHY H.R. 4920 MATTERS According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the youth labor force, those between the ages of 16 - 24 working or actively looking for work, grows sharply between April and July each year. During these months, large numbers of high school and college students take or search for summer jobs, and many graduates enter the labor market to look for or begin permanent employment. "This bill is just as important as health care as far as I’m concerned," said 19-year-old Anthony Rucker, a 2008 graduate from Las Casa High School in Chicago’s South Side. "When I don’t work that just gives me more time to be outside, hanging on the block and get in trouble. I need some type of work experience under my belt so I can step forward in the real world." "Working helps you get the experience you’ll need as an adult," said Darielle Coleman, 16, a sophomore at Robeson High School, who finds seasonal work with local social service agencies. "Some of my friends don’t do anything but hang out and smoke weed and drink and get in trouble all the time. If they had jobs they’d be more focused on the future. I think what Congressman Rush is doing is important, even though people might not care right now. They will care when this pays off in the future." Twenty-one year old Robbins, IL, resident Eric Goudeau has been unemployed for the past two years, despite graduating from high school and earning a reputation as a neighborhood auto mechanic. In the past he has worked at car washes, grocery stores and factories. "This will get a lot of young kids off the street and give them something positive to do. I thank Congressman Rush for giving us the opportunity to stand up for ourselves," he said. Lucia Gonzalez, 18, student at University of Illinois at Chicago, said "College tuition is rising. Next year it is expected to go up twenty percent and it is impossible for us to help our parents and also pay for books if we are not insured jobs?" Cordaro Johnson, 21 , student at Chicago State University, said "Everyone, no matter what their age is, should be given an opportunity to work. Many jobs require energetic, hard working individuals and often times; those qualities are within many young people. Many young people are eager to work, and the opportunity shouldn’t be taken away but ameliorated for those that qualify."Rep. Rush commended youth job advocates across the country and the New York State Department of Labor for their diligence and assistance in working with him to address the issue of youth unemployment.}
03.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) joined President Barack Obama, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and his many colleagues in Congress at the White House in the historic signing of health care reform legislation into law. Having fought for a number of provisions that were included in the bill, the legislator commended the President, Congress and his colleagues for taking a "giant step forward." "Today history has been made and no longer will Americans suffer because of a lack of access to quality health care," Rep. Rush said. "We have taken a giant step forward in righting the wrongs in the U.S. health care system. Right now nearly 1 in 5 African Americans are without health insurance. Also, African Americans in general spend a higher percentage of their income on health care costs compared to their white counterparts (16.5% vs. 12.2%). However, despite spending a larger share of their income on medical care, African Americans face continuing health care disparities. Because of the creative leadership of President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, we moved in the right direction toward eliminating disparities that minorities currently face both in their health and in their health care." Rep. Rush also noted several of his provisions he fought for have now become law including: funding for research and treatment of post partum depression, legislation he championed in the Melanie Blocker Stokes post partum depression act; the Collaborative Care Network Demonstration Project; the School Grants for Healthcare Curricula; funding for building trauma centers in urban areas with high incidence of violence; increased clinical research trials for minorities and subpopulations; and other important reforms for the Medicaid 340B program for outpatient care. "For too long, Washington has talked about fixing our broken health care system, only to allow the same old partisan politics and special interest lobbying to block change," Rep. Rush said. "But this isn't a Democratic issue or a Republican one – it's a moral imperative. No one in a country as great as ours should have to worry about getting health care or worry about going broke just because they got sick."
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-Illinois) voted yes to change the United States health care system so millions of Americans will no longer go without basic health care coverage. The legislator's vote came after days of deliberation with House colleagues on whether or not the bill goes far enough to protect the interests of working-class families, seniors and the poor. Rep. Rush reluctantly voted yes after raising concerns that the 340B prescription drug discount provision for inpatient care that was passed by the Senate was being eliminated in the House reconciliation bill. The 340B provision was estimated to save taxpayers $1.7 billion over ten years, while eliminating it will actually cost $2.5 billion over the same period. "I fought hard to have this provision included in health care reform including speaking to the President, the Speaker, the House Majority Leader and the Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and I'm disappointed that nearly 800 safety net hospitals across this nation will never see this benefit included in health care reform. Nevertheless, I am compelled to vote for these bills because a fourth of a loaf of bread is better than no bread at all," he said. The congressman also noted that while the 340B prescription drug discount provision for inpatient care was removed from the Senate bill several of his other proposals survived the process including: funding for research and treatment of post partum depression; the Collaborative Care Network Demonstration Project; the School Grants for Healthcare Curricula; funding for building trauma centers in urban areas with high incidence of violence; increased clinical research trials for minorities and subpopulations; and other important reforms for the Medicaid 340B program for outpatient care. "There is an overwhelming outcry from my constituents for Congress to "do something" about the state of health care in this country—and today we did," Rep. Rush explained. "Far too many of my constituents are either uninsured or often find themselves having to decide whether to put food on the table or to purchase medicine. "Tonight, I voted to improve the quality of life for millions of American families," Rep. Rush said. "I have long believed that the only requirement for someone to receive health care is that they be ill. This plan will give people I serve in Illinois more consumer protection; and insurance companies will now be prohibited from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. While this legislation is not perfect, it is a long way from where we have been." ###
03.19.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection testified before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts and Competition Policy in a hearing to examine state-based regulation of alcoholic beverages. The hearing was convened to explore allegations of discrimination against out-of-state producers of alcohol in order to protect in-house state businesses, resulting in fewer choices and higher prices for consumers. The lawmaker used the hearing to question the direction the industry is headed relative to deregulation and its impact on minority ownership at the wholesale/distributor level. He expressed his opposition to any effort to undermine a state's ability to regulate the alcohol sales. "Deregulation or the removal of state regulatory authority of the alcohol industry would have an adverse, negative impact on minority ownership,” Chairman Rush said. "I would clearly be in opposition to such a move.” The hearing was held in response to a 2005 Supreme Court decision, Granholm v. Heald, which struck down or challenged some state regulations of alcohol as violating the Constitution's Commerce Clause. Opponents claim the regulations are protected by the Twenty-First Amendment, which gives states wide latitude to enact legislation regulating the importation and sale of alcoholic beverages. They also argue these regulations are necessary to promote temperance, drinking age laws and proper tax collection. Since the Granholm decision there have been at least 20 lawsuits challenging state regulations on these grounds. Participants in today's hearing included Texas Solicitor General James Ho, Michigan Liquor Control Commission Nida Samona, Brooklyn Brewery President and Chairman Steve Hindy, Public Action Management President and Chief Executive Officer Pam Erickson and University of Houston Law Center Professor Darren Bush. Participating lawmakers included Rep. George Radanovich (CA-19th), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9th), and Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-1st). Chairman Rush said the purpose of the hearing was two-fold: To examine whether the intent of Congress with the passage of select laws relating to state alcohol regulation and the Twenty-First Amendment has been thwarted by recent legal developments, and whether competition laws should apply to the alcoholic beverage industry or whether the nature of the produce makes that industry a special case that should be afforded protection from antitrust laws. "This system in Illinois is currently under attack in federal court as a result of a decision last week by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission to deny a wholesaler license to an alcohol manufacturer who was seeking to acquire 100 percent ownership of a Chicago alcohol beverage distributorship,” Rush said. "While alcohol laws vary by state, Illinois' law is viewed as one of the strongest in the nation as it relates to the three-tier system of alcohol distribution. Many observers belief this case and others like it will have a profound impact on the regulation of the industry in Illinois and beyond.” The legislator added, "My objective is not to protect wholesalers or hurt producers, but rather to protect the people of my community who are, in many cases, disproportionately overwhelmed with marketing and promotional advertising designed to get them to drink.” In 2008, retail sales of alcoholic beverages totaled approximately $168 billion. All 50 states and the District of Columbia have some sort of alcohol regulation in place. Most alcoholic beverages sold in the U.S. move through a three-tiered system of distribution in which manufacturers are only allowed to sell to licensed wholesalers, who are in turn only allowed to sell to licensed retailers. The number of alcoholic beverage wholesalers has decreased over time, from 10,900 in 1963 to 300 in 2001. For the full text of today's hearing please visit www.house.gov/rush. ###
03.18.2010	Good Morning. The Subcommittee is holding today’s hearing on two introduced bills that will protect scores of consumers from highly dangerous and lethal carbon monoxide and formaldehyde emissions. The first bill we will take up, H.R. 1796, the "Residential Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act", was introduced by Mr. Matheson of Utah. The Consumer Product Safety Commission reports that carbon monoxide poisoning is the leading cause of poisoning death in the US. Carbon monoxide poisoning claims the lives of over 400 people each year, hospitalizes another 4,000 individuals, and causes 20,000 to seek emergency medical treatment. H.R. 1796 would amend the Consumer Product Safety Act to require that residential carbon monoxide detectors meet current voluntary safety standards. Warning labels would have to be placed on portable generators advising consumers that they should not be used inside residential and dwelling units. AND, H.R. 1796 would authorize the Consumer Product Safety Commission to establish a grant program to assist the States in training fire code enforcement officials and educating the public about carbon monoxide risks and the proper use of carbon monoxide detectors. Through these simple actions, H.R. 1796 will enable consumers to better protect themselves against carbon monoxide exposure and poisonings. I commend Mr. Matheson for his tireless work to prevent these outcomes, many of which are avoidable. And, I look forward to hearing from our first panel of witnesses and the discussion that follows about the merits of H.R. 1796. The second bill before us is H.R. 4805, the Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products Act. This legislation would achieve two very important goals: protecting American consumers and American jobs. H.R. 4805 would amend the Toxic Substances Control Act by establishing a federal standard, based on requirements already set by the State of California, to limit the amount of formaldehyde that can be emitted from composite wood products. Because this standard would apply nationally, the legislation would result in greater protections for all Americans. It would also ensure that we do not have a repeat of the disaster with FEMA trailers that were used for emergency housing following HURRICANE KATRINA – which made thousands sick, UNNECESSARILY – and it would make all consumers safer. Ms. Matsui's proposed legislation would level the playing field for American manufacturers. Currently, importers do not have to meet these standards, except to the extent that they conduct business in California. As a result, badly needed manufacturing and other jobs are going overseas, and American consumers are less safe.I applaud Ms. Matsui for championing this legislation and ensuring that we are doing everything we can for both consumers and businesses.With that I yield back the balance of my time.
03.18.2010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Coble, my colleagues on the Subcommittee on the Courts and Competition Policy. Thank you for granting me the opportunity to testify today on state alcohol regulation. I want to also acknowledge my colleagues who are participating on this first panel with me. Mr. Chairman, as I considered coming before this Subcommittee to testify, I certainly came to recognize that this is not a matter that has been at the forefront of issues that I am normally associated with in the Congress. However, as I began to examine this matter with greater scrutiny, I quickly discovered that there existed many underlying causes that are or could be greatly impacted by the undertaking of this subcommittee as it seeks to examine state-based regulation of alcoholic beverages. This Subcommittee's decision to review this matter in light of the 2005 Granholm Supreme Court case is both wise and necessary. Mr. Chairman, in Illinois, we have a three-tier system of distribution, in which, as you are aware, manufacturers or producers sell to licensed wholesalers or distributors, who in turn sell to licensed retailers such as bars, packaged-good stores, and restaurants. This system in Illinois is currently under attack in federal court as a result of a decision last week by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission to deny a wholesaler license to an alcohol manufacturer, who was seeking to acquire 100% ownership of a Chicago alcohol beverage distributorship. While alcohol laws vary by state, Illinois' law is viewed as one of the strongest in the nation as it relates to the three-tier system of alcohol distribution. Many observers believe this case and others like it will have a profound impact on the regulation of the industry in Illinois and beyond. While regulation and/or deregulation may be viewed by many through the lenses of what is in the best "competitive interests" of industry, I submit that there are broader aspects of this issue to consider as well. Prior to my election to Congress in 1992, I served for ten years as a member of the Chicago City Council. As a local alderman, I came to appreciate the value of local control of the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverage. Indeed, an effective tool of local neighborhoods in Chicago has been the ability to vote, through ballot referendum, an area "dry". Communities plagued by "bad actors" in the alcohol industry at the retail level, have the ability absent local liquor control action, to seek legal remedies as a result of the ability of states to regulate the industry. My objective is not to protect wholesalers or hurt producers, but rather to protect the people of my community who are, in many cases, disproportionately overwhelmed with marketing and promotional advertising designed to get them to drink. Additionally, I would express a concern about the direction the industry is going relative to deregulation and its impact on minority ownership at the wholesaler/distributor level. Certainly, there is strong belief in Illinois and I suspect this would be the case elsewhere in our nation, that deregulation or the removal of state regulatory authority of the alcohol industry would have an adverse, negative impact on minority ownership. I would clearly be in opposition to such a move. I believe while there may be some imperfections with the levels of regulation state by state, there is significant value to having an aggressive not passive state role in the regulation of the alcohol industry. The 21st Amendment, which provides states the authority to regulate alcohol within their own borders, has been operating since the 1930's and I believe should Congress decide to act, it should be to more fully clarify its intent that states be allowed to regulate alcohol sales within their borders. With that, I thank you for allowing me to share my thoughts on this issue and yield my time.
03.17.2010	CHICAGO --Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) applauded the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE ®) for agreeing to extend the hours its free, innovative counseling services to district entrepreneurs and small business owners. Under the extension, weekly, one-hour advisory sessions will be available to clients seeking to grow or enhance their businesses.The program is part of Rep. Rush's three-prong effort to encourage district wide economic development, job creation and economic opportunity to offset the impact of the nation's economic woes. His congressional office is the only location from the Illinois delegation to offer SCORE/Chicago's services directly to district constituents. The extended hours begin in April."Small business is the backbone of our economy," Rep. Rush said. "This program will not only get more people into business but also help entrepreneurs in the district to create jobs and help put people back to work. SCORE/Chicago and the Small Business Administration have agreed to this unique collaboration. It is important for business owners to take advantage of the wealth of expertise this program offers."Counseling services will be conducted on Wednesdays in Rush's Chicago office at 700-706 E. 79th Street, and on Thursdays in the Midlothian location at 335 W. 147th Street. Clients can make an appointment by calling SCORE/Chicago at (312) 353-7724 or by visiting www.scorechicago.org.SCORE/Chicago is a nonprofit association dedicated to entrepreneur education and the formation, growth and success of small businesses .The Chicago Chapter of SCORE provides counseling, workshops and other resources to entrepreneurs and small business through 25 locations in Cook and Lake Counties. # # #
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection will now come to order. The focus of today's hearing is the "The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Oversight: The Road Ahead." "The goal of today's hearing is to assess NHTSA's functionality and its effectiveness. Last month, I promised America's motorists, passengers, and pedestrians that as this Subcommittee takes up its jurisdictional responsibility to reauthorize NHTSA, we would do so with a spirit of working to help NHTSA regain the public's confidence."This is our first occasion to welcome NHTSA's newest Administrator, Mr. David Strickland, into our midst. "Although Administrator Strickland's first few months at NHTSA's helm have been rocky and filled with difficult challenges, I know him to be a highly intelligent, thoughtful and capable professional. I expect that he will "shoot straight" with us, today, as we begin the important work of crafting reauthorization legislation that the Members of this Subcommittee can quickly support and move through the Committee and, indeed, through Congress. "I look forward to listening to both witness panels and hearing their views on what NHTSA is currently doing—through its crash data analysis, research, and rulemakings—to promote vehicle safety. "Although I am, typically, not very stringent about enforcing time restrictions on Member statements and questioning, I will not hesitate to drop the gavel, today, to keep us ‘on point' as much as possible. We have a lot of ground to cover and I expect a number of Members will want to participate. I would ask my colleagues for their understanding and cooperation. "Before I yield my time, I'd like to say a few words about the scope of today's hearing. "This is not a hearing about Toyota's recalls or its practices. Please try to restrain yourselves from veering too far away from our purpose of examining NHTSA's configuration, its organization, and its performance in the areas of defects investigation, safety standards and enforcement. "I want to thank all of our witnesses for taking the time out of their busy schedules to advise the Members of this Subcommittee. Let us work collaboratively and constructively to ensure that NHTSA has on hand the necessary resources and capacity to fulfill its stated mission. "That mission, of course, is focused on saving lives, preventing injuries, and reducing economic costs, due to vehicle traffic crashes through education, research, safety standards and enforcement activity. "Thank you, again. And, with that, I yield the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: Here's a link to the full committee hearing webcast, supporting statements and reports as posted on the Energy and Commerce Committee website:https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1922:nhtsa-oversight-the-road-ahead&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON -- In the midst of a slow but steady reversal of fortune in the nation's strengthening labor market, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-01) applauded today's action by President Barack Obama to launch a comprehensive strategy to promote American exports. Through a presidential executive order signed this morning, the President created the National Export Initiative (NEI), an ambitious, intergovernmental initiative to put the full weight and resources of the federal government behind a coordinated effort to identify export trade opportunities for American businesses. "I am very pleased that the President has used the power he has to jump start an effort that I believe will go a long way toward helping to connect the talent and ingenuity of entrepreneurs and small businesses with the growing, global opportunities for our goods and services to serve expanded and developing markets," said Rush who has made a concerted effort as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection to work with domestic and international trade associations to expand trade and job opportunities between the U.S. and Africa, Cuba, Latin America and other parts of the world. "Last year, I held a hearing where I said that today's economic environment demands a 'bolder effort' to increase our exports and global competitiveness. I commend the President for making what appears to be a bold step to expand our nation's exports while, at the same time, creating more jobs here at home." On March 17, 2009, Chairman Rush held a hearing that, in part, focused on the impact of government-sponsored export promotion programs and the effectiveness of assistance available to help U. S. businesses expand their markets for U.S. products and services in diverse, international markets. During the hearing, Rush pointed out that, over the years, Congress had addressed concerns about several important aspects of export promotions, specifically as it related to inter-agency coordination, common goals, small business assistance and enforcement of trade agreements. Rush also noted that as a result of neglect by the previous Administration, despite America's position as the world's largest manufacturing country, the U.S. had the smallest percentage of its Gross Domestic Product derived from exports in comparison to any other G-7 country. During that hearing, Rush noted that, "U.S. export promotion spending lags behind that of Spain, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Korea, Canada and Japan." Rush believes that the Administration's commitment to identifying increased trade opportunities must be matched with an equal commitment to help strengthen and support innovative small businesses. He will soon introduce comprehensive legislation aimed at strengthening small businesses' ability to operate successfully within the public and private sectors. Highlights of some of the key provisions of the President's Executive Order include: the creation of an Export Promotion Cabinet made up of the Departments of State, Treasury, Commerce, Agriculture, Labor, and other federal agencies responsible for exports; the re-establishment of the President's Export Council, the principal private sector advisory committee on international trade; the State Department's creation of a Senior Visitors Business Liaison in all of America's embassies to proactively look for export opportunities and provide advice to American companies; and the creation of what the Obama Administration calls "one-stop-shops" that provide a comprehensive toolkit of services—from financing to counseling to promotion—to help potential exporters grow and expand. # # #
03.04.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Despite some of the merits of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, I could not, in good conscience, vote for this bill today because its provisions fail to do the heavy lifting to provide a hand up for chronically unemployed Americans. "The people I serve in my district are hardworking and ready to work. The hand that's extended in this legislation, for the most part, takes the form of tax cuts for businesses that ought to be doing the right thing in the first place. How many tax cuts do they need before they'll hire? "At a time when the African American community's unemployment rate hovers in the range of 17 percent, I cannot go back to them, look them in the eye and tell them ‘I got big business a tax cut today' and simply walk away in the hopes that they'll be hired. The fact is their prospects of benefitting from those who received these tax breaks, today, are dim. "What I will do in the coming days is to propose legislation that seeks to expand our nation's economic engine where it matters most—within the ranks of our innovative, small and minority-owned businesses. I believe strongly that if we shore up small businesses, especially now at a time when green jobs and continued changes in technology and e-commerce continue to spark new innovations, a new, aggressive crop of visionary entrepreneurs will take root in local communities. They'll look at the faces of the hard working men, women and young adults that I know and see them as part of America's promise for the future. That's a view that far too many distant, Wall Street businesses simply don't understand."
03.04.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. I'd like to welcome all of you here, this morning, to participate in today's hearing on the Toxic Substances Control Act and specific efforts that have been, or need to be, taken to protect public health, and the environment, from a diverse array of toxic substances. "Our focus, today, is on a special group of chemicals--known as PBTs--that pose unique risks to human health and environmental safety. Even at very low exposure and concentration levels in our communities, homes, workplaces and the environment, PBTs have been linked to adverse health effects in humans and animals. "Some of these effects include cancers, genetic mutations, and the disruption of normal biological, neurological and hormonal functions. "Examples of commonly known PBTs include unwanted wastes like mercury and dioxins. The list includes pesticides (like DDT and HCB). DDT [dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane], of course, is a well-known synthetic pesticide. Also included in this list of potential toxins is HCB, or hexachlorobenzene, and other industrial chemicals, such as PCBs [polychlorinated biphenyls] and heavy metals, like cadmium, mercury and lead. "The way I understand PBTs is to think of them in the following way."Generally speaking, the P, or persistence, relates to environmental safety. Persistent pollutants, or toxins, are not bio-degradable. That means that these chemicals do not break down easily in the environment. You can think of them in the way you think of unwelcome house guests, who don't know when it's time to leave. "The B, which stands for Bioaccumulative, or bioaccumulation, relates to human health and to the environment. Following their release into the environment, some of these substances concentrate in rising proportions in soils, sediments, water and air. Over time, these concentration levels rise continually within, and to the top of, the human food chain. "And, the T, which stands for toxic or toxins, relates to human health. Toxic substances lead to adverse health effects, such as the ones I described earlier."What is also important to remember is that these are not mutually exclusive categories. While it can be presumed that a chemical substance which displays all three characteristics is especially harmful, a chemical substance or, mixture, can display just one of the three characteristics--that is, it can be persistent, bio-accumulative, or toxic to human health. "These substances are capable of traveling great distances, on air, and in oceanic currents. "Last year, I had the honor of receiving a delegation of indigenous peoples from the Savoonga and Gambell nations. These representatives were from two member tribes of the National Congress of American Indians. "They told my staff of serious public health issues they are experiencing as a result of pollutants, particularly legacy chemicals, such as PBDEs [polybromodiphenyl ethers] and PFCs [perflourinated compounds], that have blown and crested onto St. John's Island. "At our last hearing on TSCA in November, 2009, we discussed the need for including a prioritization scheme in our soon-to-be-introduced bill, which will make critical reforms to the existing, 33-year-old statute. Under this scheme, the Environmental Protection Agency's chemical risk and safety assessment responsibilities would be radically streamlined. "With this new authority, the EPA would be able to take much swifter action to reduce the volume of especially threatening substances that are already in the commercial stream, in our bodies, and in our food and water sources. "I am pleased to welcome all six of our witnesses to this subcommittee hearing. The common thread through all of their testimonies is, obviously, PBTs. Today, each of them will talk about the PBT problem and how to go about addressing it from their perspectives as government regulators, policy makers, public interest and health advocates and the industry. "Each of these witnesses is prepared to testify and answer questions about PBT regulation and remediation by assessing the regulatory lay of the land—meaning at the State and Federal levels and, of course,the impact of these chemicals on our planet. After all, we've only got one planet and I, for one, would like it to be around for a long, long, l-o-n-g time! "With that, I yield back the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: For a complete list of all statements presented at today's hearing, as well as an audio recording of all proceedings, please click on this link to the House Energy and Commerce Committee website: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1915:tsca-and-persistent-bioaccumulative-and-toxic-chemicals-examining-domestic-and-international-actions&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
03.03.2010	Today Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) made the following remarks about reports that Chicago Mayor Richard Daley will appoint Cheryl Hyman as the next chancellor of the City Colleges of Chicago: "I commend Mayor Daley on his bold selection of Cheryl Hyman as the next chancellor of the City Colleges of Chicago. He has made a wise decision for not only the City but for thousands of people who dare to dream," Rush said. "Cheryl is an outstanding leader and she will bring the sort of leadership to the City Colleges that it deserves. Her life is a remarkable success story having grown up poor in public housing on the West Side of Chicago, to dropping out of high school to witnessing community violence to eventually developing a purpose, where she not only obtained a college education but obtained master's degree while simultaneously working long hours and serving all aspects of her community. She is the best and the brightest of what this city has to offer. Cheryl has always believed there can be no substitute for hard work and integrity. And today, that hard work has paid off by affording her this tremendous opportunity and responsibility to serve others. I look forward to seeing her vision unfold for the City Colleges of Chicago."
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning. Today we are pleased to welcome six witnesses representing the wireless industry, start-up software firms, a non-profit privacy advocacy group, and an academic with expertise in the realm of privacy. At this joint hearing, which is the fifth in our series of hearings on the general topic of consumer privacy, we are focusing on the collection and use of location information about individual consumers. "Location-based applications and services are springing up each day like wild fire. Yesterday, there was Facebook, and in the not-too-distant future we will be encountering something more akin to a 'Placebook.' "Location-based services and the applications that ride on these services utilize a number of different tracking technologies, which make it easy to track the whereabouts of an estimated 100 million individuals around the world. By the year 2013, it is estimated that the precise whereabouts of over 800 million individuals will be readily discernible at any given moment in time. Of that amount, nearly 180 million of those users will be North Americans. "Virtually all location-based services are currently offered to subscribers for free and are subsidized by advertisers. A majority of these services generate, emit, or connect terrestrial and satellite wireless signals. They connect independently or at pre-mapped points on a network. These signals can, then, hone in on and find a user's wireless handheld or roadway device, such as a cell phone or GPS unit. "And, because these devices are typically always on our bodies or within arm's reach, there is very little guesswork for inquiring advertisers and other curious subscribers to know, or deduce, where an individual was located, is located, or what their daily movements are likely to be. In fact, advertisers even know the identity of that individual. "We took up the growing trend of behavioral advertising and how it intersects with privacy considerations at a prior joint hearing, which our two subcommittees held in June, 2009. To some extent, location-based services can be viewed as a sub-category of behavioral tracking in that they can quickly, and cheaply, tell advertisers more than contextual advertising ever could about someone's preferences, habits, and patterns."Location-based services are, in actuality, inherently more invasive and threatening to consumer welfare, and perhaps even more challenging to consumer privacy than behavioral advertising. Tracking a user's movements through a virtual world of business-to-consumer websites is bad enough. Location based services, on the other hand, up the ante by making an individual's real world location data accessible to intended and unintended recipients. "In closing, let me state clearly, for the record, and especially for those interested consumer groups, industries, and government regulators who have been monitoring our series of hearings that, with the information we'll obtain from today's hearing, we have now learned enough to take the next major step. "As one of the two co-chairs of our joint undertakings, along with Congressman Boucher, on privacy, it is my intent that our next hearing on privacy will be a legislative hearing, where we will discuss the "devil in the details" by commenting on a discussion draft of a comprehensive privacy bill. "In coming days, I and my staff will be working closely with Mr. Boucher, Mr. Radanovich, Mr. Stearns and the minority staff to produce that draft. "I would like to thank each of our witnesses for appearing, here, today. I look forward to hearing your testimony and to vigorously engaging in our discussion today. Thank you." # # # NOTE: Here's a link to the Energy and Commerce website for complete information on this hearing including the testimony of participating witnesses: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1906:the-collection-and-use-of-location-information-for-commercial-purposes&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
02.23.2010	WASHINGTON –– "Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I seek unanimous consent to be recognized for the purposes of delivering an opening statement and participating in today's hearing. "Currently there are more than 205 million licensed motorists in the United States. As our families and work force become increasingly mobile, our society has, likewise, become more dependent on the so-called "smartness," energy efficiency, and safety of our automobiles. Understanding this reality all too well, automakers—especially manufacturers of the high quality that Toyota has historically represented—basically brag, in all sorts of slick advertising, that their vehicle is the biggest, baddest and, indeed, the safest car on the road. "So what happened to Toyota? "Hear me when I say that I am profoundly disturbed by the findings of our Committee staff. "My concerns go beyond Toyota's safety practices and recall decisions. They extend to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's apparent sluggishness in re-inventing itself. It appears as if NHTSA failed to assign an appropriate mixture of staff and resources to keep up with evolving changes in auto design technology, especially with respect to increased computerization. "I am adamant about getting to the bottom of the causes for sudden, unintended acceleration in Toyota's fleet of passenger vehicles. As Chairman of the Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection Subcommittee, I will be conducting a separate hearing, in March, to look further into NHTSA's resources, staffing, and management philosophies as part of that agency's reauthorization. "My sympathies and condolences go out to those families who have lost loved ones and, certainly, those consumers who have sustained grave injuries in crashes and accidents involving faulty Toyota and Lexus automobiles. I also extend these sentiments to any automobile driver on the highways, streets, and byways of our nation who had the misfortune of encountering one of these faulty vehicles. "The fact is that when these motorists and passengers took the simple, routine step of getting into their cars, they had no idea that their trusted vehicles had the potential to become, literal, ‘killing machines.' This is beyond unacceptable. "I, along with millions of Americans, will be paying close attention to the answers given here, today, as well as to your testimony before other congressional committees, today, and in the future. "Quite frankly, if some of the alleged behavior and failure to act that I've read in the media turns out to be true, then Toyota is, perhaps, looking at an inquiry by the Justice Department. "I promise all motorists, passengers, and pedestrians that my Subcommittee will do everything in its power to restore confidence in NHTSA. I will also work to ensure that affected Toyota and Lexus owners have full and immediate recourse to whatever equipment they need to remedy these safety defects. My hope is that consumers will, once again, have peace of mind when they turn on their vehicles and, yes, when they apply their brakes. "Thank you Mr. Chairman and Subcommittee Members for consenting to my procedural request to participate in this important hearing. With that, I yield back the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: Here's a link to the Energy and Commerce Committee website that includes copies of all hearing testimony as well as links to video streams of all panelists:
02.17.2010	CHICAGO -- U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush released the following statement, today, in recognition of the one-year anniversary of the implementation of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The landmark legislation that Rush supported is widely recognized by economists and nonpartisan budget monitors for staving off the advent of a second great depression. Over the course of its one-year implementation, ARRA created more than two million jobs in what continues to be a tough economic climate."Where I come from, there's an adage that says ‘when the going get tough, the tough get going.' I am proud to say that when a tough vote was needed—a vote that strengthened our nation's banking structure despite the reckless behavior Wall Street financiers engaged in that put our nation's economy on the edge of collapse—my colleagues and I in the U. S. House and Senate did what we had to do to pull our national economy back from the brink. And we did it without one, single vote from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. "Today, I'm proud to acknowledge the tremendous work by President Obama and Vice President Biden who have effectively implemented the distribution of ARRA funds in a manner that is without equal in its accountability and transparency. That transparency allows me to point to the fact that of the $7 billion that was awarded to the State of Illinois, more than $253 million has already been allocated in the 1st Congressional district. That's real money, going to hard working men and women, in this community, for whom these dollars mean that their lives will remain as secure as possible given the difficult economy we continue to face. "While I am proud of the progress that we can point to today, for me, it's never enough when I consider the fact that in the African American community our unemployment numbers are upwards of 17 percent. That's unacceptable to me and, I believe, to our leadership in the White House. "As co-chair of the 131-member, bipartisan Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus, I want my constituents to know that I will remain vigilant and relentless in my pursuit of every viable means to ensure that those who want to work can do so and that our precious, federal resources continue to be used wisely, and fairly, to help every man, woman and young adult to be able to take care of themselves and their families." # # # NOTE: For more information on ARRA's impact in Illinois and in the 1st Congressional District, please click on this link to the Recovery.gov website: https://www.recovery.gov/Transparency/RecipientReportedData/Pages/statesummary.aspx?StateCode=IL
02.08.2010	CHICAGO - Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) released the following statement upon learning of the death of 77-year-old Congressman John P. Murtha (D-PA12): "John was a great colleague and an even greater friend. On behalf of my wife Carolyn and the citizens of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois I extend sincere condolences to his family and constituents. The United States Congress, as an institution, has suffered a huge lost. Congressman Murtha was an outstanding American who served his country well. May God comfort his family and grant him eternal peace," Rush said.
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –– "Thank you, Chairman Boucher for convening today's hearing to consider Comcast Corporation's proposed joint venture with the General Electric Company, the corporate parent of NBC Universal. "The parties have argued in recent filings with the Federal Communications Commission (and, presumably, with the Department of Justice in forthcoming Hart-Scott-Rodino filings), that their union is a classic model of vertical integration, which advances key Congressional policy goals of diversity, localism, innovation and competition. "To underscore their claims, Comcast and NBC have made a number of voluntary commitments. According to the parties, they say that their commitments will expand consumer choice, ensure over-the-air broadcasting, enhance programming opportunities, ensure competition on multiple content delivery platforms, and maintain NBC's journalistic independence as a provider of news. "Unfortunately, what they have not said, what they have not committed to, and what is not making news is how this deal will promote meaningful opportunities for minorities to become FCC licensees and owners of communications and programming assets. How will minority viewers, existing minority licensees, and programmers be affected by this combination? How will minority suppliers and advertisers be integrated into the joint venture's procurement and purchasing channels? And, what will these two Fortune 100 companies do to ensure greater diversity in hiring and retention of minority employees at the management and non-management levels of the proposed joint venture? "These are the types of integration and commitment to diversity to which I would hope that Comcast and GE would pay more attention and make further commitments. "Although the potential rewards for the public are significant, the collective risks to minority inclusion and diversity, as this transaction is currently structured, are just as important. As we continue to discuss the merits and effects of this proposed combination in coming months, you can be assured that these will be my key areas of focus. "I look forward to hearing the testimony and perspectives of our witnesses. Welcome to all of you. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman––my good friend from the Commonwealth of Virginia. With that, I yield back the balance of my time." # # # NOTE: Congressman Rush's opening statement and his subsequent questions to the panel may be viewed, in its entirety, at the archived hearing webcast available on the Committee on Energy and Commerce website: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1888:an-examination-of-the-proposed-combination-of-comcast-and-nbc-universal&catid=134:subcommittee-on-communications-technology-and-the-internet&Itemid=74 The link to the video stream is here: https://energycommerce.edgeboss.net/wmedia/energycommerce/2010.02.04.cti.wvx}
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –– "In early July 2009, horrific allegations and disturbing media images shocked the nation as news about the unauthorized removal of hundreds of human bodies, and the reselling of grave plots, at Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, Illinois came to light. As Chair of this Subcommittee, and the U.S. Representative of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, I wasted no time in convening a field hearing, in Chicago, on July 27, 2009. "My primary purpose in holding the field hearing was to hear bereaved survivors share their feelings of intense loss and bewilderment upon learning of what happened at Burr Oak. I also wanted to learn more about their past dealings with Burr Oak staff and the "red flags" of gross neglect they had witnessed at the cemetery. "Upon returning to Washington, any suspicions that Burr Oak was an aberration or a mere figment of society's imagination quickly diminished. A little more than a month following our scheduled Chicago field hearing took place, fresh allegations of unlawful grave desecrations and the resale of grave plots at Eden Memorial Park, a Jewish cemetery in Mission Hills, CA, and the Mellwood Cemetery in DeKalb County Georgia, also came to light. "Death ushers in a period of deep sorrow, grief, and loss for stunned survivors and the loved ones responsible for finalizing funeral arrangements and services. These very consumers then become easy selling targets for bundles of unnecessary goods and services that get slipped into funeral and burial packages. Consumers also fall prey to a host of misrepresentations, by managers and sales staffs, that range from bogus claims about what state laws actually require to patently false interpretations of their own written regulations. "Deceiving bereaved consumers equals quick cash for unprincipled owners and managers of cemeteries and crematoria. Why? Because it is just too easy to prey on misinformed consumers. Lacking experience with the funeral and burial sectors, these consumers cannot be reasonably expected to effectively negotiate fair prices, choices, and contractual terms that apply to burial goods, contracts and leases for land on graveyard property. "Planning for one's own, or even a loved one's death, is typically a "once-in-a-lifetime" experience. It is often compounded by unpredictability. But just because death all too often comes like a thief in the night, bereaved consumers should not be left wondering who, in fact, was the real thief…death or the cemetery salesperson? "On September 25, 2009, I introduced the "Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights." Today, my Subcommittee is reviewing this draft bill at its first hearing of the new legislative session. To help us consider the measure, I am grateful to the accomplished panel of witnesses who have prepared testimony and saw fit to be here, today, to comment upon the merits and drawbacks of this important bill. "Among H.R. 3655's provisions, the bill would require the FTC to require ALL funeral goods and services providers, and not just "for profit" funeral homes, to do the following: provide consumers with accurate, itemized price information for each specific funeral good or service offered for sale; prohibit these providers from misrepresenting what federal, state, and local laws require in protecting consumers; include disclosures in pre-paid contracts regarding fees or penalties to be assessed for cancellation or transfer, by the purchaser, of burial, cremation, or entombment rights to different facilities, and retain records of the date and location of each burial, cremation, and entombment as well as the corresponding rights of disposition (i.e., perpetual or term), and make those records available to federal, state, and local governments. "In drafting this Bill of Rights, I have been earnest in respecting existing states' laws. The bill would authorize both the FTC and the States Attorneys General, and other designated state entities, to enforce its requirements. "What we have tried to accomplish through this bill is to establish a baseline of Federal minimums and standards. We would hope all states would have these minimums on their books, and in their own statutes, as a means to protect bereaved consumers. "With that, it is my hope that we will critically review H.R. 3655, and the existing FTC rules that it would supplant, with the goal of improving the bill's effectiveness and its relevance to modern times. "In closing, I want to thank each of our witnesses for appearing here today. I look forward to hearing your testimony and to listening, and participating, in our discussion today about the Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights. Thank you." # # # NOTE: Click on this link to view a webcast of the entire hearing as hosted on the Energy and Commerce Committee website: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1879:hr-3655-the-bereaved-consumers-bill-of-rights-act-of-2009&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
01.21.2010	Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) attended the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Hearing, chaired by U. S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), where he questioned a representative from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on some of the circumstances surrounding the shocking closure, last fall, of the Park National Bank of Oak Park, Illinois."The excesses of Wall Street are well documented. My concern, though, is that far too often, outside of public scrutiny, some parts of the federal government's financial oversight agencies do not act thoughtfully or in a manner that recognizes the important role that financially sound, community-based banks play within local communities," said Rush who, along with other Chicago elected officials and community leaders, aggressively conveyed their concerns to regulators after Park National Bank (PNB) was closed on October 30, 2009. PNB was closed not because of its financial condition but because it was part of a broader network of financially troubled banks owned by FBOP Corporation. "Park National Bank closed not because of any major failings of its own but, rather, because of discretionary authority that allows the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to close an entire network of commonly owned banks even if some of those banks could have survived if they were independently owned and operated," said Rush. Rush's concerns were prominently featured in a story last year in the Wall Street Journal where the regulatory authority that allowed PNB to be closed was reported on in detail.Today, Rush questioned Jennifer Kelly, Senior Deputy Comptroller for Midsize/ Community Bank Supervision, a unit of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). In part, Rush asked Kelly if the OCC has specific policies that examine the potential impact of bank seizures on low-income and predominately minority, underserved areas especially when the people in those communities have limited access to community banks. Congressman Rush's query of Ms. Kelly can be viewed, in its entirety, by clicking on this link to the archived hearing webcast available on the House Committee on Financial Services website: https://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/FIhr_01212010.shtmlIn addition, here's a link to the Wall Street Journal story, "When Bad Banks Sink Good Ones," where Rush's counsel was sought: https://online.wsj.com/article/SB125720151735123867.html
01.20.2010	WASHINGTON -- "Madam Speaker, I rise in solidarity with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus in support of the people of Haiti. "Last weekend, in my district, I held a citywide interfaith prayer service where we sought God’s grace and mercy for the lives of those who were lost in last week’s earthquake as well as for the survivors, the rescue workers and those who, miraculously, continue to be pulled alive from the rubble. "I strongly support the swift action, last week, by the Obama Administration to grant temporary protected status for Haitian immigrants already living in this country. I urge the Administration to continue to bring the full weight and resources of the federal government in support of a nation whose history intersects with that of the founding of the United States. "Haiti is a nation to whom our nation owes an enormous debt of gratitude. It was the brave people of Haiti who tirelessly fought French aggressors, in the early 1800s, thereby preventing that nation from advancing to the shores of America in the early years after the founding of our republic. "My commitment to Haiti is to do all I can do, in our nation’s capitol and at home in Chicago, to help restore, rebuild and strengthen Haiti. My hope and prayer is that it will emerge stronger than it was before last week’s tragic turn of events." # # #
01.14.2010	CHICAGO -- U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) will convene and host an "All Chicago Unity Observance for the Earthquake Victims in Haiti" on Sunday, January 17 at 4 PM at the DuSable Museum of African-American History, 740 E. 56th Place, in an effort to galvanize support for relief efforts in Port-au-Prince. He will be joined by several prominent government, civic, arts and business leaders, as well as Haitian Counsul General Lesly Conde, Haitian Congress President Lionel Jean Baptiste and ecumenical leaders from Chicago's large Haitian immigrant community.Rep. Rush wants a strong turnout for the event which is free and open to the public. "We must pray for lost lives and for those waiting to be found," he said. "All of America is coming together to respond to our friends in Haiti during this time of crisis. I encourage all of Chicago to join us Sunday evening in our unified effort of prayer and support for our local Haitian American community."Dusable Museum is named for Haitian explorer Jean Baptiste Pointe DuSable, a successful pioneer and entrepreneur who established the first permanent trading post on the Chicago River in 1779. He was officially recognized in 1968 by the State of Illinois for having been the founder of Chicago.ALL CHICAGO UNITY OBSERVANCEFOR EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS IN HAITISunday, January 17, 20104 PMDuSable Museum of African American History,740 E. 56th Place# # #
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) delivered the following statement at a Capitol Hill press conference where the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) released its "Pay-for-Delay: How Drug Company Pay-Offs Cost Consumers Billions" report. Joining Rush were Assistant to the Speaker Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), U. S. Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) and FTC Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz. "Thank you, Chris and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen."My colleagues and I stand here, today, in the shadow of the passage of long overdue health care legislation aimed at improving the lives of millions of Americans. As we do so, we are lifting our voices in an urgent appeal to the leadership in the House, in the Senate and in the White House to do right by the American people by making sure they can afford the cost of life-saving, prescription medications."A provision I've supported for years, that enjoys bipartisan support in the House, would put an end—once and for all—to the so-called "pay for delay" practice."Pay for delay" represents the misguided, profit-driven interests of a bygone era. Over the years, the financial burden it has imposed on low-income and working-class families has become intolerable."I urge those who are working to reconcile the House and Senate health care bills to preserve my amendment, which is outlined in Section 2573 of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. "By doing so, this Congress and this President can declare, once and for all, that the ‘greed is good' mantra of Wall Street has no place in Americans' medicine cabinets."Not only is my provision the right thing to do, but it actually helps reduce the federal deficit. The Congressional Budget Office has scored my amendment and found that it would actually cut the Federal deficit by $1.9 billion over 10 years."If passed into law, this provision would close the profit-center that "pay for delay" has turned into for branded and generic pharmaceutical companies. And, it would serve as an important means for providing affordable health insurance for currently uninsured consumers."Clearly, this provision is a "win win" for taxpayers and a "win win" for uninsured Americans."For these reasons and more, I urge those who are working diligently to deliver comprehensive health care reform for the American people to keep this provision in the final bill."Thank you very much." # # #
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON -- U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) today released the following statement in the aftermath of yesterday's 7.0 earthquake that struck about 10 miles west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, leaving untold numbers of people dead and their homes and infrastructure devastated: "I do not have the words to convey the shock and sadness I feel for a nation so rich in heritage, culture and history. It is evident that yesterday's earthquake has left an epic level of devastation in its wake. My colleagues and I are working with the U.S. State Department to determine how best to mobilize our country's resources in what will be a huge global undertaking to provide recovery and humanitarian support. "In the meantime, I urge Chicago's Haitian American community, my constituents and other concerned citizens to use this number, set up by the State Department, as a means to get information. The State Department Operations Center has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about family members in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. In addition, the American Red Cross has set up emergency relief efforts. Those who are willing and able can make an immediate contribution of $10 for disaster relief efforts by texting “HAITI” to "90999." A $10 dollar donation, charged to your cell phone bill, will immediately be given to the Red Cross to help with relief efforts. "My office is fully engaged in this issue and I am working to ensure the full weight and resources of the federal government are brought to bear in Haiti relief efforts. My fervent prayers and thoughts are with the people of Haiti." # # #
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today released the following statement in the aftermath of yesterday's 7.0 earthquake that struck about 10 miles west of Port-au-Prince leaving untold numbers of people dead and their homes and infrastructure devastated: "I do not have the words to convey the shock and sadness I feel for an island nation that I love so very much. As news reports continue to come in, it is evident that yesterday's earthquake has left an epic level of devastation in its wake. My colleagues and I are working with the U. S. State Department to determine how best to mobilize U. S. resources to make a difference. "In the meantime, I urge Chicago's Haitian American community and others with loved ones on the island to use this number, set up by the State Department, as a means to get information. The State Department Operations Center has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about family members in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. In addition, the American Red Cross has set up emergency relief efforts. Those who are willing and able can make an immediate contribution of $10 for disaster relief efforts by texting "HAITI" to "90999." A $10 dollar donation, charged to your cell phone bill, will immediately be given to the Red Cross to help with relief efforts. "My staff and I are fully engaged in this issue to help ensure that the full weight and resources of the federal government are brought to bear to help the people of Haiti. My fervent prayers are with the people of Haiti." Attached is a link to a list of additional humanitarian and disaster relief agencies that are providing information, assistance and/or resources for the people of Haiti and their families, here, at home.
01.11.2010	CHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today released the following statement on the death, last Friday, of Mrs. Jean Biden, the mother of Vice President Joe Biden. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of Mrs. Jean Biden, the mother of my friend Joe Biden. I remember well the stirring tribute Joe gave in the summer of 2008 at the Democratic National Convention as he accepted his nomination to serve with then, presidential candidate, Barack Obama. Like men and women of good will throughout our nation, I, too, was moved by the words Joe used in describing his mother—especially her strength, her tenacity and her fierce determination to fight for the needs of her children. The legacy of this amazing woman lives on in the work of the Vice President and the important role he plays in helping to extend the full opportunities of the American dream to each and every American, regardless of race, creed or economic circumstance. " "My wife, Carolyn, and I extend our sincere condolences to Joe and Jill Biden, their children and family at this difficult time." # # #
01.11.2010	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) released the following statement upon the news of the death of Wesley South, chairman emeritus of Midway Broadcasting Corporation, the parent company of WVON 1690AM, who died of natural causes peacefully in his home on Saturday, January 9, 2010. He was 95 years old. "Wesley South was a pioneer, a visionary and a broadcasting innovator who understood the need for diverse voices on American radio," said Rep. Rush. "He will be remembered for not only helping to establish WVON as the première talk radio station in Black America, but also as a journalist, philanthropist and a man of good character and strong will. He had a giant's walk---and he leaves very big shoes to fill. Many of us are indebted to Mr. South for his support throughout the years and for his leadership. On behalf of my wife, Carolyn, and the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, Wesley South and his family will remain in our thoughts and prayers."
01.07.2010	CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush released the following statement in response to the economic threat posed by the law suit filed by Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox, before the U. S. Supreme Court, that seeks to re-route the Chicago River to address an environmental threat posed by Asian carp: "I stand in solidarity with my friends and colleagues in the Illinois delegation in expressing my full support for the efforts of Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan to vigorously confront the legal action taken, last month, by the Attorney General of the State of Michigan, Mike Cox, a Republican candidate for Michigan's Governor's office. "With environmental experience that extends from my days on the Chicago City Council to the present, I am well aware of the environmental risks that threaten the Great Lakes and, certainly, the waterways of Lake Michigan. My review of the record leading up to Attorney General Cox' decision to file a lawsuit before the U. S. Supreme Court includes the fact that, as recently as November 2009, the seven-member Council of Great Lakes Governors pointed out in writing, to Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, that the Great Lakes are at risk from the grave threat posed by Asian carp and other harmful, aquatic invasive species. To go from a united front, in November, in appealing to the Obama Administration to work with the states in this region to address the threat posed by Asian carp and other species to a direct appeal, in December, to the U. S. Supreme Court strikes me as a highly questionable act by a state attorney general who, perhaps, is more interested in currying favor with Michigan voters rather than working in an earnest effort to address this problem. "I am firmly committed to doing all I can to support Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Governor Pat Quinn and others to defeat a legal challenge that, if successful, would inflict grave financial damage to our city's and our state's economy. "I want my constituents to know that, in addition to working with our delegation on this issue, I am talking to non-profit environmental organizations in an effort to identify effective, eco-friendly solutions to this problem." A copy of the Illinois delegation letter to Attorney General Madigan is attached.
01.04.2010	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) released the following statement upon the news of the death of Johnson Publishing Company grand matron and philanthropist, Eunice Johnson, who died Sunday. She was in her nineties. "Eunice Johnson was a remarkable woman, a Chicago icon, fashion guru and a champion for higher education for African Americans--and her life will be remembered as such," said Rush. "Mrs. Johnson was a woman of grace, style and elegance and it was because of her high standards that her husband, John H. Johnson, developed Ebony Magazine into the première publication documenting African-American excellence. Through of her Ebony Fashion Fair ventures she raised countless dollars for scholarships for many of our nation's youth enabling them to pursue their dreams. On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District in Illinois, as well as my wife, Carolyn, I offer condolences to the Johnson family."
12.28.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) extended his condolences to the family and friends of pioneering legal scholar and iconic civil rights leader Percy E. Sutton who died, last Saturday, in a nursing home in Manhattan. "So many of the rights and privileges that African Americans and disenfranchised people from every culture enjoy, today, stem from the courageous, pioneering work of Percy Sutton. This brilliant man, the son of an emancipated slave, took the gifts that God gave him and put them to use for the least of these in our nation. Sutton was a man of the people who was arrested several times as a Freedom Rider in Mississippi and Alabama in the 1960s. "He took his passion for civil rights and equality from the streets of Harlem, to the halls of justice as an attorney, to elected office and, ultimately, to the private sector as an accomplished entrepreneur. If Percy Sutton had a hand in it people knew that excellence and integrity would follow. "I extend my sincere condolences to his wife, Leatrice, his children and extended family and to the people of New York City. While we have lost the man, his legacy endures." # # #
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "The second bill, which I am urging adoption of, is H.R. 1319, the Informed P2P User Act ("P2P Act"). H.R. 1319 was originally introduced by the gentle lady from California, Ms. Bono-Mack, Ranking Member Barton, the gentleman from Texas, and Mr. Barrow, the gentleman from Georgia. "H.R. 1319, similar to H.R. 2221, would better enable consumers to secure personal information. The focus under H.R. 1319 is on personal information which resides on "protected computers." By making users of file-sharing software programs more aware of the risks involved in downloading and running these programs, the P2P Act would reduce inadvertent disclosures of sensitive information over the Internet. "Under H.R. 1319, developers of file-sharing software programs would be prohibited from installing their software, or from making it available for installation or downloading, without first notifying consumers that their software is capable of searching and copying files from their computers. Developers would also have to provide consumers with a reasonable means to disable or remove the file sharing program. H.R. 1319 would not require user notice prior to installation for software installed prior to the initial sale of a computer, so long as notice of the installation of a covered program is provided in some other form. "The P2P Act would also provide the FTC with discretionary rulemaking authority and expressly states that it does not apply to the federal government." # # #
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "The first bill, which I am urging adoption of, is H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act ("DATA" Act). "Bill H.R. 2221 addresses data breaches by requiring "for-profit" entities holding data containing people’s personal information to have reasonable and appropriate security measures in place to protect that data. H.R. 2221 would also require them to notify consumers, who are U.S. citizens or residents, and the Federal Trade Commission when a breach occurs. Consider the following: For the past five years, the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse contends that nearly 340 million records "containing sensitive personal information" have been "involved in security breaches." High-profile data breaches have plagued financial institutions, nationwide retailers, online merchants, information brokers, credit card processors, health care institutions, high-tech companies, research facilities and government agencies. Currently, several laws address data security requirements for narrow categories of information or specific sectors of the marketplace. These laws include the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ("GLB Act") Safeguards Rule, which contains data security requirements for financial institutions, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act ("FCRA") Disposal Rule, which imposes safe disposal obligations on entities that maintain consumer report information. In addition, the FTC has used its enforcement authority under the FTC Act to bring actions against companies that have made misleading claims about data security procedures or who failed to employ reasonable security measures in circumstances causing substantial injury. However, there is no comprehensive federal law that requires all companies that hold consumers’ personal information to implement reasonable measures to protect that data. Also, there is no federal law that requires companies that experience a data breach to provide notice to those consumers whose personal information was compromised. Those entities, who determine that there is no reasonable risk of identity theft, fraud, or other unlawful conduct, would be exempt from providing nationwide notice to affected persons under H.R. 2221. The DATA Act establishes a rebuttable presumption in the law that encryption-based technologies and methodologies adequately meet the determination standard in Section 3, subsection (f)(2)(A) of the Bill. More narrow exemptions are provided for a defined category of personal information holders known as "service providers," in addition to information brokers who handle protected data, but only for the limited purposes of preventing fraud. In promulgating the regulations under this subsection, the FTC may determine to be in compliance any person who is required under any other Federal law to maintain standards and safeguards for information security and protection of personal information that provide equal, or greater, protection than H.R. 2221. "And with that, I reserve the balance of my time." # # #
12.03.2009	Good morning. The Subcommittee will now come to order. This hearing is being convened to consider H.R. 3933, the Calling Card Consumer Protection Act of 2009. The pre-paid calling card industry generates more than $4 billion in annual revenues. It is a highly fragmented industry comprised of well-known and lesser known telecommunications companies that own and operate their own public and private networks, resellers of telecommunications services, and marketing firms and distributors who produce, brand, and deliver the cards to retail outlets and stores. I want to thank my friend, Mr. Engel, the gentleman from New York, for re-introducing this bill in the House. It would significantly improve the truthfulness of calling card advertisements and pave new avenues of recourse for millions of defrauded and vulnerable classes of consumers in this country. "There's a sucker born every minute" is reported to have been said by the great businessman and showman, P.T. Barnum. Those words set the theme for today's hearing. Batches of fraudulent calling cards enter the stream of commerce daily. They misrepresent the amount of calling minutes that are supplied on the card and hide applicable fees and charges. At times, the cards may even provide substandard phone connections, ineffective PIN numbers, and non-functional or "always-busy" customer service contact information. H.R. 3993 would remedy many of these problems. It would require calling card providers and distributors to accurately, clearly, and conspicuously disclose all relevant and applicable information on the cards. Such disclosures would include contact information for the card service provider, number of minutes supplied on the card, and dollar value of the card. I would like to greet all of the witnesses who are here with us today. I thank them for taking the time to be here and look forward to hearing their views about H.R. 3993. Allow me to say that I am particularly pleased to greet, Mr. Alie Kabbah, who is a witness today. Mr. Kabbah is the Executive Director of the United African Organization. He has worked devotedly from the organization's Chicago headquarters, on behalf of the more than 100,000 African men, women and children who now make their homes in Illinois. Again, thank you all so much for being here. With that, I yield back the balance of my time.
12.02.2009	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL01) released the following letter to Chicago Police Superintendent Jody Weis regarding the death investigation of 12-year-old Jahmeshia Conner: December 2, 2009Police Superintendent Jody WeisChicago Police Department3510 S. Michigan AvenueChicago, IL 60653 VIA FACSIMILE: 312-745-6963 Dear Supt. Weis: I am disturbed by the murder of 12-year-old Jahmeshia Conner. I am even more disturbed by revelations that her family pleaded with officers not to classify her as a runaway when the initial missing persons report was filed on November 15, yet she ended up being classified in this manner anyway. The family and many others believe that had the Chicago Police Department (CPD) made this child’s disappearance a high priority from the beginning that perhaps her life might have been saved. Therefore, please consider this a formal inquiry into the matters surrounding the investigation of the disappearance of Jahmeshia Conner. Specifically, I want to know why the CPD labeled Jahmeshia as a runaway, giving the impression that her disappearance was voluntary, rather than issuing an AMBER alert which would have effectively rallied the community and media to help locate this child. I also want to know how many AMBER alerts has CPD initiated in the last five years, who the victims were and what the outcomes were in those cases. A city can be measured by many things. Most telling among them is how it protects its children. I look forward to your immediate response to this inquiry. Should you have questions, please do not hesitate to call me. I can be reached in my office at 202-225-4372 or 773-224-6500. Sincerely, ###
12.01.2009	CHICAGO – Tonight at 6 PM, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will join the family of 12-year-old Jahmeshia Conner in a candlelight vigil in an alley at 6429 S. Marshfield where child's body was discarded Monday afternoon. The legislator said he is outraged that Englewood fifth grader, who went missing November 15, was quickly classified by police as a runaway and because there appeared to be no massive outreach effort to locate her. "What happened to Jahmeshia Connor?" Rush asked. "Why did the Chicago Police Department classify this child as a runaway despite the pleas of the family that she did not match that profile? We know this was a bright student who was active in her church and had recently become a cheerleader. She was happy. She had no reason to run away from home. If police had taken this case more seriously might Jahmeshia be alive today? Why wasn't an Amber Alert issued? Had her case received the same amount of publicity that missing children from other communities receive might she be alive today? These are the answers we don't have and these are the answers we want to know." ###
12.01.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush spoke out in solidarity with activists in Chicago, Washington, D.C. and throughout the nation whose clear message is that we, indeed, have a war on terror, right here at home, and its name is HIV/AIDS. "While, today, the nation's attention is rightly focused on those in the military who are putting themselves in harm's way on distant shores, right now, on the streets of Chicago and in far too many unsuspecting households in my community, and others throughout our nation, millions of men, women and young adults are dealing with a war of a different sort. Millions of Americans, from all walks of life, are struggling silently in the midst of their own, personal war on terror in the form of fear, denial or suspicion about their HIV status. "Right now, far too many low-income Americans—especially those in communities of color—do not know their HIV status. Whether it's fear that one's intimate partner is not faithful, the lack of health insurance or the basic lack of community-based health services, there's a war going on throughout this nation and it's sending thousands of people to an early grave. This war has a name and it's HIV/AIDS. "This undeclared public health war is the result of an underfunded, overwhelmed so-called ‘social safety net' left behind by the neglectful reign of the Bush-Cheney Administration. Despite the economic challenges that still confront our nation, I am proud to say that I stood with our President to support the passage of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act, a law that provides life-saving resources in the form of care and treatment services for more than half a million low-income Americans living with this disease. But we can and must do more. "Today, on World AIDS Day, I stand in solidarity with progressive activists here, in Chicago, led by the Rainbow PUSH Coalition, as well as those gathered to mourn those who've died from AIDS who have assembled in our nation's capital. I call for a renewed, national focus to provide funding and federal resources to stop the spread of HIV. "According to the most recent data available from the Chicago Department of Public Health, African Americans are disproportionately affected by HIV. While they represent only 36% of Chicago's population, they account for 55% of recently diagnosed HIV infections. Of the 22,650 people living with HIV/AIDS, 54% are black, 27% are white and 16% are Hispanic. The 2006 HIV infection rate in Chicago's black community is nearly twice the rate of whites—92 out of every 100,000 blacks compared to 48 per 100,000 whites and 31 per 100,000 Hispanics. "It's grim statistics like these that led me to support the goal, by Chicago-based activists and others, to reduce the rate of HIV infection and transmission by three percent, by 2012, in the African American community in Chicago and throughout the nation. "If we, as a nation, can bail out millionaires on Wall Street, surely we can find the resources to make sure that those who suffer in silence, and without resources, can get the help they need. My commitment is to do all I can to ensure that we make our voices and our votes count for something and that includes making a lasting difference by helping to reduce the increase in the incidence of HIV/AIDS." ###
11.25.2009	CHICAGO - Today marks the 22nd anniversary of the death of Mayor Harold L. Washington, who died of a heart attack in 1987 while working in City Hall. U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), joined the Chicago City Council the same year Washington became the city’s first African American mayor and currently serves in the congressional seat once held by the famed legislator. "November 25th will always be a day of sadness for me because this is the day we abruptly lost one of the giants of America politics and Chicago history," Rush said. "Harold Washington was my mentor, my leader and my friend. He was a consummate politician, (who was) able to seemingly incorporate the best of activism with the best of politics. He understood politics as a tool for social good. He was a good person and extremely smart-hard to read at times, but you always knew where Harold stood. If he were alive today he would be using every resource available to him to end the culture of violence impacting the lives young people in our city," Rush continued. "Kids back then knew that Mayor Washington cared about them. He created a city agency called the Crisis Intervention Network where organizers would go into the community and schools to resolve conflict and help settle disputes that could have led to violence. Today there is a political culture in this city that does not foster human kindness or appear to actually care about the well being of one’s neighbor. Everybody felt Harold was ‘their friend’ and because of it people were often willing to set aside their political and cultural differences to work to resolve issues in our city. "I miss my friend and I will continue his legacy of compassionate, bold leadership and being role model for generations that follow." ###
11.23.2009	CHICAGO - On Saturday, November 28, Congressman Bobby Rush will be feted by Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr., and the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition with "Bobby Rush Day" in honor of the congressman's 63rd birthday and his more than 40 years of public service. The 10 AM event will be held at PUSH headquarters at 930 E. 50th Street, and feature tributes and other festive accolades. The event is free and open to the public. "I cannot fully put into words the great pride and joy I feel to be honored by Rev. Jackson," Rush said. "In many respects this tribute brings it all home. I am pleased to have lived a life that is worthy of this special recognition. I am alive today because one day, on Saturday, December 8, 1969, Rev. Jackson gave me sanctuary at Operation PUSH. And, in doing so, he allowed me to turn myself in to the Chicago Police at a time when I had been falsely accused. For that, and many more reasons, I love him and there's nothing he can do about it!" Born on November 23, 1946 in Albany, Georgia, Rush moved to Chicago as a child and lived on the near north and west sides in public housing. He graduated from Marshall High School and at the age of 17, enlisted in the United States Army. He served in the military from 1963 until 1968, receiving an honorable discharge. Following his military service, Rush attended Roosevelt University, where he received a bachelor's degree in general studies, with honors, in 1973. In 1994, he received a master's degree in political science from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Congressman Rush received his second master's degree, in 1998, in theological studies from McCormick Seminary, and, soon thereafter, he became an ordained Baptist minister. During the Civil Rights Movement Rush worked to secure civil and human rights for African Americans, women and other people of color. He was a member of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee and in 1968 and co-founded the Illinois Black Panther Party. As a Black Panther, he helped develop the Panther Party's Free Breakfast for Children program which was later adopted by the federal government. Rush also coordinated the Free Medical Clinic, which developed the nation's first mass sickle cell anemia testing program. In addition, the young activist worked to register voters, advocated against poor housing conditions and police misconduct. On December 4, 1969 Chicago police officers raided the apartment of Panther Fred Hampton and Mark Clark and assassinated them in cold-blood drawing international outcry. A day later and acting upon a questionable arrest warrant, police raided Rush's apartment, however, he was not there. The activist coordinated his compliance to police questioning by turning himself into Rev. Jesse Jackson before a packed audience at Operation PUSH. Prior to his election to Congress, Rush was elected to Chicago City Council as part of the historic ticket led by Congressman Harold Washington, who became the first African American to serve as mayor. He represented the 2nd Ward on Chicago's South Side for eight years. During his tenure he helped pass significant environmental protection, gun control and neighborhood development legislation. In 1992, he was elected to serve in the U. S. House of Representatives representing the citizens of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois. He currently serves as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, co-chair of the Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus and, co-chair of the African Partnership. Rush received an honorary doctorate degree from the Virginia University of Lynchburg and, in 2007, he was the proud recipient of an honorary doctorate degree in humane letters from Roosevelt University, Chicago. He is the pastor of Beloved Community Christian Church and has been married to his wife, Carolyn, for 27 years. ###
11.19.2009	WASHINGTON -- "Hello and welcome. I am happy to be here today to announce the beginning of one of the largest, if not the largest, caucus in the United States Congress. As pleased as we are to continue our work on stimulating job growth in our nation, we are anything but celebratory about the abysmal unemployment rate of 10.2 percent, up from 9.8 percent before October of this year. "We are saddened and appalled that 8.2 million people have lost their jobs since December, 2007, and that 9.3 million Americans are currently working part-time jobs due to economic reasons, despite their desire and ability to work full-time jobs. "In the last year alone, over 645,000 jobs were lost every month. These are just a few of the staggering numbers that trouble all of us—Democrat or Republican, urban or suburban, majority or minority—all of us. "It is no wonder then that, over the course of two days, more than 125 members of Congress have pledged to come together, across the political spectrum, to agree to caucus together soon, and often, to discuss solutions to the jobs crisis. "The JOBS NOW! Congressional Caucus is here to declare that the nation’s jobless situation is, indeed, a national crisis, and we need to put politics aside to discuss solutions that will help put America back to work! "We are pledging ourselves to find ways to ensure that future legislation can incrementally, and sustainably, improve the jobless numbers. We pledge ourselves to determine how decisions we make in Congress can create new jobs in our communities. We are pledging to address the 51,000 manufacturing jobs that were lost, last month, among a whole host of other issues and initiatives. "Among other issues, this caucus will seek to closely examine worker training, increasing domestic manufacturing and production capacity in the United States, reducing trade deficits and reducing outsourcing. "We also must look at ways to encourage investment in our most challenging market areas—areas with the highest rates of joblessness. "These are the hard questions we simply must tackle…and the time for action is now!"Thank you." Congressman Rush (at podium) delivers opening statement at the launch of the Jobs NOW! Congressional Caucus. Shown with him, from left, are U. S. Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-IL); Jobs NOW! Co-Chair Candice S. Miller (R-MI); Jobs NOW! Co-Chair Marcy Kaptur (D-OH); and U. S. Rep. Diane E. Watson (D-CA). # # #
11.16.2009	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) released the following statement on the death of Chicago School Board President Michael Scott: "Michael Scott was a personal friend of mine and I am stunned by the news of his tragic death. He was an outstanding public servant, a champion for the little guy and a remarkable example of excellence," Rep. Rush said. "Michael was a problem solver and the people's advocate---be it for school children or patrons of city parks or those seeking decent, affordable housing--and his death has left a gaping hole in the relevant leadership in the city of Chicago. On behalf of the people of the 1st Congressional District of Illinois, my wife and I extend our condolences and prayers to the Scott family and to all those who mourn the loss of this prolific personality in Chicago's history."
11.05.2009	CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Clear Channel Chicago and Midway Broadcasting Company will reschedule a special two-hour, commercial free radio broadcast on the escalating youth violence to Saturday, November 14 in order to ensure the legislator's much needed voice and vote on health care reform over the weekend. Stopping the Hits to Stop the Violence will feature notable radio personalities, students, parents and community leaders; and, will broadcast simultaneously on WVON 1690 The Talk of Chicago, WGCI-FM (107.5), WVAZ-FM (V103) and WGRB-AM (Inspiration 1390).Rep. Rush serves as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, and has been a champion of health care reform and ensuring the needs of low-income citizens and people of color are not overlooked in the current bill.-30-
11.02.2009	CHICAGO – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), surrounded by students, educators, community leaders and child welfare advocates at the Gary Comer Academy announced plans to introduce federal legislation to combat violence among America’s youth. The "Conflict Resolution and Mediation Act of 2009" authorizes the U.S. Department of Education to make grants available to local education agencies (LEAs) directly impacted by discord and violent behavior. The bill also directs the U.S. education secretary to develop a written model for on campus conflict resolution and mediation and to make the model available within 90 days to any LEA requesting such. Rep. Rush’s legislation comes in the wake of a national spotlight placed on Chicago following the September 24 fatal beating of Christian Fenger Academy honor student Derrion Albert whose death was the result of ongoing conflict among students from different neighborhoods. "We are losing too many young people to violence and prison and it the responsibility of adults to break the cradle-to-jail-to-cemetery pipeline," said Rep. Rush. "Children cannot be expected to resolve their issues by themselves. Youth violence cannot solely be blamed on wayward teenagers. The blame must also be shared with adults and institutions that fail instill key values or provide basic services or an on-campus conflict resolution curriculum and equal protection under the law. "Without these vital on-campus meditation programs all students are at risk," Rush said. "These programs help young people develop priorities and coping skills—including the victim and the victimizer. These programs save lives. The Conflict Resolution and Mediation Act of 2009 will make sure model programs are funded and available to communities that need them." In 2008, 34 students were killed and another 290 shot on the streets of Chicago. The previous school year, 23 students were killed and 211 shot, according to public records. A recent Department of Justice report on national violence found that more than 60 percent of children surveyed said they were exposed to violence and nearly half said they personally have been assaulted. The Conflict Resolution and Mediation Act of 2009 is not Rep. Rush’s first effort to save young lives. Earlier this year, he introduced the Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity Act, or CAN DO, which employs a community-based remedial approach to addressing the issue of youth violence; as well as the Blair Holt's Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act that would establish a nationwide system for prohibiting unlicensed gun-ownership. If approved, the law would require gun owners to apply for five-year licenses to own firearms, and would give the U.S. Attorney General broad authority over the program. He is also a co-sponsor of the Youth Promise Act which calls for national standards and evidence-based practices to prevent juvenile delinquency and criminal street gang activity; a co-sponsor of the Second Chance Act which aims to provide new opportunities for previously incarcerated at-risk youth, and adults. In 2006 in response to the shooting deaths of Harper honor student Starkeisha Reed and 11-year-old Sieretha White, Rep. Rush created the Working Group for Hope and Healing in Englewood to provide alternatives to youth violence through summer jobs, internships, sports and cultural activities. The public-private partnership put more than 1,000 Englewood youth to work and was instrumental in reducing youth-related violence and conflict in the community that year. "This is a national epidemic and a national tragedy," Rep. Rush added, "and we must do all we can to protect our greatest resource---our children, our teenagers, our future generations." Rep. Rush plans to introduce the legislation in Congress this week. A summary of the legislation follows, however, for full text of the legislation please visit https://house.gov/rush: CONFLICT RESOLUTION AND MEDIATION ACT OF 2009 The purpose of this Act is to provide assistance to local educational agencies for the prevention and reduction of conflict and violence in schools throughout the country. The Secretary of Education is authorized to make grants to local education agencies (LEAs) to provide assistance to schools most directly affected by conflict and violence. MODEL PROJECT - The Secretary shall develop a written model for conflict resolution and mediation written within 90 days and make such model available to any LEA that requests such information. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS - There are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2010 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011 through 2015 to carry out the projects under this Act. (a) IN GENERAL - In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this Act for any fiscal year, a LEAs shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. (b) REQUIREMENTS - Each application under subsection (a) shall include-- a request for funds for the purposes described in section 2(b); information of the school and communities to be served by the grant, including the nature of the conflict and violence problems within and around the school; statistical information in such form and containing such information that the Secretary may require regarding conflict and violence within the elementary school and surrounding communities; and assurances that Federal funds received under this Act shall be used to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this Act. (c) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - Each application shall include a comprehensive plan that shall contain-- a description of the conflict and violence problems within the elementary school and surrounding community targeted for assistance; a description of the resources available in the community to help implement the plan together with a description of the areas in the plan that cannot be filled with existing resources; and a description of the system the applicant will establish to prevent and reduce ongoing conflict and violence problems. (a) ADMINISTRATIVE COST LIMITATION - The Secretary shall use not more than 5 percent of the funds available under this Act for the purposes of administration and technical assistance. (b) RENEWAL OF GRANTS - A grant under this Act may be renewed for not more than 2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which the recipient receives an initial grant under this Act, subject to the availability of funds, if— the Secretary determines that the funds made available to the recipient during the previous year were used in a manner required under the approved application; and the Secretary determines that an additional grant is necessary to implement the violence prevention program described in the comprehensive plan as required by section 5(c). SEC. 7. AWARD OF GRANTS. (a) SELECTION OF RECIPIENTS - The Secretary shall consider the following factors in awarding grants to LEAs: CONFLICT AND VIOLENCE PROBLEM - The nature and scope of the violence problem in the targeted schools. NEED AND ABILITY - Demonstrated need and evidence of the ability to provide the services described in the plan required under section 5(c). POPULATION - The number of students to be served by the plan required under section 5(c). (b) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION - The Secretary shall attempt, to the extent practicable, to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards. SEC. 8. REPORTS. (a) REPORTS - LEAs that receive funds under this Act shall submit to the Secretary a detailed report not later than March 1 of each year that describes progress achieved in carrying out the plan required under section 5(c). (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS - The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report by October 1 of each year in which grants are made available under this Act which shall contain a detailed statement regarding grant awards, activities of grant recipients, a compilation of statistical information submitted by applicants under section 5(b)(3), and an evaluation of programs established under this Act. ###
10.30.2009	CHICAGO - As the recession continues, utility companies say a growing number of Illinois families are falling behind on their electric, gas and water bills. In response, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will provide much-needed utility relief during district-wide energy assistance fairs where citizens can apply for grants to assist with bill payment or the reconnection of service. Rep. Rush's free "One Stop Utility Assistance Day" energy fairs will be held simultaneously on Saturday, November 7, 2009 from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. in Chicago at Walter Reed Elementary School, 6350 S. Stewart and for suburban residents at the Dwight D. Eisenhower High School, 12700 S. Sacramento Ave., in Blue Island. "Individuals on limited incomes, especially seniors and working class families, are making tough choices in order to pay their utility bills. In this economy, people need help to afford basic necessities," said Rep. Rush, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "We don't want people having to decide between lights and food or gas and medicine. This fair is an annual event for the purpose of bringing relief to our citizens." To apply for assistance residents must bring proof of household income or supplemental assistance, original social security cards for all household members, current electric and gas bills and other information such as leases agreements, landlord contact information and proof of address. Homeowners are required to provide proof of ownership in order to receive emergency furnace repair services. One Stop Utility Assistance Day was developed in conjunction with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, CEDA, People Gas, Nicor, ComEd, Community High School District 218 and the Chicago Public Schools. For more information contact Thyatiria Towns in Rep. Rush's District Office at 773-224-6500 or visit www.house.gov/rush for additional details.
10.30.2009	Right now, as the city I love mourns its way through yet the latest incident of youth-on-youth violence, this time captured on cell phone video at Fenger High School, I, for one, am fed up with the hand-wringing by public officials, cultural pundits and others. It's not as if the needs of our youth are unknown, what's missing is the will to act to address the obvious…black youth are hurting. The emotional and, often, physical needs of our youth far too often go unmet. Our youth need an intervention-a loving, effective mental health intervention-to help them deal with the anger and the festering effect of post traumatic stress that, I believe, permeates their lives. For the better part of last year, I went to the floor of the House to enter onto the congressional record a series of statements that I called “The Daily 45.” That number refers to the fact that everyday in this nation, on average, 45 men, women and children are gunned down, somewhere, on the streets of America. That's a level of carnage that, to this day, still eclipses the number of U. S. military casualties, per week, in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan combined! And, yet, where's the outrage when our youth shoot one another or, as in the case at Fenger High School, beat each other's brains out? It is only after our young people have committed murder that law enforcement rightfully steps in. What about before then? The men and women from my Chicago community need to look one another squarely in the eye and admit, whether we like it or not, that we, too, share the blame. Yes, we don't have enough financial resources and, yes, our communities are overwhelmed with joblessness, hopelessness and a terrible economy. But, somehow, we have got to come together to squarely address the needs of our youth before we, literally, lose the best of what this generation of young people has to offer. I offer a few sobering facts and, then, proposed solutions. In the 1980s, inner city communities were overwhelmed with the devastating effects of the crack epidemic. But, now, researchers from Vanderbilt University Medical Center believe that cocaine use during pregnancy can cause subtle but disabling cognitive impairments in offspring. Vanderbilt researchers, writing in the Journal of Neuroscience, note that cocaine exposure in utero can lead to attention deficits, learning disabilities and emotional problems. Research also shows there is a direct link between violent crime and the inaccessibility of mental health services, especially for children growing up in high crime areas. These are the facts, so what's the solution? Meaningful mental health intervention, treatment and ongoing support for our youth-provisions of which, I believe, must be included as a policy priority in our current national debate on health care reform legislation. There is abundant research that indicates that the best strategy for combating youth violence and keeping students in school must, at minimum, include three vital components: Prenatal care so our children are born healthy and happy; Early childhood education so our children are not entering school already disadvantaged as compared to their more affluent counterparts; and Access to mental health services at an early age and throughout a child's life to help them learn how to cope with the violence that they may witness, or encounter, in their lives and communities. Right now, there are several pieces of legislation in Congress that attempt to get to the heart of the problems that our youth are facing. Earlier this year, I introduced the Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity Act, or CAN DO, that would employ a community-based and community-oriented remedial approach to addressing the issue of youth violence. The CAN DO bill would bring together local, state, and federal stakeholders to provide resources and strategies to address four main areas that affect at-risk youth by providing: 1) a mental health services network; 2) employment training and opportunities; 3) educational and recreational services; and 4) community outreach and policing. Additionally, I am a co-sponsor of the Youth Promise Act, introduced by my friend and colleague Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03). This legislation, if adopted, would assess and develop standards and evidence-based practices to prevent juvenile delinquency and criminal street gang activity. I am also a proud co-sponsor of my friend and fellow Chicagoan Rep. Danny Davis' (IL-07) Second Chance Act, a promising piece of legislation that was signed into law under the last Administration but is still waiting to be funded. This bill aims to provide new opportunities for previously incarcerated at-risk youth, and adults, who have served their time but who are at high risk of returning to lives of crime short of effective interventions and guidance on how to lead productive lives. While these are just a few examples of policies that stem from the federal level, there are scores of equally well intentioned programs in place throughout our nation but they struggle for the lack of state or federal support. Now is the time for change and that change begins with me and those of us who voted to change our nation for the better last year. I've said before and I'll say again. If this generation of leaders who placed our hopes on the doorstep of President Obama fail to seize the opportunity to make our communities better for all of us-especially urban and troubled youth-then I say history will be right to damn us all for failing to rise to the challenge that a made up mind can bring. My mind's made up. How about yours? U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush represents the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. For more information on his anti-youth violence initiatives please visit www.house.gov/rush.
10.28.2009	WASHINGTON -- In the wake of mounting youth violence in Chicago and throughout the United States, today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush made public his direct appeal to Education Secretary Arne Duncan to immediately provide $50 million from available American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds for some of the most violence-plagued, public school communities in the United States. Rush's overture to the Obama Administration continues his push to effectively address the issue of youth violence in our nation. In his letter, Rush urged Secretary Duncan to provide $50 million in discretionary ARRA funds for the Grants to Address Youth Violence and Related Issues for Persistently Dangerous Schools Program under the Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools, a program administered by the U. S. Department of Education. Rush pointed out that, currently, in FY 09, the youth violence program has zero funding, which is the same amount it was funded in FY06 ($0) and FY08 ($0). In FY07, this critical program was funded at a paltry $8.5 million, and it is currently scheduled to receive zero funding in FY10. "At a time when youth violence, in Chicago and cities nationwide, is escalating and the country is focused on addressing this deadly issue, it is imperative that we provide the resources to help schools effectively deal with this urgent problem," said Rush as part of his communication to Secretary Duncan today. "There are a range of structural issues that run the gamut from adequate health care—especially mental health and post-traumatic stress interventions—that research proves can make a difference in the lives of young people whose lives are plagued with the scourge of gun-related and other forms of violence. While I applaud the concerted efforts of the Obama Administration whose work, in only 10 months, in many respects eclipses the track record of previous Administrations, my job as a legislator is to point out those programs that Congress has already authorized that can and should be put to use to help jump start important interventions for our youth. That's the spirit of what I've shared with Secretary Duncan, today, and I look forward to the Administration's response." Rush summarized his appeal to Secretary Duncan this way, "We cannot afford to, effectively, cut this program from the DOE at a time when it is most needed. Providing $50 million immediately to the program would allow eligible local education agencies (LEAs) to propose and implement activities that address violence, and related issues, in schools that are most at risk." In the coming days and weeks, Rush is marshalling his considerable resources in a series of activities—both advocacy and legislative—designed to call attention to research-based solutions and interventions that will help address the sad and tragic wave of youth-on-youth violence that plagues far too many schools and communities in our nation. This senior member of Congress promises to take concerted action until he's satisfied that federal, state and local resources, educators, community leaders, as well as parents and guardians of schoolchildren, are fully engaged in stopping youth violence. A copy of Rush's letter to Secretary Duncan is attached. # # #
10.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush released the following statement on news the gunman who took the life of 14-year-old Englewood native Starkeisha Reed in March 2006 was sentenced to 150 years in prison: "The long arm of justice has been served and I am satisfied with this sentence," Rush said. "No family should ever have to go through with the Reed family experienced. Starkeisha was cut down in the prime of her life, when her dreams were fertile and her future bright. We must continue to do all we can to ensure that all of our children are able to live the lives they have been given, and that our communities remain safe and protected places for our youth."
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON – "The 111th Congress took extraordinary steps to turn around our, then, collapsing economy when it passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Back in October 2008, I told citizens in my District, and across the nation, that I had just begun to ensure that the concerns of people living on Main Street would not be "eclipsed by the excesses of Wall Street." "Today's hearing is a continuation of my pledge. This hearing is more than just about the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA). It's really about the larger matter of what we, as Members of Congress, can do to assist the Executive Branch in coming up with a prescription to help cure our fiscal and economic ills. "As part of that prescription-building, we will have a frank discussion today regarding the MBDA's reformulated vision from its new National Director, David A. Hinson, and whether it makes sense to endow MBDA with more resources to pursue that vision. In listening to the testimony and ideas of our distinguished panel of witnesses, we will discuss what MBDA could do, in conjunction with the Department of Commerce, to help reverse the devastation that has touched down on many of our hard-working and, historically, "blue collar" and minority communities. These communities have suffered disproportionately under the yoke of this recession. "I am of the belief that the MBDA can be an agent for positive change, not just on Wall Street, but also on Raleigh Road in Wilson, North Carolina, on S. Presa Street in San Antonio, Texas, and on N. Broadway and W. 74th Street in Chicago, Illinois. To make that change the federal government and the states must authorize more spending of stimulus dollars and Recovery Act contracting resources with minority businesses. These are businesses that have proven time and time again that they can complete projects on time and within budget. There can be no other fair outcome. "Minority firms have a greater tendency than non-minority firms to train future minority entrepreneurs, recruit and hire minority workers, and set up operations in minority communities. African-Americans have a greater tendency to hire African-Americans. Women tend to hire women. Hispanic-Americans tend to hire Hispanic-Americans, and on and on it goes. This is how the real world operates. To understand this dynamic, one needn't look any farther than the halls of Congress. "Since the start of the recession in December, 2007, unemployment rates for all the major worker categories are much higher. The unemployment rates for minority workers are even higher than those for white workers, by as much as 50%. "According to the most recent U. S. Department of Labor employment statistics, the unemployment rate, across race, sex, and age for African Americans is 15.3% (in Dec. 2007, it was 8.6%), for Hispanic Americans, it's 12.2% (in Dec. 2007, it was 6.3%), for Asian Americans, it's 7.4% (in Dec. 2007, it was 3.7%), for American Indian and Alaska Natives, it's 15% (in Dec. 2007, it was 7.8%), and for Native Hawaiians it's 14.4% (in Dec. 2007, it was 2.8%). "These are horrifying statistics. They paint a picture of the underutilization of America's minority workers which, I believe, is a harbinger of worse things to come unless we change course. The picture I've outlined, today, parallels the assessment I've drawn with respect to the manner in which the federal government has previously engaged MBDA, which is under-utilized. "I will pose more questions to our panel of witnesses following their testimony, but to help frame today's discussion, please indulge me as I ask a few questions right now. "Should loans guaranteed by the U.S. government be extended to deserving minority businesses through, or with, MBDA's assistance; and, what types of banks and lending institutions should MBDA's partner with in such endeavors? Likewise, are all ethnic groups benefitting from MBDA's portfolio of services and to what extent are they benefitting? "In closing, thank you for coming here to offer us your perspectives. You are serving more than minority businesses through your appearances. You are also helping to uplift the United States from the severely, economically distressed position in which we find ourselves today."
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON – "Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to thank and commend you and the rest of the Committee for producing what I hope becomes a substantial change in the way the Ryan White program has been administered and delivered, particularly in minority, uninsured and underinsured communities. "As we all know, historically, there have been significant challenges in Ryan White dollars finding their way into many communities that need it most—particularly minority communities. "It is my hope that the efforts of the HIV/AIDS community, alongside Ms. Christensen—our tireless leader when it comes to healthcare disparities—me, and other champions of the underprivileged will have improved this situation, in the next round of Ryan White programming, with the changes proposed in the extension we’re considering today. "I am proud to have worked with the Tri-Caucus and the minority AIDS community to resurrect the formula-based funding approach, and to ease some of the administrative barriers that have locked out many deserving and qualified providers of care. "I am eagerly awaiting what the GAO will report to Congress on ways to improve capacity-building for smaller entities under the Minority AIDS Initiative. I hope that this legislation achieves its desired effect in better ensuring equity when it comes to the distribution of funds to low-income, urban and rural areas with high minority incidence of HIV and AIDS. "I thank this Committee for its hard work, and I am hopeful that we have achieved some meaningful change in how this program is administered in the future. Thank you, and I yield back my time."
10.09.2009	CHICAGO -- U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush extended his sincere congratulations on the announcement, this morning, that The Nobel Committee has bestowed its prestigious 2009 Nobel Peace Prize to the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama. "I agree with the sentiments expressed by these world leaders who said, "Only very rarely has a person to the same extent as Obama captured the world’s attention and given its people hope for a better future. His diplomacy is founded in the concept that those who are to lead the world must do so on the basis of values and attitudes that are shared by the majority of the world’s population." "As someone who has watched the remarkable rise of our President, today’s tribute, which puts him in the category of former U.S. Presidents and the late civil rights martyr Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., should serve as a shining example for our young people, especially Chicago’s young people, that hard work, perseverance and an abiding faith in God can lead to great things. "This is a remarkable day for Chicago, a great day for America and, indeed, an historic day for the world. "My hope and prayer is that this President will step into the shadow of the steps of wisdom and peace that this award represents and continue to wisely and safely ascend those stairs, on behalf of the U.S. and the world community, by helping to make the world a safer, more peaceful and prosperous place than the one he inherited on January 20th."
10.07.2009	WASHINGTON – "The subcommittee will come to order. I want to thank the Members of the subcommittee for participating in this important discussion. The world is currently engaged in an important economic and political shift. As President Obama said: "In the 21st century, we know that the future of our economy and national security is inextricably linked to one challenge: energy." "All the developing and industrialized nations are taking bold steps to address their energy needs and environmental challenges. In this race, some are increasing their production capacity, others are acting to protect their domestic markets, and some whose domestic markets are already matured, are opening new markets for their industries. "According to the New American Foundation, the United States moved from a positive trade balance in green technology in 1997 with $12 billion to a deficit of $8.9 billion in 2008, including renewable energy products. These figures amount to almost a $21 billion swing in a little over 20 years.If our green technology exports continue to plummet, then the U.S will miss out on a once-in-a-generation opportunity to become a global leader in the green energy sector. "According to the Department of Energy, the increase in exports of green technology could reach $ 40 billion per year and could create more than 750,000 jobs by 2020. It is estimated that the green technology industry in the U.S. employs 9.1 million U.S. workers. However, only 6 American companies are among the top 30 world leading companies. As we embark in this inevitable phenomenon which I will call "the green crusade," the future of the U.S. economy will not only depend on a vibrant domestic policy but will also be driven by the global market. "Now, we are presented with the following question: how do we reverse our trade balance and compete in this global market? How do we spur green jobs by increasing green technology exports? I strongly encourage my colleagues to expand their commitment to significantly increase our exports, help deploy clean technologies to developing countries and to assist them in addressing climate change, spur economic growth and create job opportunities for all American workers. "What will make us a global leader in today's time is to become an export led economy. The current global movement toward a green economy is an opportunity we MUST not miss and WILL not miss. "I am deeply honored to welcome all the witnesses to the subcommittee Committee's hearing. Considering that all of you represent different sectors, together, I hope we can look specifically at how best to enhance the U.S. competitiveness in the bourgeoning international market for green technology and therefore create more domestic jobs. "This hearing is a great opportunity to highlight the importance of a strong domestic policy to facilitate US penetration into the international market. Also, it is equally important that we include a strong long term export promotion policy to turn our economy toward what will make us a global leader. "Thank you and I yield back."
10.07.2009	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement in response to a visit to Chicago by U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan in the wake of the nationally broadcast beating death of 16-year-old Fenger High School student Derrion Albert: "It is always good to welcome Holder and Duncan back into Chicago," Rep. Rush said, "but it is not a good sign when they come to address why more than 500 school-age children have been shot or killed within the last year. Earlier this year, I introduced the Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity (CAN DO) bill as a comprehensive public health and safety strategy designed to reduce youth homicides and gun violence. If passed, the legislation will provide grants to six U.S. cities with the highest number of youth gun-related homicides. I am working with the Department of Justice to implement this strategy and appreciate the dialogue I have had with Attorney General Holder on this issue. "I also commend the parents from Altgeld Gardens who are protesting against current public school policies that have put many of their children at risk," he continued. "Derrion's death was a direct result of ongoing conflicts between students from Fenger and youth who formerly attended nearby Carver High School who were forced together as part of a citywide school reorganization plan. In the meantime, this city must not criminalize every Fenger student—or every young person living within our city limits—in order to usher in quick-fix solutions that turn our public schools into public jails. "It is important that parents and students remain involved in every single step of the planning process that goes into resolving school conflicts and reducing youth violence," Rush concluded. "Youth must take personal responsibility for their actions. Fear-mongering gets us no where. We must restore a sense of peace and learning in Fenger High School and Carver High School should open its doors to the youth of the community and not shut them out. I stand with these parents and their children in their fight for self-determination, safe communities and quality education."
10.02.2009	CHICAGO –– "As I reflect on the stunning loss of Chicago's heartfelt bid to host the 2016 Olympic Games, I believe that today's action is just the latest example of the cultural breach that still exists between the United States and several leaders of the global community of nations. Today's vote by the IOC members reflects the tattered relationships that remain after eight years of the catastrophic reign of the Bush Administration. It will obviously take some time for the Obama Administration to continue its important work to repair that breach. "At the same time, I am very proud of the effort put forth by President and First Lady Barack and Michelle Obama, Chicago Mayor Richard Daley, Chicago 2016 Chairman Pat Ryan and the sterling team they assembled. I also applaud the impassioned efforts Valerie Jarrett and members of the administration. If there's a silver lining in this cloud of disappointment it's my hope Chicago's corporate and civic leadership will join me in a reinvigorated commitment to use the focus, the brilliance and the sheer grit and determination that inspired our Olympic bid to stop the insane level of violence among our youth. Doing right by our young people must now be the top priority of our business and civic leadership. "I believe we must focus, right now, on those young people who need to be inspired and reconnected to the Olympic ideal of opportunity, spirited competition and the benefit of accepting victory, or defeat, with the understanding that they gave it their very best. If that's the legacy of this monumental endeavor, then I say it was well worth it."
09.30.2009	WASHINGTON -- "Today, the Committee on Energy and Commerce is considering three bills for mark-up, two of which were voted favorably out of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection on June 3, 2009. Each of these bills has been improved since subcommittee markup and introduction to better protect consumers, while ensuring that industry is not excessively regulated. "Chairman Waxman's Manager's Amendment makes several changes to H.R. 2221 and to H.R. 1319 in the nature of a substitute. The first bill we will take up is H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act. This new bill addresses data breaches by requiring entities holding personal information to adopt reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect that information, and for those covered entities to notify affected consumers in the event of a breach barring any "reasonable risk of identity theft, fraud, or other unlawful conduct." "First, the Manager's Amendment makes several deletions to requirements contained in the original bill. Specifically, the FTC would no longer be required to make additional findings in association with its rulemaking authority to prescribe standards for destroying paper documents containing personal information. "Second, the Amendment clarifies that Congress shall deem that covered entities - which are subject to more strict or "substantially similar" Federal data security statutes such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act's Safeguards Rule and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act - are in compliance with the amended bill's data protection and notification safeguards. "Third, the Amendment clarifies that an exemption for fraud databases will be extended to data brokers. It also permits consumers to prohibit the use of their personal information for marketing purposes in select circumstances in lieu of access and dispute resolution. "Fourth, the Amendment would now impose, on covered entities, a 60-day consumer notification requirement following the discovery of a breach, absent extraordinary circumstances. "Fifth, the Amendment expands consumers' options for redress in the event of a breach by affording consumers free credit monitoring or other services to detect misuse of personal information, as an alternative to free credit reports. "Sixth, the Amendment vests authority in the FTC to determine, over time, which security technologies and methodologies would entitle covered entities using said technologies and methodologies to a rebuttable presumption, exempting them from the Section 3 requirement to provide notification to consumers in the event of a breach. If the FTC or the States attorneys general can show, however, that notwithstanding the adoption of such technologies there still is a "reasonable risk of identity theft, fraud, or other unlawful conduct" following the data security breach, then the rebuttable presumption would fail. "Seventh, the Amendment clarifies that H.R. 2221 applies only to commercial entities that are subject to FTC jurisdiction and that the civil penalties cap relating to State enforcement could not exceed $5 million per discrete violation. "Eighth, the Amendment pre-empts State data security and breach notification laws."Finally, the Amendment adds a new definition term in Section 6 of the bill for "service provider." It is important in that entities fitting under the definition would be exempt from the bill's Section 2 security practices and policy requirements, and from Section 3 consumer notification requirements. A "service provider" is defined as "an entity that [merely] provides to a user transmission, routing, intermediate and transient storage, or connections to its system or network." # # #
09.21.2009	CHICAGO -- "On July 27, 2009, I convened a Congressional field hearing in this very building [Dirksen Federal Building]. The hearing was called in response to horrifying allegations of grave desecration and tampering at Burr Oak cemetery in Alsip, Illinois. At that hearing, some of the survivors of Burr Oak's buried, including Ms. Roxie Williams, who is with us today, told us how Burr Oak affected them emotionally and financially. They gave personal accounts of how their lives were scarred and feelings of loss resurfaced, when they learned that their loved ones' final resting places had been disturbed, allegedly, by four cemetery employees. "My subcommittee also heard from representatives of the funeral operations industry, Illinois government officials, and community and religious leaders."These witnesses contributed their expertise on the potential for real and tangible consumer abuses. They also offered recommendations to fix broken and ineffective cemetery regulations. "During the hearing, it became apparent to me that my staff and I must go back to Washington, and work hard to draft proposed legislation that would dramatically reduce the likelihood of a Burr Oak sequel. We decided that the legislation's purpose should be to protect consumers of cemetery merchandise and services, which not only include the deceased, but also the grieving family members they leave behind. "The bill that I am announcing today––the Bereaved Consumers Protection Act––marks a significant step towards closing unexplainable gaps in consumer protection. "The mere fact that a consumer has purchased cemetery goods and services or funeral merchandise from a cemetery operator, rather than from a funeral home director, should not diminish protections that are afforded to consumers. "Funeral, burial, and cremation costs are a major expense for most American households. A great majority of funeral and cemetery consumers are severely handicapped in their transactions with industry. The funeral operations industry is big business in the United States. An estimated 15,000 companies generate more than $15 billion in revenue from the operation of more than 20,000 funeral homes and 10,000 cemeteries and crematoria. "Seldom are these transactions conducted at "arms-length." Consumers lack leverage and critical information to make informed purchasing decisions. In this regard, the new law is designed to prohibit cemetery operators from acting unfairly or deceptively in their dealings with consumers. Another primary objective of the new law would be to promote fair trading practices, and the flow of funeral goods and services in the stream of interstate commerce. "The new Protection Act would authorize the Federal Trade Commission to adopt rules, making it a core requirement for cemeteries and crematoria to give consumers accurate, itemized price information and other affirmative disclosures. Cemeteries would also be required to keep clear records of all burials, entombments, and inurnments, and to make those records available to federal, state, and local officials. And, clear explanations of the property rights purchased, in addition to all relevant by-laws and regulations that govern cemetery care and operations, would have to be provided to consumers under the Protection Act. "Many of the deceased made their own funeral and burial arrangements on a pre-need basis. A lot of them assumed this responsibility in order to spare their loved ones and survivors from the further stress and strain of transacting for these very costly arrangements unassisted, in their absence. "Pre-need contracts can be price-guaranteed or non-guaranteed. Guaranteed cemetery contracts, just like price-guaranteed, pre-need funeral contracts, provide for payment of future cemetery merchandise and services. Pre-need and at-need contracts can typically be cancelled or transferred to another cemetery. Under the new Act, cemetery sales staffs would be required to include information about any additional costs that may be incurred, as well as information about the costs, fees, and penalties for transferring or cancelling that contract. "I want this bill to stop cemetery salesmen from stretching the truth about which merchandise and services that consumers must purchase to satisfy state and local minimums. This bill would also make it harder to "guilt-trip" and "guilt-trap"consumers into buying more merchandise and services than they need or can afford. "Finally, I will be asking the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO), this week, to survey the degree to which cemeteries are regulated across the country. Among other things, I would like the GAO to determine with more precision (since its last funeral industry study in 2003): (i)how these cemeteries are owned, and how extensive is common ownership between cemeteries and funeral homes; (ii) what state and municipal consumer protection and competition laws apply to these entities and consumers; (iii) what are the penalties for non-compliance with state and local licensing, posting, and disclosure requirements, and who assesses these penalties and enforces these investigations and actions; and (iv) what state and local licensing, reporting, record-keeping, and registration requirements currently apply to cemetery owners, managers and workers. "As part of its Study, I expect the GAO to provide Congress with usable policy recommendations. These recommendations may inform future decisions that I make as a Subcommittee Chairman, on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to establish fair and meaningful protections for consumers that interact with the cemetery sector. "In closing, I am encouraged by the steps that Governor Quinn has taken here, in Illinois, to address this frightening episode, through the work of his Cemetery Oversight Task Force. "I am certain that the GAO will be monitoring the Task Force's future proceedings and any actions that Springfield might take to adapt these recommendations to regulatory mechanisms affecting the operation and management of Illinois cemeteries. "Thank you for being with us today. I'd now like to take any questions from the press and media relating to this topic or the actions I have just announced." # # #
09.19.2009	CHICAGO – On Monday, September 21 at 1:00 p.m. in Courtroom 2525 in the Dirksen Federal Building, 219 S. Dearborn, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will conduct a news conference to announce federal legislation designed to ensure consumer protections against unscrupulous owners and employees of cemeteries and funeral homes. He will be joined by local elected officials, Burr Oak victims and cemetery reform advocates. If passed into law, the "Bereaved Consumers Protection Act," will be a significant first step towards comprehensive and uniform regulation of cemeteries and funeral home practices in the country. "Cemetery owners and those who sell funeral products will think twice before engaging in deceptive practices," said Rep. Rush, who is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "The 'Bereaved Consumers Protection Act' will close the legislative gap in how cemeteries are regulated throughout the country and define what steps consumers can take to guarantee their rights are protected. I don't ever want to see another Burr Oak scenario again." The "Bereaved Consumers Protection Act" will strengthen the Federal Trade Commission's (FTC) Funeral Rule, 16. C.F.R. Part 453, which prohibits unfair, deceptive acts or practices in the funeral operations industry. While consumer sales practices of funeral homes are regulated already by FTC's funeral rule, there is no similar rule governing cemeteries, crematoria, and independent sellers of funeral goods, such as caskets, urns, and memorials. The new rules would: Provide clear information regarding the prices of goods and services: All providers of funeral goods and funeral services would be required to meet many of the same standards funeral directors must now meet. They would be required to provide consumers with accurate price information on all of the goods and services they sell, would be prohibited from making misrepresentations to consumers about existing state and local law requirements, and would be prohibited from conditioning the sale of one good or service on the purchase of another. Make all contract provisions clear, including the provisions of preneed contracts:. All contracts for funeral goods and services would be required to be clear and to state precisely what is being purchased and the price of each item. Pre-paid contracts for funeral goods or services would be required to include information about any additional costs that may be incurred as well as information about the costs, fees, and penalties of transferring or cancelling that contract. Ensure that consumers understand the burial right purchased at a cemetery: Under the new rule, cemeteries would be required to provide consumers with all relevant rules and regulations regarding the cemetery as well as a clear explanation of the interment right that has been purchased. Improve cemetery record-keeping: Cemeteries would also be required to keep clear records of all burials, entombments, and inurnments, and to make those records available to federal, state, and local officials. The "Bereaved Consumers Protection Act," comes weeks after Rep. Rush held a July 27 congressional hearing in Chicago where funeral advocates, Illinois officials and others offered expert testimony along with Burr Oak victims who told compelling, horror stories to federal lawmakers. On July 9 four workers at the Alsip cemetery were accused of illegally digging up more than 300 bodies which were then discarded so graves could be resold. Prosecutors say the scheme netted hundreds of thousands of dollars. The accused have professed innocence. In August authorities began investigation similar grave desecration claims at Mount Glenwood Memory Gardens South and Mount Hope Cemetery. Rep. Rush is also requesting the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) survey cemetery licensing and regulation across the country. As part of its study, the lawmaker is asking GAO to also make recommendations to Congress regarding state licensing standards and employee registration and training requirements. -30-
09.17.2009	Washington - "First, let me thank the President of the United States, Barack Obama, and First Lady Michelle Obama for their support of this event and for the City of Chicago's 2016 Olympic bid. "We are honored to have one of his dear friends with us this evening. She's also someone I've know and admired for many years, Special Advisor to the President Ms. Valerie Jarrett. "I also want to thank the leadership of the House for their support on this important occasion. I am thankful to Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, to the Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, to Ways and Means Chairman Charlie Rangel, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, my co-chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus, Donald Payne, and the other Members of Congress who've made a commitment to the support of the work of this caucus and to help strengthen and expand the economic ties between American businesses and the continent of Africa. "Likewise, I also want to thank the members of the African Diplomatic Corps for responding on such short notice to this call. "To all the distinguished guests who have joined us this evening, welcome. And, also, a word of thanks to Lori Healey, President of Chicago 2016, for organizing tonight's reception. "The "Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus," or APEGc, that I co-chair with Congressman Donald Payne, is determined to strengthen the economic and cultural ties between the African and American people. We are excited about its prospects and dedicated to its success. "We are determined to intensify our efforts in advancing ties with the region. As President Obama said during his historic visit to Ghana, African nations are "partners and friends." As part of our efforts to strengthen our collaboration with African nations, tonight's event marks the start of a dialogue series with African Embassies on subjects of mutual importance. In other words, this gathering is the first of many more to come. "Simply put, sports is a critical instrument for the cultural and economic empowerment of our communities. "Angola will host the African Football Cup of Nations, in January, 2010. South Africa will host the World Cup in June, 2010. By the way, congratulations to the Ghanaian soccer team for qualifying for the World Cup in South Africa. I will not tell you who I am supporting between the "Indomitable Lions" of Cameroon and Morocco, but I do know that these are two good teams in the same group. "I am enthused about the prospect of Chicago hosting the Summer Olympic Games in 2016. "This is not the first time the American people and the African people have something in common. I represent a district that includes some of the most impoverished households in the United States. So I know, first hand, how important it is to identify new and expanded sources of economic opportunity for the people I serve, and Africa represents such an opportunity. "This is an historic time in our nation's history where we have this exciting opportunity to engage our African friends, in a mutually respectful manner, and to advance a common agenda. This is why we are here tonight. "My home State of Illinois is a major trading partner to Africa and our trade is very diverse. Right now, many trade organizations, in concert with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, are conducting trade missions to South Africa, Cameroon and Egypt. "We have very active local organizations like the Egyptian Trade Office, the Continental African Chamber of Commerce and the U.S.-East Africa Chamber of Commerce all of whom are involved in business promotion in Chicago. "Chicago also has one of the largest African immigrant populations in the United States. More than 100,000 live in Illinois. They include students, lawyers, doctors, nurses, academics and small business owners. They continue to play an active role in building our community. "We currently have, in the United States, 1.4 million African immigrants transferring approximately $40 billion to Africa annually. This shows the importance of the African Diaspora to the U.S. and for the nations of Africa. "Although Africa is suffering in the current global financial crisis, I believe, along with the U.S., she will overcome this challenge. The continent is blessed with natural and human resources. Africa could represent a growth center and a stimulus to the world economy if it is provided with the tools that are needed to meet development goals. For these reasons and more, the continent of Africa is of crucial importance to the United States. "I have introduced a resolution, H. Con. Res 128, to express and recognize this. With my colleagues' support, this resolution will be brought to the House floor before the end of this session. "It is time to have a mutually beneficial policy toward the African continent. As Angola and South Africa are currently preparing to host their championship events, I hope that with our African friends support, next month, Chicago will be preparing for the 2016 Olympics! Congressman Rush addresses an evening reception, in the nation's Capitol Building, of about 200 people including African Ambassadors, top congressional leaders, and national and Chicago-based civic and business leaders. Looking on is Special Advisor to President Barack Obama, Valerie Jarrett, and U. S. Rep. Donald M. Payne (D-NJ), who serves with Rush as co-chair of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus. Rush and Payne's leadership of APEGc, to date, includes assorted fora on Capitol Hill aimed at shining a spotlight on the growing opportunities for stronger trade ties between the U.S. and Africa. Last August, their leadership included the commissioning of a congressional delegation to Africa to visit several heads of state. Rush welcomes Senior Obama Advisor Valerie Jarrett and top congressional leaders to greet 16 African Ambassadors as part of his efforts to help secure the 2016 Olympics for Chicago. Looking on is Chicago 2016 President Lori Healey (center, left) a co-sponsor of this Capitol Hill reception # # #
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON –– "We're here today to discuss and confirm what many of us in the legislature, throughout the country, and in the communities in which we have served for countless years have already known, that tackling and eliminating social inequities––in this case health disparities among our most vulnerable populations––is not only the right thing to do, morally, but has always been the most cost-effective in the long run. "Many of us didn't need to hear that the Joint Center confirmed this notion that doing the right thing is always the most efficient way to do anything, whether it be eliminating waste, or safeguarding our economy… but it is surely good to hear. "As a Sub-Committee Chairman on the Energy and Commerce Committee, our Committee had to be sure to address the substantive policy issue of community-level prevention and access efforts, approaches I have been advocating for over the past 40 years as a community activist, as a Chicago alderman and, now, as a member of Congress. I'm pleased that we have come at least this far, despite the many miles we have left to go. We haven't made it this far in a national debate on healthcare in a long time. We're not there yet…but we will get there. "Whatever final bill the President signs, it must include a strong public option and provisions that protect minority communities by further eliminating the huge disparities that exist between them and the mainstream. As the President and others have stated, and as this report shows, part of the reason we are in this financial predicament is due to the continuation of historic inequities, and waste, in our current health system. "As for disparities, I have been pushing to close these gaps even further when it comes to children's healthcare coverage and benefits, which many people do not realize will be reduced under the new system as it compares to Medicaid and CHIP––measures we fought for so long to get. "I also would like to see other vulnerable populations provided better care including the two million American prisoners, 94% of whom will eventually be released and will place new burdens on our health care system. "Until we address all vulnerable populations, particularly with our children, millions of whom are eligible for programs but don't have access, I think we may find ourselves right back here in 10-20 years discussing some of these same issues. I hope I'm wrong." Congressman Rush (far right) joined Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius (at podium) and other top Congressional leaders to discuss the findings of a new study on racial inequalities in the U.S. health care system produced by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. According to Ralph B. Everett, President and CEO of the Joint Center (2nd from left), "This study shows that society has been paying a steep price in actual dollars and cents for racial and ethnic health disparities and unequal access to quality health care." Also participating at this morning briefing at the National Press Club, in Washington, D.C., were Donna M. Christensen, U. S. Delegate to the Virgin Islands, and House Majority Whip James Clyburn (right of podium). Congressman Rush discusses the implications of the findings of the Joint Center's report.
09.14.2009	CHICAGO –– In response to WBEZ Chicago public radio's exclusive report on the level of Illinois-based minority contractor participation in resources provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), compiled from data they received as a result of their Freedom of Information Request to the Illinois Department of Transportation, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) offered this statement: "I am very aware of the fact that many ARRA-funded projects in Illinois are not being fulfilled by minority-owned contractors, especially those led by African American-owned companies. For many years, I have worked tirelessly to address the myriad factors that contribute to the fact that our state has too few qualified contractors to compete, effectively, with general market companies. There are many factors that contribute to this including the general lack of information about when contracts are being let as well as several structural barriers—from the inability to get certified pursuant to state standards to things like the slower cash flow of government-run projects and the disparate impact it has on small business payrolls. These and other barriers are the issues my staff and I work on, literally, day in and day out. "I want my constituents to know that I've recently met with U. S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and the top executive he's assigned to address this issue, Brandon Neal, Director of the DOT's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, about ways to increase minority participation in federally-funded construction projects. "In addition, last week, several of my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I met with Vice President Joe Biden on this and related economic issues surrounding the federal government's efforts to quickly infuse states and local communities with targeted, ARRA-funded projects—projects that I voted for earlier this year. The Vice President was forceful and specific in outlining the actions the Obama Administration continues to take to ensure that the resources we voted for find its way, as soon as possible, to the communities that need it most. The Vice President was emphatic in stressing that he is rigorously holding all government agencies accountable for doing all they can to get resources out to the states right away and I was very reassured by his leadership and passionate commitment to the American people." Here's a link to the story WBEZ radio posted to its website, entitled "Are Stimulus Dollars Working for Minority Contractors in Illinois?": https://www.chicagopublicradio.org/Content.aspx?audioID=36732
09.09.2009	CHICAGO -- Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) said he was disappointed in Metro South Medical Center's decision to lay off 120 employees a year after officials at 410-bed hospital pledged they would not disrupt the quality of service. The legislator was equally concerned the announcement comes at a time when the nation is grappling with health care reform. "Today's decision is not only disappointing but it also completely contradicts the commitment MetroSouth made last year to ensure the community there would be no change in the delivery of services, "said Rush. "In July of last year the administration pledged to keep the existing level of charity care for a minimum of two years; to keep the facility open for a minimum of three years; and, to keep the same scope of services. Today's move undermines this pledge while forcing scores of people to join the ranks of Illinois' unemployed. "I worked diligently to keep MetroSouth (then called St. Francis) open and accessible to those in Blue Island and the surrounding community," Rush said. "Two-thirds of those served by this hospital qualify for Medicare, Medicaid or are uninsured. The layoff of nearly 10 percent of its work force will have a direct impact on the quality and overall delivery of health services to the south and south suburban region. The hospital board should re-consider its position and honor its commitment to the community it serves." ###
08.26.2009	CHICAGO – Today U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) said Governor Pat Quinn made the right decision in ending his efforts to force two prominent University of Illinois trustees Attorney James Montgomery and Dr. Frances Carroll to resign. The governor's action comes two days after the congressman said he was against the move and would stand with the embattled trustees in their fight to remain seated. "Governor Quinn has made the right decision," said Rush. "Attorney James Montgomery and Dr. Frances Carroll are outstanding public servants whose records are without blemish. This shows the governor will listen to the opinions of others, is reasonable and is willing to work for the good of the people of Illinois. The University of Illinois is remains one of our nation's premier institutions of higher learning and with this matter behind us it can get back to providing education and academic nurturing for our future leaders. I look forward to working with the governor in the future." ###
08.26.2009	CHICAGO – U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) reacted today to the death of Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy who died, last night, after losing his fight against brain cancer: "Ted Kennedy was an outstanding public servant, a prolific leader and a man with a big heart who was concerned about the least of these," Rush said. "He leaves giant shoes to fill as the country struggles to deal with the economy, health care reform and the revitalization of forgotten America. It would be a fitting tribute to Senator Kennedy for Congress to pass comprehensive health care reform legislation, in his honor, because this fight to make America better and stronger and healthier was among the last battles he would wage. His family remains in my thoughts and prayers." # # #
08.21.2009	CHICAGO -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) asked Illinois Governor Pat Quinn to reconsider his call for the resignation of two prominent members of the University of Illinois Board of Trustees which has recently been mired in an admissions scandal. The congressman wrote the governor to request that prominent attorney James D. Montgomery, Esq., and educator, Dr. Frances Carroll, two highly regarded members of the African American community, be allowed to remain on the board. "Recently you have asked the University of Illinois Board of Trustees for resignation letters in the wake of a report about the school’s admissions scandal. Included among those trustees are Attorney James D. Montgomery and Dr. Frances Carroll. I respectfully request that you reconsider your request for the resignation of these individuals," Rush said. "Attorney Montgomery is an outstanding citizen, legal scholar and civil rights activist. He is the former corporation counsel for the City of Chicago under the late Chicago Mayor Harold Washington, and the head of one of the nation’s most outstanding law firms. It is grossly unfair to tarnish his hard earned, highly regarded reputation and his exceptional character by virtue of your request. I have personally known Mr. Montgomery and his family for several decades and they are beyond reproach. He is a man of high honor and high moral character. I agree with him in his assertion that should he step down this would be an act tantamount to an admission of guilt. "Dr. Carroll is, equally, a person of honor and high moral character. She is an outstanding educator and civic leader whose contributions to the school children of Chicago have been invaluable in her capacities as a Chicago Public Schools teacher and administrator, including the daunting task of serving as principal of the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. I trust you will reconsider your position and act accordingly." Editor's Note: Letter attached. # # #
08.20.2009	CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today said he strongly believes the William Leonard Library of Robbins will be able to keep its doors open as it struggles to find ways to cover its operating costs. In his continuous efforts both to improve the quality of life of the citizens of Robbins and enhance the education of its youth who depend upon the Leonard Library for after school programs, recreation and tutoring, Rush has appropriated nearly $50,000 for the library over the last two federal fiscal years. In fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009 the congressman secured an appropriation of $237,000 and $190,000, respectively, for programming at suburban libraries in the 1st congressional district. Through of the Institute of Museum and Library Services of the federal government, Rush secured the earmark using the Metropolitan Library System (MLS) as the fiscal agent for the suburban library districts. In F'08 Robbins received $19,408 and this year it is set to receive $25,500. "The citizens of Robbins deserve a quality public library and the outcry its potential closing has generated in the last few days underscores that it is a vital community resource for families and children," Rush said. "The focus now is on trying to deal with getting Leonard Library ahead of the curve relative to when they get their property tax funds from the Cook County government." MLS Executive Director Alice Calabrese informed Rush's office the agency will make a first payment of $10,000 to Leonard Library by the end of August, 2009. The second payment of $10,000 will be made in September. The balance of $5,500 will be paid in October – for a total of $25,500. Regulations forbid MLS from paying out more than $10,000 per month. "The local library is the life blood of the community and it connects all generation," Rush said. "I am working hard to ensure this vital life line is preserved." ###
08.20.2009	CHICAGO – U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today re-affirmed his strong support for a public option in the final health care reform legislation currently winding its way through Congress. "It's time for the conversations to come to an end and for those of us who are responsible for legislating to do exactly that. From the days of my youth through the entire course of my adult life I have always stood for a health care system that covers everyone who needs it–regardless of their ability to pay. I believe the only requirement for people to receive health care is that they be sick. America deserves health reform now. "To those who fear that comprehensive health care reform will advance without a strong public option that will force private insurance companies to compete for patients, I say ‘fear not,' as I believe all of us should refuse to let this historic opportunity pass us by. "From the first day this session of Congress was gaveled to order, I have worked tirelessly with Chairman Waxman and other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to advance comprehensive reform legislation that makes structural reforms–including eliminating the insidious practice of refusing insurance coverage to those with pre-existing conditions–in legislation that I believe should have broad appeal on both sides of the aisle. However, over the course of the August recess, given the outrageous behavior that has been fueled by those business and political interests that continue to benefit from the status quo, I say enough is enough. "The House Energy and Commerce Committee was the last committee to adjourn before the August recess as we were determined to report a comprehensive bill out of our committee. Before we did, we worked around the clock to advance to the House floor a strong bill (H.R. 3200) that includes several important amendments I and others put forth, including a provision that eliminates the so-called "pay-for-delay" practice that allows drug manufacturers to delay the introduction of affordable generic drugs into the market–a practice that is financially detrimental to consumers. "I fully intend to see this process through to the end in the form of comprehensive reform legislation that insures every American and reduces costs for consumers. No option I've seen, to date, is set to force private insurance companies to do the right thing short of a public option. "That's what I stand for, that's what I intend to vote for and any bill that does not include an effective public option simply will not get my support." # # #
08.19.2009	CHICAGO – Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today came to the defense of a single mother of eight children who were put in Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) custody after being accused of living in squalor and leaving her children unattended. Mary Steele, 29, lives in the legislator's district and resides only a few blocks from his Bronzeville home. Steele's children range from age 3 months to 11 years old. The father of her two youngest children was fatally wounded by police in mid-July, according to the woman. Reportedly, the family's three-bedroom residence at 3817 S. Calumet had been vandalized by scavengers who stole copper pipes, light fixtures and other possessions before trashing the home shortly after she moved into it a few weeks ago. The mother said she moved into the unit at the encouragement of her father. Rush spent four hours today with Steele at the Cook County Juvenile Court, 1100 S. Hamilton, where she appeared for a preliminary hearing to determine if she would regain custody of her children. The congressman intervened after interviewing Steele, the woman's family members and others familiar with the case. He indicated that Steele's arrest may have been an "over reaction" by authorities and said the depiction of her case borders on the use of negative stereotypes. "I am disturbed at how this young mother has been portrayed in the media," Rush said. "Her household has been depicted as one of squalor and as unlivable, however, this appears to be misleading and an exaggeration of facts. Such characterizations only feed negative stereotypes about poor women of color. "We want those children healthy, happy and whole—and when possible we must work to keep families together," he said. "The system should not be about condemnation but compassion. This does not appear to be a case of rampant neglect and abuse as it has been portrayed, but a case of poor judgment and poverty. In any case, Chicago should step up to help this family rather than step on them." According to Steele, she drove to a nearby Walgreens to purchase baby formula and was gone for about 15 minutes when she returned to find police waiting for her. She said after she let authoriteis in her home she was told she was under arrest for child neglect and that her children would be taken from her. "They are trying to make me out to be a bad mother that don't care about her kids," a teary eyed Steele told Rush, "and that is not true. Someone broke in and stole my stuff when we moved there and then I got a notice saying the house was in foreclosure—so were trying to figure out where to move. My children have clean clothes and they eat three times a day and I love my kids. "I was holding my baby and I asked if I could change her diaper because she had (soiled herself) I was told to hand over my baby to a lady so I could be put in handcuffs," she said. "Then they said in the report the police had to clean my baby up. They said my kids were sleeping on the floor—we had three bedrooms and they have bunk beds. I regret ever leaving them alone and I wouldn't do it again—not even for one second." Rush said he was compelled to act after hearing her stand up for her parental rights on the news. He said Steele's plight in some ways reminded him of his own childhood. "I see in Mary Steele—a mother who loves her children, who's not made the best of choices, but at the same time should not be condemned." ###
08.10.2009	CHICAGO - U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) addressed constituent concerns about a U.S. Postal Service plan to close hundreds of facilities across the country as part of a major reorganization. At least four facilities in his congressional district -- 1510 E. 55th Street, 60615; 7715 S. Cottage Grove Avenue, 60619; 956 E. 58th Street, 60637; and, 10238 S. Vincennes Avenue, 60643--are under review. "I am working to keep as postal services assessable to all of my constituents and to ensure there is a continuity of service,” said Rush. "Citizens have 60 days to respond to a notice of closure or consolidation. It is important that citizens let their voices be heard so communities are not adversely impacted by this." The Postal Service is projecting a loss of $7.1 billion for FY2009. The agency has seen a decline of mail over the last few years and is estimated that 38 billion less pieces of mail will be sent in 2009 compared to 2007 numbers. Reportedly, most of the post offices that would be consolidated or closed down are located in urban or suburban population centers. The plan also calls for closing airport mail facilities, consolidating bulk mail centers and streamlining the computer software that maps postal routes. The closures could lead to the elimination of hundreds of jobs and more outsourcing. Postal officials sent a list of nearly 700 potential candidates for closing or consolidation to the independent Postal Regulatory Commission for review. No changes are expected before the end of the current fiscal year on Sept. 30. There are 32,741 post offices. More may be added, but the current list of candidates can be viewed at the commission's web site, www.prc.gov or visit Congressman Rush’s website at www.house.gov/rush. ###
08.07.2009	CHICAGO – U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) will lead a congressional delegation to Africa next week on a four-nation tour aimed at increasing trade, commerce and investment in Africa and strengthening U.S.- Africa business relationships with American exporters and minority- and women-owned enterprises. Rush, chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection on Energy and Commerce and co-chairman of the Africa Partnership for Economic Progress Caucus, will begin his trip on Aug. 15 in Liberia. The seven-member congressional delegation includes U.S. Representatives G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Steve Cohen (D-TN), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), and Emmanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO). The group will depart from Washington, D.C., and will return to the United States on August 24. In addition to Liberia, they will visit Ghana, Angola and South Africa. The Illinois congressman plans to meet with Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Ghana President John Evans Atta Mills, Angola President Jose Eduardo dos Santos and South African President Jacob Zuma, in addition to ministers and dignitaries in areas of economics, trade, telecommunications, foreign policy, education, arts and culture. "The world is interconnected and our all of our people are suffering from the global financial meltdown," Rush said. "With Africa in mind, solutions to these problems are not limited to foreign assistance and economic bail outs. While those concepts are effective in the short-term, they do nothing for the long haul. I firmly believe Africa holds the key to its own development. As Africa is calling for more trade and investment, we are going there to identify opportunities to encourage trade between our regions." He said his mission is to create a platform for U.S. businesses, especially for small size, women- and minority-owned enterprises in an effort to find creative solutions to the U.S. employment crisis. Only one percent (239,000) of all small and medium sized enterprises (SME) are exporters, although they represent 97 percent of U.S. export companies. However, these SMEs account for less than one-third of U.S. exports by value. "SME trade with Africa is almost non-existent," Rush said. "On both sides of the Atlantic, companies are not aware of the business opportunities available to them. Business expansion leads to increased earning power and job creation." Rush added, "Africa plays a significant role in meeting the world's energy needs, supplying new technologies and providing vital mineral resources. For example, oil and gas from the Gulf of Guinea region in West Africa accounts for over 19.5 percent of U.S. oil imports in 2008, a greater share than oil from Persian Gulf countries. The proportion of U.S. oil imports from Africa is expected to grow to 25 percent over the next decade. Africa's natural resources, if carefully managed, will contribute to global prosperity and expand economic growth. Coming after President Barack Obama's visit to Ghana in early July and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's seven-nation tour this month, Rush's delegation represents various influential committees including Energy and Commerce, Transportation and Infrastructure, Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, Science and Technology, Ways and Means, Homeland Security, Independence and Global Warming and Oversight and Government Reform. The trip will be monitored by the U.S. State Department. "Africa's growing importance is reflected in the intensifying efforts of China, Russia, India, Iran and other countries to gain access to African resources and advance their ties to the region. For these and many other reasons, I will use my subcommittee jurisdiction to improve U.S. business competitiveness in this untapped, important market. Having a more ambitious trade policy toward Africa will be mutually beneficial to both continents. Africa and its Diaspora is an asset in this global economy. It is time to have a more comprehensive, multi-faceted regional policy toward the African continent. ###
08.06.2009	CHICAGO – Today U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) issued the following statement in response to yesterday's release of a report, that he requested, from the Government Accountability Office. The report assesses the disparate impact of the incidence of death among minority children. "Unfortunately, the GAO report confirms the validity of the concern that I, dozens of my constituents and several of my peers in Congress have raised about the lack of preventive information and other safety precautions being effectively communicated and made available to parents of children from low-income, minority communities," said Rush who serves as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "I strongly support the GAO's recommendations and urge the Consumer Product Safety Commission to collaborate with the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services to implement cost-effective ways to improve the CPSC's data collection, outreach and messaging, especially to non-English speaking communities, to prevent further injuries. I firmly believe that a child's ethnic or economic station in life should not serve as yet another risk to their safety or, worse, their potential loss of life." The report, "Better Data Collection and Assessment of Consumer Information Efforts Could Help Protect Minority Children," includes several important findings including recommending that the CPSC develop and implement cost-effective ways to enhance and assess the likelihood that safety messages are adequately communicated to all intended audiences. ###
08.06.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), applauded the U.S. Senate for confirming Sonia Sotomayor to replace retiring Justice David H. Souter on the U.S. Supreme Court. She is the first Latino American to hold a seat on the high court. "This is a bright day for American justice," Rush said. "Justice Sotomayor brings her raw life experiences and keen awareness on the plight of those in the margins to the Supreme Court. I look forward to her tenure. This is another giant step forward for America." ###
08.04.2009	CHICAGO – The concerted efforts by U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush to ensure that a strong public option and the needs of children are effectively represented in whatever health care legislation emerges from Congress were highlighted, yesterday, by the esteemed children's rights advocate Marian Wright Edelman in commentary in the Huffington Post. In her opinion editorial, "Unfair Children's Health Disparities: More Reason for Reform," Edelman, the legendary children's rights activist and president of the Children's Defense Fund, said this, "In all of the recent debate over who deserves access to health care in our wealthy country, one often forgotten fact is that this is one more area where black children and other children of color have always been left behind. Of the nine million uninsured children in America, minority children are uninsured and underinsured at far greater rates than white children. One in 13 white children is uninsured, compared to one in five Latino children, one in five American Indian children, one in eight Black children, and one in nine Asian/Pacific Islander children…. It doesn't have to be this way, and we all need to tell that to our Members of Congress now. …. Health reform must make the system simpler and more equitable for children in communities of color. However, current health reform legislation in the House of Representatives fails to include the reforms children need. In order to create a level playing field for all children in this country, Congress must guarantee affordable coverage, head-to-toe benefits, and a simple and equitable enrollment process for every child in America. And in no case should some children be worse off under reform than they are now. Congressman Bobby Rush is trying to do the right thing for children. Tell your Members of Congress and Speaker Pelosi to support the Rush Amendments in the House health reform bill." Congressman Rush is a subcommittee chairman on the Energy and Commerce Committee and continues to work aggressively to ensure that meaningful health care reform is passed during this session of Congress. On July 31, during the E & C full committee markup, Rush succeeded in securing the adoption of an important amendment to the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 (H.R. 3200) that ensures consumers reap well deserved savings for their prescription drug medications. If signed into law, the Rush amendment would eliminate the so-called "pay-for-delay" practice that allows drug manufacturers to delay the entry, into the market, of affordable generic drugs. Rush continues to work with the Children's Defense Fund and a national coalition of non-profit children's and civil rights organizations to ensure that a meaningful public option and provisions that protect the needs of children are included in the final health care package. Some of those provisions include the continuation of early and periodic screening and diagnostic treatment services (EPSDT) benefits to children, cost protections for low-income families and simplified enrollment processes for children receiving public benefits. Here's a link to the complete commentary by Marian Wright Edelman: https://www.huffingtonpost.com/marian-wright-edelman/unfair-childrens-health-d_b_249921.html # # #
07.31.2009	WASHINGTON – This afternoon, by a voice vote of the Energy and Commerce Committee, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) secured the adoption of an important amendment to the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 (H.R. 3200) that ensures consumers reap well deserved savings for their prescription drug medications. If signed into law, the Rush amendment would eliminate the so-called "pay-for-delay" practice that allows drug manufacturers to delay the entry, into the market, of affordable generic drugs. The amendment specifically prohibits brand name and generic drug firms from entering into agreements that settle patent infringement claims, except in certain prescribed instances. Rush explained, "The existing regulatory framework established by the Hatch-Waxman Act created powerful incentives for makers of generic drugs to challenge brand name companies' patents, prior to their expiration. Excerpts of the statement he read into the record is as follows: "Because these new generics threaten the patent-protected profits of brand name companies, brand name firms have responded by offering "pay-for-delay" settlements to generics firms. In doing so, it is their intention to safeguard their enormous profits and extend the time it takes for new generic versions to enter the market, which would dramatically drive down the costs for these drugs. "Earlier entry by generics will save consumers billions of dollars. This would result in significant cost reductions and contain those costs in association with the health care reform package that we are now considering. "The Congressional Budget Office has scored this amendment as savings for the Federal Government while prohibiting settlement agreements for patent infringement claims, except where the consideration received by the generic entrant relates to marketing of the new generic drug, prior to expiration of the patent. "The amendment protects against unfair and deceptive acts or practices and an unfair method of competition under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act."As requested by the Minority at subcommittee markup, the amendment would require the disclosure of these settlement agreements to the Comptroller General for purposes of completing a General Accounting Office study. "My Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade & Consumer Protection held a hearing on the bill, and passed it out of the subcommittee on June 3rd of this year. "Thank you Mr. Chairman, and with that, I yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.27.2009	CHICAGO – Good morning. I'd like to welcome you all to my first subcommittee field hearing as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. I invited a number of Congressional members because I strongly suspect that what happened at Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, IL is not an aberration. If the horrible crimes that were committed at Burr Oak can happen in our district, they can also happen anywhere in our country. At a time like this, we especially need to hear from the citizens we represent, and they need to hear from us. That’s why I thought it would be best to bring Washington, D.C. to my beloved Chicago to hear directly from the citizens in the community whose lives have been shaken, and altered, by the horrifying revelations concerning Burr Oak Cemetery. I genuinely hope that the extremely disturbing and disrespectful revelations at Burr Oak bring greater attention to the problems of cemeteries throughout the United States. The stories of mass upheavals of sacred grave plots and the desecration of remains at Burr Oak, Menorah Gardens in Palm Beach, Florida, and at Tri-State Crematory in Noble, Georgia, just to name a few, should not vanish into thin air after dominating the news wires for a few days. Cemeteries and crematories should not be allowed to continue to abuse aggrieved consumers through fraudulent, shoddy and sloppy business practices. I have heard from hundreds of constituents, including Ms. Debra Charles. Her father, the former heavyweight world boxing champion, Ezzard Charles, was buried at Burr Oak along with her mother. Ms. Charles said that hearing about Burr Oak reopened old wounds of pain and loss, and that she felt she had to re-inter her parents yet again. Another of my constituents, Mr. Tony Burroughs––a professional genealogist whose two great aunts were buried at Burr Oak––points out that Burr Oak was probably the first African American-owned cemetery in the Chicago area. According to Mr. Burroughs, in February 1927, an armed posse of 75 whites interrupted a burial at Burr Oak arguing that African Americans could not be buried on the premises. Ultimately, the burial was permitted to proceed under the protection of police guard. This historic landmark should not have been allowed to fall apart the way that it did. When cemetery operators fail to keep accurate records of where the deceased have been laid to rest, families and loved ones are prevented from connecting to their past. It hurts families and shatters communities. When cemetery operators weave in and out of trust arrangements or intentionally structure those arrangements themselves, to escape accountability and regulatory requirements, quality of service and upkeep of cemetery facilities is prone to decline to unacceptable levels. The simple fact is that many consumers are unfamiliar with the sales practices of cemetery owners and operators because they provide once-in-a-lifetime goods and services. Lacking experience with the funeral and burial sectors, these consumers cannot be reasonably expected to effectively negotiate prices, choices and contractual terms applied to burial goods and to contracts and leases for land on graveyard property. Witnesses, please listen closely to my following request. As our witnesses on the first panel tell us about their experiences with Burr Oak, and as we talk about ways to better protect consumers of burial products and services, I would like for each of you, on the second panel, to think about and briefly answer the following questions when we open the floor to questions from members. Currently, there are no federal minimums for the operation of cemeteries. Do you think there should be? And if the answer is "yes," then what are the best ways for us to work together to make that happen? I ask unanimous consent that Representatives Danny K. Davis, Daniel Lipinski, Jesse L. Jackson, Jr., and Steve Cohen be allowed to make opening statements and participate in witness questioning during this hearing. I would like to note the presence of my good friend, Representative Jan Schakowsky from the 9th Congressional District of Illinois, who serves as the Vice-Chair of my subcommittee, who is also with us today. I am also deeply grateful to Mr. G. K. Butterfield, the honorable Representative from the 1st District of the great state of North Carolina, for traveling north to spend time with us in our wonderful city. In addition, I would request unanimous consent to enter the statements that are being submitted by families, loved ones and friends of those buried at Burr Oak Cemetery into the Hearing Record today. The Record shall remain open for 30 calendar days, from today, for the submission of such statements. Before I ask Ms. Schakowsky to present her opening statement, permit me to say that I am elated to see so many local, county and state-elected and appointed officials who also came out this morning to be with us. Thank you for coming. I look forward to hearing the testimony from all the witnesses who are here today. In closing, my heart and prayers, as well as the condolences and prayers from my own family go out to all those families who have been directly affected by the horrible actions exposed at Burr Oak. May God bless and keep you all through these painful and challenging times. # # #
07.15.2009	WASHINGTON –– Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) requested the U.S. Department of Justice launch a criminal investigation into the events surrounding the embattled Burr Oak Cemetery where the remains of more than 300 people were disinterred and dumped into mass graves as part of an alleged criminal enterprise. Although the FBI is participating with Cook County authorities in the forensic aspects, the congressman officially asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to "initiate a criminal investigation to determine if any federal laws, rules or policy statements were violated." "Unfortunately the damage done to the families and loved ones of those disturbed from their final resting places cannot be undone," Rush wrote. "(However,) we owe it to these citizens to ensure those responsible for these reprehensible acts are brought to justice and the mechanisms are put in place to deter this kind of despicable act in the future." Rush, who serves as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, issued the request at a time when thousands of complaints have flooded law enforcement agencies and government offices from families fearing the worst. He will conduct a congressional field hearing in Chicago on Monday, July 27 at the Dirksen Federal Building where victims will be able to tell their stories to federal law makers. Burr Oak Cemetery, in Alsip, IL, is located in his congressional district. Earlier this week, Rush hinted to Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairman Jon Leibowitz, the Burr Oak situation may be the tip of the iceberg, pointing to fact there may be no uniform statute regulating the conduct of cemeteries from state to state. The congressman also noted that despite FTC's Funeral Rule, 16. C.F.R. 453, which bans abusive and deceptive practices, most of states that do have regulatory laws lack effective enforcement mechanisms. Funeral Rule violators are subject to penalties of up to $10,000 per violation. # # # Editor's Note: DOJ Letter Attached; to review the FTC Funeral Rule visit: https://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/business/adv/bus05.shtm#intro
07.14.2009	WASHINGTON – In the wake of the criminal investigation regarding the recent disinterment of hundreds of human remains at the historic Burr Oak Cemetery, in Alsip, Illinois, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) today alerted the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that his review of existing federal statutes points to the need for a substantive inquiry of this incident, which occurred within his congressional district, and that the likelihood of stronger federal laws looms large. An astounding 53,000 complaints and requests for information from families with relatives buried in the cemetery have been filed with local authorities. "These families have been so brazenly violated and have been victim to unfair and deceptive practices," said Rush. "The Federal Trade Commission has a role to play in ensuring that these events never occur again within the United States. I fully intend to exercise the full weight of my office to ensure the needs of the people are heard, respected and addressed to the fullest extent of the law. That effort begins, formally, today." In a letter delivered to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, Rush, who serves as the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, expressed his concerns and pointed to the disturbing fact that at least 10 states have no laws at all regulating the behavior of cemeteries. In addition, most of those states that do have regulatory laws lack effective enforcement mechanisms. Rush said today's action will ensure that the needs of the families and loved ones of those who've been victimized are thoroughly addressed. # # # Editor's Note: FTC Letter Attached
07.13.2009	WASHINGTON –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement praising President Barack Obama’s nomination of Dr. Regina Benjamin to serve as the next Surgeon General of the United States. “President Obama has hit a home run, today, in his nomination of Dr. Regina Benjamin to serve as the next Surgeon General of the United States. She has an exemplary background as a family practice physician but what really stands out for me is her deep concern for patients. “At a time when my colleagues and I in Congress are engaging in the heavy lifting to pass meaningful health care reform, it warms my heart to know that we have a woman of the caliber of Dr. Benjamin whose focus, on Day 1, will be the needs of the least of these in our nation who need comprehensive health care services. I wish her good health and God’s speed during her confirmation process.” # # #
07.10.2009	CHICAGO - Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement regarding Sen. Roland Burris’ decision not to seek re-election: "Roland Burris has served the people of Illinois well. I understand his decision not to seek election for a full term in the U.S. Senate. I also recognize how difficult it must have been for him to raise money and organize a viable campaign given the tainted political jacket he was forced to wear by his critics. Today’s announcement means that the possibility of the Democrats maintaining a veto-proof majority, at a time when health care and energy legislation are top priorities, is now in jeopardy. Burris is the only African-American currently serving in the Senate and the prospect of an African American serving in the senate, in 2010, is slim. Roland has had a long and distinguished career in the public and private sectors and I wish him well." ###
07.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) responded with horror following news reports of the unearthing of the buried remains from a still undetermined number of grave sites at the Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, Illinois, located in Rush's 1st Congressional District. "Mere words do not fully convey my deep concern for the scores of families whose loved ones have been so tragically violated in this despicable manner," Rush said. The historic Burr Oak Cemetery, located in Chicago's southwest suburbs, is the final resting place for a number of prominent individuals including slain civil rights martyr Emmett Till, jazz legend Dinah Washington and heavyweight boxing champion Ezzard Charles. The Congressman's immediate concerns extend to traumatized family members and loved ones of those whose remains have been disinterred. In response to the unfolding news of the arrests of four employees who worked at the Burr Oak facility, Rep. Rush said, "If these allegations prove to be true, then the alleged perpetrators of these crimes have reached a new low in aberrant criminal behavior. Their behavior is a violation of the loved ones of the deceased as well as a violation of our entire community. I question the humanity of anyone who would callously believe that disinterring human remains to sell that same sacred space to another unsuspecting family, for profit, has any place in a civilized society. "While my staff and I review existing federal statutes that govern the licensing and conduct of cemeteries, for now, I take a small measure of comfort in the knowledge that the FBI is working with local law enforcement officials to get to the bottom of this obscene behavior. My heart goes out to the families and loved ones of those whose remains have been disinterred and I am keeping all of them in my prayers." # # #
07.08.2009	WASHINGTON –– “Good morning. I would like to thank all my colleagues and the witnesses who diligently worked to prepare testimony over the July 4th holiday weekend so that today’s hearing would be as meaningful as possible as we commence our examination of the Administration’s proposal to create a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency. “My view on the matter is fairly straightforward. I believe that the FTC should remain intact as it is currently constituted, and that this Committee and subcommittee should continue to oversee and authorize the FTC. “The Commission, which was established in 1914 during our nation’s progressive era, was designed to be a regulatory agency with disinterested expertise to ensure competition and to promote free enterprise. That mission and those prescient concerns are as vital today as they were almost a century ago. “The Commission operates best as a lone hawk. From high above, the agency can survey the marketplace and swoop down on predators that deceive unsuspecting and misinformed consumers. The higher and farther away that the FTC is from other agencies and the entities it regulates, the better it is at spotting unfair commercial and trading practices, and at isolating those practices that cast the longest shadows. Similarly, by staying at a distance, the agency can keep would-be captors at bay, while staying on course to achieve its critical mission of protecting consumers. “Looking at all reliable indicators, the Commission has performed commendably with a small and scrappy staff and abridged powers. Working along with a five-person, bi-partisan Commission are approximately 1100 dedicated employees spread out across three bureaus (Competition, Consumer Protection and Economics). Although its expertise is deep and broad, the FTC’s statutory tools under the FTC Act consist of an antiquated and cumbersome form of rulemaking under the Magnusson-Moss Act paired with anemic litigation authority. These tools may be successful at landing glancing blows but they fail to pack the full punch of deterrence that businesses will respect and consumers deserve. “Currently at the FTC’s disposal are its expertise and its agency-crafted instruments of research, public policy & study development, consumer complaint and education, competition, legal analyses and economics. What the FTC does well it has done without peer relative to its sister agencies. And, what it hasn’t done particularly well is well in the process of being fixed. “Just a few weeks ago, our subcommittee worked intently to mark up HR 2309, the Credit and Debt Protection Act, which directs the FTC to adopt rules using APA rulemaking authority that would address rampant, unfair and deceptive acts and practices in the areas of payday lending, automotive finance, mortgage and foreclosure rescue and debt settlement. “Our subcommittee’s objective in passing HR 2309 was to confer more authority upon the FTC and equip it with sufficient resources so that it could adopt rules faster in the areas of credit and debt, through APA rulemaking proceedings, and bring enforcement actions carrying the threat of civil penalties. “Our Committee has also worked devotedly in the past––more than a few times with members from the Financial Services Committee––to bolster the FTC’s shortcomings, hold out the FTC’s best practices for banking agencies to emulate in protecting consumers, and improve the ability of bank regulatory agencies to protect consumers by issuing unfair and deceptive rules under the FTC Act. “I have witnessed the respective Chairs of the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Financial Services jointly introduce H.R. 3525 to tackle some of these challenges. Further, I offered a friendly amendment to H.R. 3526, which was introduced by the Chair of the Financial Services Committee, in the 110th Congress, to require a GAO report investigating federal banking and credit union regulations and the perpetration of unfair and deceptive acts and practices by the depository institutions. “Importantly, this “push and pull” between our respective committees has pressured the providers of financial services and products, including banks and depository institutions, to balance the allure of profits and determinations of “safety and soundness” against the needs of consumers. “This collaborative working relationship between committees has produced good and sensible consumer protection bills to safeguard consumers of financial services and consumer credit products. It is a viable example for the independent agencies that would be affected by the Administration’s proposal to follow as it would allow each of them to maintain their independent and respective biases, experience, and expertise when addressing serious problems that cut across industry sectors and affect market suppliers and consumers. “I thank the witnesses for being here today and I look forward to their testimony. With that, I yield back the balance of my time.” # # #
07.06.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) said he was offended and insulted by the comments of New York Rep. Peter King after he called Michael Jackson a "pervert" and questioned the extensive media coverage of the pop star's death. "This guy was a pervert," the New York legislator said in the video, shot Sunday by a staff member outside an American Legion hall and posted to You Tube. "He was a child molester. He was a pedophile. And to be giving this much coverage to him, day in and day out, what does it say about us as a country?" The east coast legislator reiterated his statements today. Rush, who met with the singer in 2004, and has been a supporter of the Jackson family for several decades demanded an apology from King and said he should be ashamed of himself for politically exploiting the tragic death of the music superstar by expressing headline-grabbing fodder as he contemplates a run for higher office. "How dare Rep. King utter such scandalous and outlandish comments about Michael Jackson, when he has never opened his mouth to criticize his own colleagues who have been were accused of morally reprehensible, criminal or indecent acts and were forced to resign from public office," said Rush. "Michael Jackson was found innocent of the allegation against him and has never been classified in any court as being a pedophile. Therefore my colleague's position is just an opinion and not a statement of fact. "Michael will forever live in the memories of tens of millions of people around the world as one of the most creative, engaging and prolific artist of his generation," Rush continued. "To millions of African Americans children, specifically, his story of being born to a working class family in Gary, Indiana, to becoming one of the world's biggest stars illustrates the benefits of hard work, discipline, perseverance and self-determination. His story, from his humble beginnings, to his tragic passing at age 50 should be told. For Rep. King to use Jackson's death as a springboard to a campaign for a U.S. Senate seat is unacceptable. He owes Michael's mother, Katherine, children, the entire Jackson family, and his legions of fans an apology." ###
07.06.2009	CHICAGO - U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) recalled the legacy and contributions of two African American business giants, real estate tycoon and historian Dempsey Travis, who died July 2 at age 89, and, former Chicago Defender Publisher Frederick D. Sengstacke, who passed away July 1 at age 91. He said both men will be immortalized as champions for economic and social progress for African Americans throughout the nation. Travis, a stockyards worker's son who rose to become a real estate magnate, civil rights activist, jazz musician and historian, died this past Thursday at his home. As a South Side developer during the 1950s, Travis fought to increase African American home ownership and as a self-made millionaire also helped fund the political career of his high school friend, Harold Washington, who was later elected as Chicago’s first African American mayor. Sengstacke began his career at the Chicago Defender following service in the United States Army during World War II. He held leadership positions in every department of the newspaper including business manager, production manager, general manager, vice president, president, vice chairman of Sengstacke Enterprises and publisher and chief operating officer. Following his retirement from the newspaper in 2000, he remained as president of the Chicago Defender Charities, and continued as treasurer until his passing. "In this season of falling icons Chicago has lost two giants of African American progress and business excellence," said Rush. "Dempsey Travis defined his generation with jazz, social activism, economic development and scholarship. He will be remembered for his efforts to bring Chicago its first mayor of color, Harold Washington, and for breaking down the barriers to decent and affordable housing to African American families. "Fred Sengstacke had not only an eye for news but he also understood the business of news," the congressman continued. "His life represented the hopes and dreams of a people determined to break the bonds of inequality and social injustice. He will be remembered for his contributions to the Black Press and for helping to create and sustain a vehicle for us to tell our stories. I am indebted to both men for their life-long commitment to us all. "While our city and nation will miss Mr. Travis and Mr. Sengstacke, their legacy of African American success will stand as a shining example to future generations." ###
07.01.2009	CHICAGO -- The leadership displayed by U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) and his legislative team en route to last Friday’s historic 219 – 212 vote in support of H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES), was acknowledged yesterday in an opinion editorial in the Huffington Post by Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, CEO of the non-profit environmental policy organization Green for All. Rush was a member of the House whip operation, organized by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (CA-30), where he was responsible for helping secure votes for this important first step in America’s clean energy policy. Rush pressed for the inclusion of provisions that ensured that low-income and working class families would not be adversely impacted by rising energy costs. Rush also played a leading role in crafting the jobs component of this historic legislation, which will promote quality, career-oriented middle-class employment for historically disadvantaged groups, including low-income individuals, women and returning veterans. In her commentary in yesterday's opinion editorial, Ms. Ellis-Lamkins said this, "This unexpected success would simply not have happened without a broad range of groups—many of whom are not known for their engagement in climate and energy issues—coming together for a better, more equitable ACES. This coalition was made up of civil rights, social justice, labor, environmental, faith and community groups…Champions like Representatives Bobby Rush, Emanuel Cleaver and Ben Ray Luján, in particular, participated in the discussion and fought for their communities." A link to her complete commentary is posted here: # # #
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –– In the hours before today's historic House vote marking the first legislative step in ushering in America's clean energy future, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush spoke passionately from the well of the House floor in praise of Chairmen Henry Waxman and Ed Markey for supporting key provisions that will allow low-income populations, and communities of color to have a viable place at the table of America's emerging, clean energy future. "I fully support the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES) because it will not only make our country more self-sufficient and energy independent, but it will also provide jobs and new economic opportunities for all of our citizens while opening up an entirely new sector of our economy for working class families," said Rush who's been a leader on U.S. energy policy both in Congress and in his Chicago community for decades. "I am especially grateful that committee policy teams, leadership and staff worked side by side with my office, tirelessly, to improve this bill as it made its way through the legislative process and onto the House floor today. As our children and grandchildren look back upon this historic vote, I believe that we are standing on the threshold of the dawn of a new era in our nation—an era where the impact of 'green jobs' will be as unparalleled in its impact on our economy as was the dawn of the railroad system in the 19th century or the Internet in the early part of the 21st century." Rush, who also serves as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, pointed to several key provisions he and his staff were able to ensure made its way into the legislation. Among them was the creation of a green construction careers demonstration program, authored by Rush, to promote middle-class careers and quality employment practices in the green construction sector. This provision and others secured by Rush, combined, help to strengthen this legislation by not only protecting, low-, moderate- and middle-income families from rising energy costs, but they also provide essential assistance for individuals and families in a struggling economy who need new career pathways to move out of poverty and into quality, career-oriented jobs in construction and energy efficiency-related fields. A total of 60 percent of all allowances, or revenues generated from this bill, will go towards alleviating rising energy and other costs. ACES also creates new jobs in a number of different industries with the construction trades getting the biggest boost. The bill provides the Secretaries of Labor and Energy with significant authority to ensure that these green construction jobs are good, skilled jobs that are accessible to a diverse array of communities throughout the United States, particularly low-income and underrepresented workers. Highlights of key provisions Rush's team secured included: LOW-INCOME ALLOWANCES (60% of total allowances)Funding to offset electric bill rate hikes – 35% Funding to offset natural gas rate hikes – 10% Direct EBT and rebates for low-income families – 15% LOCAL TARGETED HIRING FOR MIDDLE-CLASS CAREERS IN CONSTRUCTIONA demonstration project that will provide $800 million for training and career path opportunities to targeted, local historically underrepresented groups, including low-income individuals, returning veterans, single mothers and others for:Increased resources for pre-apprenticeship training Wider access to apprenticeship programs Additional job opportunities for underrepresented groups in the construction trades. LOW-INCOME COMMUNITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAMThe LICEEP program, which will be funded at an estimated $60M annually and, ultimately, increasing up to $120M per year, will provide loans, technical assistance and grants to community development organizations. This program will provide financing to minority entrepreneurs and businesses that improve energy efficiency; identify and develop alternative, renewable, and distributed energy supplies; provide technical assistance and promote job and business opportunities for low-income residents; and increase energy conservation in low- income, rural and urban communities. PUBLIC HOUSING RETROFIT PROGRAMProvides up to $100M annually for a retrofit program for public and federally-assisted housing. Clarifies that the dollar limits are for per unit not per building; Allows the dollar limits and the 50% maximum share to be waived by the Administrator and HUD Secretary; Requires the Secretary to establish an extended affordability period commensurate with the funding received; Assures that the funding could not be used for demolition of public housing; Assures the provision would not lead to rent increases. # # #
06.25.2009	CHICAGO - Today Congressman Bobby Rush (IL-01) released the following statement regarding the Wednesday night shooting death of a 9-year-old while she and her father bathed the family dog. Rush, whose congressional district includes the community where the homicide occurred, is outraged at and appalled by the steady wave violence in Chicago that continues to claim innocent children, and vowed to continue his efforts to provide safe alternatives to those impacted by the trend. "Chastity Turner now joins a long list of fallen angels who have been cut down by gun violence in their own community," said Rush. "Instead of celebrating milestones such as college graduation, that first job promotion or a wedding ceremony, Chastity’s parents are now preparing for their daughter’s funeral. There is a national epidemic of youth violence sweeping our nation. Our children are not expendable, and we must not allow communities such as Englewood to be turned into graveyards. Life has to mean something. Every time we lose a young person to this random and senseless violence, the entire community is the victim. Therefore we have to mobilize, strategize and work together to develop comprehensive, holistic strategies to stop it. How many more must die? My thoughts and prayers are with the family of 9-year-old Chastity Turner, and particularly her mother and father. We must all come together to ensure that the lives of the innocent have not been taken in vain." ###
06.24.2009	WASHINGTON - "The subcommittee will come to order. I want to thank the members of both subcommittees for participating in this important U.S.-Africa trade hearing and, particularly, I would like to thank Chairman Payne for his strong commitment to economic growth in Africa. "For many reasons, Africa has become increasingly important to the United States. This hearing is our committee's first step in a process to chart a more productive course between the United States and Africa. "Recent reports demonstrate that the continent is in the midst of a transformational phase. Africa has multiple faces and is very diverse. There are bad stories as the media frequently reports. But, there are also good stories not so frequently reported by the media. "Ghana reflects the contemporary African experience. Its successful election and peaceful transfer of power are to be applauded. However, the electorate in Ghana anxiously awaits electricity, health services and access to education, employment and technology. "I am pleased that the President will visit Ghana and I enthusiastically offer my full support, from Congress, on his far-reaching mutually beneficial trade agenda for Africa. "African economies are among the fastest growing, globally, and registered nearly six percent overall economic growth in 2007, the highest in 20 years. The continent's challenges are amplified by the current global financial crisis. "Nevertheless, Africa could represent a growth center and a stimulus to the world economy if provided with the proper tools. "Today, there is a more visible African Diaspora, which reminds us that Africa is ready for business and cannot only be considered as a humanitarian case. The U.S. engagement should far transcend the humanitarian concerns that have frequently underpinned U.S. engagement with the continent. "In addition, the U.S. government and private sector should jointly promote Africa's economic development, U.S. trade with the region, and U.S.-Africa business partnerships. "Our historical connection with the continent does not automatically give us primacy. Other countries like China, the European Union, India, Iran, Brazil, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and others are intensifying efforts to gain access to African resources and advance their ties to the region. It is time for the U.S. to change its perception of Africa. We should strongly address their challenges to economic growth and, at the same time, build upon the opportunities. It is a ‘win-win' for both regions. "As the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, I look forward to working with my colleagues, the Obama Administration, and the private sector to end the paternalistic approach we have implemented in the past. By increasing commerce and trade opportunities that include women, minorities and small- and medium-sized enterprises, on both sides of the Atlantic, we will create a new zone of security and prosperity in Africa. "I strongly encourage my colleagues to expand their commitment to expand trade and investment, spur economic growth and create job opportunities for both the African and American workers." # # #
06.23.2009	WASHINGTON -- As the world begins to focus its attention on the historic, July 10 visit by President Barack Obama to the continent of Africa, where his father was born, in a letter to the President last week, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush praised the President's expanded vision toward Africa while also urging him to expand his Administration's commitment to trade and economic development with Ghana and other progressive African nations. "I am pleased that you will visit Ghana, following the G-8 Summit, and I enthusiastically offer my full support from Congress on your visionary and far-reaching trade agenda for Africa," said Rush in his letter to the President. While praising Ghana's successful, democratic elections and peaceful transfer of power, Rush expressed his support for this West African nation's accelerated efforts to assert its leadership in Africa's attempts to rise to the challenge of helping to meet the world's growing energy and mineral needs. "Ghana's hopes and challenges reflect the contemporary African experience. This nation has a highly educated, talented and young population that is in serious need of expanded access to education, employment and technology," said Rush who serves as the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. In April, Rush was the principal convenor of the Africa Partnership for Economic Growth Caucus (APEGC) and was a featured speaker at a gathering of international trade organizations held on the eve of the bi-annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund Bi-Annual General Assembly in Washington, D.C. "Our historical connection with the continent does not automatically give us primacy. Other countries know more about Africa's opportunities and challenges than we do. And many are intensifying their efforts to advance their ties within the region. I look forward to working with your Administration to implement a mutually beneficial policy toward Africa that will increase commerce and trade—especially for women, minorities and small- and medium-sized enterprises." Rush, who is in his third year of leadership as chairman of the subcommittee, is firmly committed to utilizing the full array of resources the subcommittee commands to seize this unique moment in American history to expand trade in a way that makes a difference in his community, state and nation. At an evening reception in the U. S. Capitol Visitor Center on the day the APEGC was formed, Rush joined with U. S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and top executives from the Business Council for International Understanding where he talked about his passionate pursuit of expanded ties between the U. S. and Africa, "I really believe that if, in fact, we can develop a common agenda with respect to U. S. trade with Africa, then it can be mutually beneficial. My district is one of the poorest in the nation. If I'm going to deliver effectively on job creation, then I've got to look beyond the borders of the United States. I want the citizens of my district to understand that they are, in fact, citizens of the world. That's what I want to promote." A copy of the letter to the President of the United States is available by clicking on this link: # # #
06.18.2009	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. Today, the Subcommittees on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection and Communications, Technology and the Internet are combining our commitment to privacy and our resources to conduct an extremely important hearing on "Behavioral Advertising: Industry Practices and Consumers’ Expectations." I want to thank Chairman Boucher for his dedication to this important Issue. "This is but one hearing along a continuum of legislative activity examining the domains of "on-line" and "off-line" consumer privacy and how companies handle and treat consumers’ personal information. Most recently, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, which I chair, marked up H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act, a bi-partisan bill, which addresses the security of personal information, breaches of that security, and corrects some of the resulting harms to consumers. I am hopeful there will be more hearings. "There are currently no federal laws specifically governing behavioral advertising nor do we have a comprehensive general privacy law. As members of congress, we have anticipated for some time that this hearing would be highly informative and very valuable in helping us answer the question that everyone seems to ask: is federal privacy legislation necessary, or should companies be trusted to discipline and regulate themselves? "At this hearing, I look forward to hearing from our very distinguished panel of witnesses about this growing trend of online behavioral advertising. Market research firms have estimated that behaviorally targeted ad spending will reach $4.4 billion by the end of 2012. That number is eye-popping as it translates into almost 25% of all the online display ad spending that is projected to be spent by year-end 2012."As prevalent as these ads are becoming so, too, are the "buzz words," which are purportedly needed to flesh out the appropriate contents of fair information principles and practices. "Words and phrases, such as "transparency," "choice," "notice," "consent," "consumer expectations," "opt-in" and "opt-out" seemingly mean different things to different speakers depending upon an array of variables. "Such variables may include the identity of the user, whether he or she has registered with the visited website, whether the ads are being served by first- or third-party sites, the sufficiency and conspicuousness of pre-existing privacy policies and disclosures, the robustness of user-enabled settings for managing user privacy, and the list goes on and on an on. "All of these variables are important to consider, but they can muddle the issue of whether legislation is needed. I will be listening intently to your accounts of how up front companies have been about the types of personal information they are collecting from consumers, what they are doing with that information, and what choices and controls that consumers have over the subsequent use of that information."Thank you very much for coming in to present your testimony. And, let me also thank all of the subcommittee’s members, and their respective staffs, for working so diligently to prepare us for this hearing." # # #
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today took to the nation's airwaves as he delivered this week's Congressional Black Caucus "Message to America," a weekly national radio broadcast, featured on the American Urban Radio Network, that focuses on the shared interests and concerns of the Congressional Black Caucus. Rush was recently named to the Board of Directors of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation.Rush's broadcast will be released, today, at 3:15 p.m. EST throughout the American Urban Radio Network's audience—an audience that reaches about 20 million listeners. It will also be prominently featured, on Monday, June 15, shortly after 7:00 p.m. EST on the popular "Bev Smith Show."Rush's message shines a spotlight on the nation's obscenely high levels of gun-related violence which continues unabated with an average of 45 gun-related deaths each and every day—more than the combined, weekly deaths that occur in the war zones of Iraq and Afghanistan. In his remarks, Rush highlighted two bills that offer common sense solutions that 1) aid law enforcement officials in tracking down guns involved in crimes (H.R. 45), and 2) supports community-based interventions (H.R. 1303) that have shown promising results in helping to stop gun-related violence, especially among at-risk youth.The text of the Congressman's two-minute remarks is as follows:"This is Congressman Bobby L. Rush, representing the First Congressional District of the State of Illinois, with this week's Congressional Black Caucus "Message to America.""Ladies and gentlemen, my message, this week, speaks to our nation's insane relationship with the gun. On a daily basis, on average, 45 men, women or children die as a result of gun-related violence. And yet, where is the outrage?"Guns are no respecter of persons. Whether it's extremists who randomly murder law-abiding medical doctors, like Dr. George Tiller, or hate-filled assailants who open fire in crowded museums or on the school yard—or the school bus—there are too many sad stories and too much loss of life."My colleagues and I in the CBC work tirelessly to stop the violence. I've even proposed a reasonable measure, H.R. 45, known as "Blair's Bill," that simply seeks to register guns as a way to aid law enforcement."I've also introduced a proactive remedy, H.R. 1303, known as the CAN DO Act. This bill is gaining national, community-based support for its common sense interventions and creative, public/private partnerships. I believe CAN DO can make a difference because it brings together local stakeholders who are committed to stopping the violence that plagues their neighborhoods."But much more needs to be done. "As an ordained minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ, my simple hope and prayer is this. That each of us would seek to love ourselves, and one another, more than we love guns."This is Congressman Bobby L. Rush with this week's CBC "Message to America." Thanks for listening."# # #Here's a link to the text of H.R. 45, "Blair Holt's Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2009":And H.R. 1303, "Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity Act of 2009" or "CAN DO":
06.09.2009	CHICAGO –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today applauded decision by the Metra board of directors to name the new 35th Street Metra station in honor of the late, IL State Rep. Lovana S. "Lou" Jones. The Metra board voted to name the station, located at 35th Street and LaSalle Street, the "Lovana S. (Lou) Jones/Bronzeville Metra Station." Last month, Rep. Rush submitted a formal request to the Metra Board to name this new Metra stop in honor of the Assistant House Majority Leader, who served for 20 years in the Illinois General Assembly. "I am pleased the Metra Board agreed to honor my request in honor of my dear friend, and political colleague Lou Jones. "This decision is even meaningful given the tremendous effort by Metra to provide the opportunity for minority businesses to participate in the economic benefits this new station will usher into Bronzeville." Rep. Rush commended Metra's commitment to ensuring that minority contractors were given the opportunity to participate in the $8.8 million construction project. Forty-three percent of the construction contracts to date have been awarded to MBE/DBE firms with pending contracts expected to push the final total to nearly 50 percent. Metra officials and the general contractor, Burns Construction have been very aggressive in working to bring minority contractors to the table, co-sponsoring a Minority Contractors Fair with Rush at the Illinois Institute of Technology last March. Jones, who spent nearly 20 years in the Illinois Legislature speaking up for abused children and ex-convicts, died at age 68 in May 2006. Known to everyone as "Lou," the Chicago Democrat chaired the House Committee on Public Safety. She had served since 1987 and was an assistant majority leader. Rep. Rush began his legislative quest to establish this Metra stop early in his congressional career following a conversation with former Chicago Alderman Christopher Cohen. Undeterred by Metra's early refusals to support the station, in both the 1994 and 1999 federal Highway Reauthorization bills, the congressman remained adamant in his pursuit of this project. In 2004, Metra agreed to support the construction of the station and legislator secured $4.1 million in federal funds from the 2005 Highway Reauthorization bill. Earlier this year, Rep. Rush worked aggressively to pass the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) which provided a significant boost to the Metra station project by injecting $7.5 million in economic stimulus dollars into the construction project. Groundbreaking on the new project, which will generate 100 construction jobs, is expected to take place in the first week of July. # # #
06.09.2009	CHICAGO - U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement on learning Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan filed a nine-count civil suit against current Crestwood Mayor Robert Stranczek and his father, former Mayor Chester Stranczek, accusing them of lying 120 times about their secret use of a village well contaminated with life-threatening pollutants. The congressman, who has held two forums with hundreds of Crestwood residents about this matter, in April demanded the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency investigate, which led to a joint EPA-U.S. Department of Justice raid on the village soon thereafter. "The state has taken a significant step in restoring the public trust to the people of Crestwood and holding accountable those individuals who have endangered the health and safety of my constituents," Rush said. "Accountability is a key to good government and those responsible must be held accountable. As the state moves forward with its case, I will continue to press the Justice Department and the U.S. EPA in its ongoing investigation that may lead to charges against those who knowingly endangered the lives of these citizens. I also applaud the vigilance of Crestwood leaders, such as Tricia Krause, whose research and perseverance broke this story wide open and has helped lead to today's results."###
06.09.2009	WASHINGTON -- "Good morning. The subcommittee will come to order."Today, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce is holding a hearing entitled "It's Too Easy Being Green: Defining Fair Green Marketing Practices." During this hearing, we will be taking up the truthfulness of "green" advertiser claims, consumer perception of "green" claims, and the respective roles of the Federal Trade Commission and privately run certification and labeling programs in regulating and validating these proliferating claims. "More than ever before, the shelves of our supermarkets, hardware, "Big Box," home improvement, and pet stores are being lined with goods bearing labels touting themselves as ‘natural,' ‘biodegradable,' ‘eco-friendly,' ‘sustainable,' ‘carbon-neutral,' ‘recyclable' and ‘non-toxic,' just to name a few. "With the increased demand by these stores for more green products, we have seen an increase in third party companies certifying these green claims. While some responsible companies have created certifications and labels backed by criteria and testing, other companies have spotted an opportunity amidst the consumer demand for information. For a fee, these companies will certify anything as green, affording false comfort to purchasers that the products meet environmental and safety standards. "Just to cite a few relevant statistics, in 2008, consumers purchased $290 million in natural household cleaners and supplies. In addition, the Wall Street Journal reported in April 2009, that "there are more than 300 such [environmental] labels putting a green stamp on everything from cosmetics and seafood to bird-friendly coffee.""Because there are no common agreements or generally accepted definitions relating to the meaning of many of these words, and since consumers are being bombarded by so many of these claims and certifications, there is legitimate concern that some consumers are basing their purchasing decisions on misleading and, in some cases, even deceptive labels. "I am especially concerned that Americans with less disposable income to spend on "green" goods are not getting the benefits they expect when they spend their hard earned money on these goods, which promise more and, often, cost more at the check-out line. "At the conclusion of today's hearing, I would like for this body to have more insight into the FTC's update of its Green Guides and how extensively consumers, manufacturers, and advertisers are consulting and relying on these guides. "Second, I want us to discuss whether the FTC should be more aggressive in monitoring and/or regulating the placement of claims on products. And how, in the flow of commerce, can the Commission ensure that "green" labels are more useful and informative than is currently the case. "Third, and finally, I would like for us to explore the role of the private sector. We'll ask how responsible vendors of truly environmentally responsible and safe products can differentiate themselves from the products that make unsubstantiated claims. And, we'll examine the role of privately run certification and labeling programs. "I look forward to hearing the testimony and to participating in the exchange that follows. Thank you all very much for agreeing to help us examine this topic and to come up with constructive proposals to address the issues that have been identified." # # #
06.03.2009	CHICAGO -- U. S. Representative Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) recently asked the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to investigate whether the University of Chicago Medical Center engages in "patient dumping" practices designed to steer primarily poor and uninsured people to other health care facilities, regardless of medical need.In a May 25 letter to committee chairman U. S. Rep. Edolphus Towns, the congressman decried patient dumping as a widespread, national problem and cited the pervasive impact of the practice when many Americans suffer economic hardship and lack access to quality health care. The call for an investigation comes less than a week after the hospital moved to close a South Side women's clinic at 47th Street and Woodlawn, in Rush's district, that mostly provided care to thousands of women on public aid."As an institution that received federal funds, I am concerned about recent media reports that allege the medical center is turning away and refusing treatment to low-income, uninsured patients," Rush wrote. "Congress has a duty to expend its power to mitigate and prevent this despicable practice from continuing in centers that receive federal funds."He also said he may move to suspend the hospital's federal funding if the patient dumping allegations are sustained. "Why are taxpayers giving money to an institution which benefits from a tax-exempt status if the institution is allegedly engaging in one of the most reprehensible practices in modern times? According to the Center for Budget and Tax Accountability, the University of Chicago Medical Centers receives $58.6 million in tax benefits but provides only $10 million in charity care. Patient dumping is immoral and unethical; and, it also has a disproportionate impact on people of color, primarily African Americans who live within the vicinity of the hospital but are unable to obtain care there. The only requirement for treatment in our nation's hospitals should be that a person is ill."In March, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services found the medical center did not maintain a central emergency services log and failed to give an elderly man, who later died, a mandated medical screening exam. Some statistics indicate more than 13 percent of people who seek emergency care at the facility are turned away.Nearly 47 million Americans are without health insurance. Since the beginning of the recession, an estimated four million additional Americans lost their health insurance. On average, 14,000 Americans lose their coverage every day. Medical errors in hospitals cause more than 100,000 deaths each year."Health care reform is the single most important domestic issue facing our nation. In 2007, we spent $2.2 trillion on health care, 16 percent of our gross domestic product," Rush said. "Left alone, our broken healthcare system will cost the American people another $2.2 trillion by 2018. We need reform now. Families cannot wait. America cannot wait."# # # Here's a link to the pdf version of the letter to Rep. Towns:
05.28.2009	CHICAGO -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush released a letter he sent on Tuesday to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson that both applauded her agency's prompt leadership in launching a federal investigation into the contaminated drinking water in the Village of Crestwood while also calling on her office to expand the scope of its investigation to determine whether or not key provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act should be strengthened. Specifically, Rush's concerns extend both to existing federal standards for acceptable levels of chemical contaminants as well as rules surrounding when the public should be notified when evidence of contamination has been found. "One of the key questions I had during this process was whether or not failure to alert the public was criminal. If it wasn't, I believe it should be," said Rush who has been a local and national leader on environmental protection issues for decades. "I've spoken to hundreds of my constituents in the Village of Crestwood who've told me, first hand, how members of their families and others in their neighborhoods have suffered from what they believe to be undue incidents of cancer and other diseases. Most of these people believe their ailments are tied to Crestwood's contaminated drinking water. This is obscene behavior that should not occur in a country with the scientific talent we can bring to bear. My staff and I are working tirelessly to get to the bottom of what took place in Crestwood, when and how. My goal is to ensure that justice is served and that it never happens again." On May 9, less than three weeks from the day that initial news reports on this issue were published in Chicago, Congressman Rush convened a town hall meeting where he heard, first hand, from more than 600 residents who expressed outrage and fear about the impact of ingesting drinking water on the health of themselves and their families. Earlier, on April 20, Rush sent a letter to Administrator Jackson calling upon the EPA to launch a federal investigation into this matter brought to the public's attention, in large part, as a result of courageous Crestwood resident and mother, Tricia Krause. A copy of this week's letter to the EPA is attached. # # #
05.28.2009	In addition to several pieces of legislation currently in process (including the a bill to strengthen U.S. Environmental Protection Agency drinking water standards and requirements in response to the Crestwood drinking water issue), U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush has introduced the following bills in the 111th Congress: 1. H.CON.RES.128 : Expressing the sense of Congress that Africa is of significant strategic, political, economic, and humanitarian importance to the United States.Introduced 5/18/2009 Cosponsors (11) Committees: House Foreign Affairs Latest Major Action: 5/18/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. 2. H.R.20 : Melanie Blocker Stokes Mom's Opportunity to Access Health, Education, Research, and Support for Postpartum Depression Act (“Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act”) To provide for research on, and services for individuals with, postpartum depression and psychosis.Introduced 1/6/2009 Cosponsors (15) Committees: House Energy and Commerce; Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions House Reports: 111-48Latest Major Action: Passed the House of Representatives and referred to Senate and Read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions on 3/31/2009. 3. H.R.45 : Blair Holt's Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2009: To provide for the implementation of a system of licensing for purchasers of certain firearms and for a record of sale system for those firearms, and for other purposes.Introduced 1/6/2009) Cosponsors (None) Committees: House Judiciary Latest Major Action: 2/9/2009 Referred to House subcommittee. Status: Referred to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. 4. H.R.444 : 340B Program Improvement and Integrity Act of 2009: To amend section 340B of the Public Health Service Act to revise and expand the drug discount program under that section to improve the provision of discounts on drug purchases for certain safety net providers.Introduced 1/9/2009) Cosponsors (74) Committees: House Energy and Commerce Latest Major Action: 1/9/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. 5. H.R.1133 : Family Telephone Connection Protection Act of 2009: To amend the Communications Act of 1934 to require the Federal Communications Commission to prescribe rules regulating inmate telephone service rates.Introduced 2/23/2009) Cosponsors (None) Committees: House Energy and Commerce Latest Major Action: 2/23/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. 6. H.R.1303 : CAN DO Act of 2009: To require the Attorney General, through the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice, to establish a 5-year competitive grant program to establish pilot programs to reduce the rate of occurrence of gun-related crimes in high-crime communities.Introduced 3/4/2009) Cosponsors (5) Committees: House Judiciary Latest Major Action: 3/16/2009 Referred to House subcommittee. Status: Referred to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. 7. H.R.1706 : Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs Act of 2009: To prohibit brand name drug companies from compensating generic drug companies to delay the entry of a generic drug into the market, and for other purposes.Introduced 3/25/2009) Cosponsors (7) Committees: House Energy and Commerce; House Judiciary Latest Major Action: 3/25/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 8. H.R.2221 : Data Accountability and Trust Act: To protect consumers by requiring reasonable security policies and procedures to protect computerized data containing personal information, and to provide for nationwide notice in the event of a security breach.Introduced 4/30/2009) Cosponsors (4) Committees: House Energy and Commerce Latest Major Action: 5/5/2009 House committee/subcommittee actions. Status: Committee Hearings Held. 9. H.R.2272 : United States-Cuba Trade Normalization Act of 2009: To lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and to establish diplomatic and other relations.Introduced 5/6/2009) Cosponsors (48) Committees: House Foreign Affairs; House Ways and Means; House Energy and Commerce; House Judiciary; House Financial Services; House Oversight and Government Reform; House Agriculture Latest Major Action: 5/6/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, the Judiciary, Financial Services, Oversight and Government Reform, and Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 10. H.R.2299 : Minority Small Business Enhancement Act of 2009: To amend the Small Business Act to enhance services to small business concerns that are disadvantaged, and for other purposes.Introduced 5/7/2009) Cosponsors (25) Committees: House Small Business Latest Major Action: 5/7/2009 Referred to House committee. Status: Referred to the House Committee on Small Business. 11. H.R.2309 : Consumer Credit and Debt Protection Act: To provide authority to the Federal Trade Commission to expedite rulemakings concerning consumer credit or debt and to direct the Commission to examine and promulgate rules with regard to debt settlement and automobile sales, and for other purposes.Introduced 5/7/2009) Cosponsors (2) Committees: House Energy and Commerce Latest Major Action: 5/12/2009 House committee/subcommittee actions. Status: Subcommittee Hearings Held. Summary of Rush Amendments to Energy Bill LOW INCOME COMMUNITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM (LICEEP) ($50 million annually from 2010-2015) Accepted into base billLoans, technical assistance, and grants to private, non-profit, mission-driven community development organizations including community development corporations and community development financial institutions to provide financing to businesses and projects that improve energy efficiency; identify and develop alternative, renewable, and distributed energy supplies; provide technical assistance and promote job and business opportunities for low-income residents; and increase energy conservation in low income rural and urban communities. LOW INCOME ALLOWANCES (60% of total allowances)- Accepted into base bill. Provides assistance to low, moderate, and middle-income consumers through utility allowances (35%), natural gas utilities (9%), and direct rebates and EBT payments (15%). Large-Scale Vehicle Sharing Program – Accepted into base bill Financial assistance for regional deployment and integration of grid-connected car-sharing vehicles operated by community-based programs that integrate with and extend the public transit system through provision of these vehicles for hourly usage. Funds may be used by non-profit programs for offsetting the cost of purchasing new plug-in electric drive vehicles, for expanding and making the vehicles available to underserved communities, deployment of electric charging stations or battery exchange locations, or facilitating the integration of smart grid equipment with plug-in electric drive vehicles. Funding for Predominantly Black Institutions (PBIs) – Accepted to base billProvides funding PBIs that seek to establish one of the 8 Clean Energy Innovation Centers established in the bill. HEARINGS Auto Safety: Current Mandates and Emerging IssuesMay 18, 2009The hearing examined the status of existing congressional mandates on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as well as emerging issues in vehicle, highway, passenger, and pedestrian safety in preparation for reauthorization of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users Act. H.R. 2309, the Consumer Credit and Debt Protection Act and H.R. 2190, the Mercury Pollution Reduction ActMay 08, 2009To provide authority to the Federal Trade Commission to expedite rule making concerning consumer credit or debt and to direct the Commission to examine and promulgate rules with regard to debt settlement and automobile sales, and for other purposes. H.R 2190- amend the Toxic Substances Control Act to phase out the use of mercury in the manufacture of chlorine and caustic soda, and for other purposes. H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act and H.R. 1319, the Informed P2P User ActMay 05, 2009Hearing examined ways in which to protect consumers by requiring reasonable security measures that safeguard computerized personal information data, and to provide for nationwide notice in the event of a security breach.Hearing also examined ways in which to prevent the inadvertent disclosure of information on a computer through the use of certain ‘peer-to-peer’ file sharing software without first providing notice and obtaining consent from the owner or authorized user of the computer. The Bowl Championship Series: Money and Other Issues of Fairness for Publicly Financed UniversitiesMay 01, 2009Examined issues of competitive fairness and the extent to which public colleges and universities are adversely impacted by the inequitable distribution of revenue generated from the Bowl Championship Series system. Examining the Status of U.S. Trade with Cuba and its Impact on Economic GrowthApril 27, 2009 The hearings examined the economic embargo against Cuba in the context of the global financial downturn and explore the potential economic impact of normalizing U.S.-Cuba trade relations. H.R. 1706, Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs Act of 2009March 27, 2009 To prohibit brand name drug companies from compensating generic drug companies to delay the entry of a generic drug into the market, and for other purposes. Consumer Credit and Debt: The Role of the Federal Trade Commission in Protecting the PublicMarch 24, 2009Examined ways in which the FTC can better provide safeguards for the public against deceptive acts and abusive practices by financial and credit institutions. Stimulating the Economy through Trade: Examining the Role of Export PromotionMarch 17, 2009The hearing examined the role of exports in U.S. economic growth, the impact of export promotion programs sponsored by the federal government, and the assistance available to help U.S. businesses expand markets for U.S. products. Consumer Protection in the Used and Subprime Car MarketMarch 05, 2009The hearing explored the current state of consumer protection in the auto market, with particular attention to purchases by lower income individuals. Revisiting the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976February 26, 2009The hearing addressed critical gaps in the statute and explored how these gaps hinder effective chemical safety policy in the United States.
05.26.2009	CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), applauded President Barack Obama's selection of U.S. Circuit Court Judge Sonia Sotomayor to replace retiring Justice David H. Souter on the U.S. Supreme Court. If confirmed, she will become the first Latino American to hold a seat on the high court. Sotomayor, 54, a Princeton and Yale law school grad, has been on the U.S. Appeals Court for the Second District, which covers Connecticut, New York, and Vermont, since 1998. In 1992, she became a federal judge for the Southern District of New York. She grew up in a Bronx housing project after her working-class parents moved to New York from Puerto Rico and has said she dreamed of becoming a judge after reading the "Nancy Drew" book series. "Judge Sotomayor is a great choice," Rush said. "Her life presents a compelling story--one that indicates that the plight and problems of the struggling, the working-class and those who live in the margins of society will have a judicial advocate on the high court. "Sotomayor's life mirrors the lives of most minorities who dare to reach for the American Dream," he said. "Her experience far exceeds any other recent justice at the time of their nomination." ###
05.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– The long march toward America's clean energy future ended its first round, this week, with the late night adoption, on Thursday, of the first markup of H.R. 2454, "The American Clean Energy and Security Act" (ACES). Following a bipartisan majority vote of 33 – 25, in the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (CA-30) acknowledged the leadership role played by U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), and others, in helping to adopt legislation that will protect the environment by reducing harmful carbon emissions while also helping to reshape the U.S. economy with the launch of new energy, or "green," jobs. "As someone whose leadership in clean, affordable energy extends back to my years of service in the Chicago City Council, I am proud to be a leader in an historic undertaking that is inclusive, bipartisan and that is focused on moving our nation's energy policy into the 21st century," said Rush who serves as the Committee's Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "The amendments and provisions that I put forth, and were adopted by my colleagues, are designed to ensure that low-to moderate-income families are able to afford the essential upgrades that are needed to ensure that America's energy future is better than its past. In our march toward that future, our energy resources must be available and affordable to every citizen. I've worked diligently to include key provisions aimed at unleashing the energy innovation of community-based, non-profit organizations who work with diverse populations, day in and day out. I believe these groups can make a difference in helping to ensure that the full range of benefits that will emerge from America's growing ‘green economy' extend to the needs and interests of historically underserved populations. As this bill advances, I will continue to do all I can to support Chairman Waxman and other leaders to provide President Obama with a piece of legislation that all of us can support." Since this bill was first introduced in the House on May 15, Chairman Rush and his legislative team have worked aggressively to press for the inclusion of several key provisions. In a series of public letters to Chairman Waxman and Energy and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Ed Markey (MA-07), Rush outlined his concerns on several issues ranging from energy policy to the bill's economic impact on working class families. Highlights of the Rush amendments and provisions that were included in ACES include: Low-Income Allowances: A provision that provides assistance for low-, moderate- and middle-income consumers through utility allowances (35%), natural gas utilities (9%), and direct rebates and EBT payments (15%); Low-Income Community Energy Efficiency Program ($50 Mil annually from 2010-2015): A provision that provides loans, technical assistance, and grants to private, non-profit, mission-driven community development organizations including community development corporations and community development financial institutions to provide financing to businesses and projects that improve energy efficiency; identify and develop alternative, renewable, and distributed energy supplies; provide technical assistance and promote job and business opportunities for low-income residents; and increase energy conservation in low-income, rural and urban communities. Large-Scale Car-Sharing Program: A provision that provides financial assistance for the regional deployment and integration of grid-connected, car-sharing vehicles operated by community-based programs that integrate with and extend the public transit system through provision of these vehicles for hourly usage. Funds may be used by non-profit programs for offsetting the costs of purchasing new plug-in electric drive vehicles, for expanding and making the vehicles available to underserved communities and for other approved purposes. Funding for predominately black institutions that seek to establish Clean Energy Innovation Centers. Rush is also pushing for another important amendment that would include a provision that ensures that low-income and underrepresented workers are fairly included in construction-related jobs. And, finally, Rush is pressing for a provision in the bill that will provide grants to public housing agencies for energy retrofits and green investments in properties receiving assistance. # # # Note: Here’s a link to the House Energy and Commerce Committee with additional information about ACES: https://energycommerce.house.gov/ And here are links to pdf copies of Chairman Rush's letters to Messrs. Waxman and Markey throughout the markup process: Rush Letter to Chairman Waxman- ACES - (4/30/09) Waxman Markey Letter- Local Targeted Workers - (5/19/09) Waxman Markey Letter- Housing - (5/22/09)
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON – Today, in a strong bipartisan show of support for the American middle-class, the House voted 361 to 64 in support of "The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights," a bill that provides a long overdue series of sweeping reforms aimed at applying fairness and common sense in the regulation of the nation's credit card industry. U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) voted "yes" in support of this measure that is en route to the President's desk for signature. "I have always stood for equitable treatment of consumers, especially low- to moderate-income men and women who often rely on their credit cards at a much rate higher than wealthy consumers," said Rush. "Today's vote says loudly and clearly that the days of confusing and obscure interest rate information, not to mention punitive fees that are often applied to cardholders who pay their bills on time, will be a thing of the past shortly after the President signs this bill. H. R. 627 is a much needed protection for consumers who work hard and play by the rules and I believe it will help make a difference as the House continues to work with the Obama Administration to right our economic ship of state." Key provisions of the legislation include: Prohibits arbitrary interest rate increases on existing balances, unless the consumer is 60 days late on a payment or fails to comply with a workout agreement Strengthens protections against excessive fees on low-credit, high-fee credit cards Prohibits late fees if the card issuer delayed crediting the payment Requires each issuer to post its credit card agreements on the Internet, and provide those agreements to the Federal Reserve Board to post on its website # # #
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Building on the historic opportunity that currently exists as the progressive leadership of the Obama Administration continues to enhance America’s international standing, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) has introduced a House resolution that makes clear that circumstances exist that offer a unique opportunity for the United States to redefine its historic economic and trade relationship with the continent of Africa. House Concurrent Resolution 128, introduced with 11 original co-sponsors, outlines a set of conditions that Rush views as a unique opportunity for the United States to re-define its economic relationship with Africa. He believes that now is the time for America’s trade policy toward Africa should change from one that views it as a continent primarily in need of humanitarian relief to that of a vital partner in the world economy with abundant economic opportunities for current and future generations. "Simply put, I believe the time has come for American trade policy to reflect a more enlightened view toward the continent Africa so that it’s not just thought of as a place that needs humanitarian aid but, rather, as a continent comprised of a community of nations with diverse development and economic needs and opportunities," said Rush who chairs the House subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "Currently, the U. S. does not appear to have a clearly defined path forward that will substantively open up expanded opportunities for trade, especially between small, minority- and women-owned businesses. Ample evidence points to the fact that a sound policy in this regard can benefit the economies of the U.S. and many nations on the continent of Africa. This resolution represents my commitment, along with other national leaders, to do all we can to help elevate the discussion on how America’s business and economic policies toward Africa can be permanently changed for the better." H. Con. Res. 128, in part, notes that the non-profit organization Freedom House concluded, this year, that 19 African countries are electoral democracies and asserted that these include "some of the most promising examples of new democracies in the world—places where leaders who came to power through fair and competitive elections provide real opportunities for their citizens to live in freedom." The resolution also notes that the United States Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) has entered into 11 compacts with African countries, worth nearly $4.5 billion, reflecting these countries’ commitment to policies that promote political and economic freedom, investments in education and health, the sustainable use of natural resources, control of corruption, and respect for civil liberties and the rule of law. Joining Congressman Rush in introducing this resolution were the following 11 members of the House: Rep Cao, Anh "Joseph" [R-LA-2] Rep Clarke, Yvette D. [D-NY-11] Rep Clay, Wm. Lacy [D-MO-1] Rep Cummings, Elijah E. [D-MD-7] Rep Fattah, Chaka [D-PA-2] Rep Kilpatrick, Carolyn C. [D-MI-13] Rep McDermott, Jim [D-WA-7] Rep Meeks, Gregory W. [D-NY-6] Rep Payne, Donald M. [D-NJ-10] Rep Rangel, Charles B. [D-NY-15] Rep Royce, Edward R. [R-CA-40] Here' a link to a pdf copy of the resolution: ###
05.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "The subcommittee will come to order. "Today the Subcommittee will conduct its first oversight hearing of the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, or NHTSA, in the 111th Congress. "The intent of today's hearing is fairly simple. I want to know if NHTSA is taking the necessary, proactive steps to ensure that American consumers are as safe as they can reasonably be in their personal, commercial, and recreational vehicles. Whether it is a parent driving his or her children to school, a motor-coach full of children traveling to the museum, or simply driving to work, Americans everyday put their faith in the safety of the cars and trucks they drive. It is of absolute importance that manufacturers and government regulators meet this basic expectation. "With this over-arching goal in mind, there are several issues that I want to explore in this hearing that specifically implicate safety. "First, is NHTSA issuing safety rules that are relevant and timely? Is the agency sufficiently heeding the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board and responding to findings that point to dangerous problems? In this regard, I am very interested to know how NHTSA has responded to recommendations from NTSB on issues surrounding tire pressure monitoring, tire retread standards, and Electronic On-Board Recorders for commercial vehicles, as well as the overall safety of motor-coach vehicles. "Second, is NHTSA sufficiently implementing Congressional intent? In 2005, Congress mandated that NHTSA establish standards reducing rollover crashes and mitigating the resulting damages. Congress alsocalled on NHTSA to study "dynamic testing" that duplicates the forces at work in a real rollover crash. I want to know where the agency is in meeting this Congressional mandate. "Third, I'd like to know what steps NHTSA is taking to meet the unique challenges of safety for hybrid and alternative fuel vehicles, which are quickly becoming a significant segment of cars driven by Americans. If we are going to promote these vehicles to American consumers in our efforts to further energy independence and combat global climate change, we have to also assure Americans that they are as safe as conventional vehicles in order to foster their long-term commercial viability. "Fourth, I am interested to know what special steps NHTSA is taking to ensure child safety in vehicles. The Chicago Tribune recently ran a story citing the poor performance of child car seats, and the Secretary of Transportation, my friend and former Congressman from Illinois, Ray LaHood, has ordered a comprehensive review of the car seat safety program. Moreover, I want to know what initiatives, if any, NHTSA is taking with regard to rear seat-belt reminders and safety features that notify the driver that a child is present in the back seat of a car. "Lastly, I want to know if NHTSA has the sufficient resources to meet the unique challenges of the 21st century and the changes occurring in American transportation. "I take this subcommittee's jurisdiction over NHTSA and vehicle safety very seriously. I very much believe it is possible – indeed necessary – to promote energy independence, fight climate change, AND ensure safety AND nurture the long-term success of American-made cars and trucks. This Subcommittee has an important role to play in furthering these goals, and they are not mutually exclusive concepts. "I want to thank the witnesses appearing before us today, and I think I speak for all of the members of this subcommittee that we look forward to working with the Obama Administration, Acting Deputy Administrator Medford, and the future full-time Administrator of NHTSA, whoever that may be, on matters affecting vehicle safety. "With that, I yield back the balance of my time." # # #
05.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you, Mr. Markey, and the very capable and hardworking staff on the committee for the great effort all of you have demonstrated in reaching out and making this a very collaborative and inclusive process. "I also applaud you, Mr. Chairman, for personally meeting with me to discuss the issues I addressed in the letter I sent to you on April 30th, which outlined the priorities that were so important to me and my constituents. "This is a good bill, Mr. Chairman, a very good bill. This bill addresses my most pressing concern that provisions to assist low-, moderate-, and middle-income families are included through a variety of mechanisms. "This legislation helps families pay for rising energy costs associated with this bill by offering allowances to electric and natural gas utilities in order to help them subsidize consumers' energy bills. "However, as the Center for Budget Policy and Priorities, whom I have worked closely with, noted in their report, rising energy bills would only account for part of the costs that low-income families will face. "So the inclusion of allowances for direct support through rebates and EBT cards to low-income families is something that I pushed for and I am very happy to see that it is included as a part of this bill, Mr. Chairman. "I am also encouraged by your pledge to work with me on addressing my other priorities, including ensuring that new, quality green jobs for low-income communities, as well as funding for minority- and women-owned businesses will also be a result of this bill. "The inclusion of language from my office establishing the Low-Income Community Energy Efficiency Program, or LICEEP program, is a great start to addressing these concerns. "The LICEEP program will provide grants to private, non-profit, mission-driven community development organizations, including community development corporations and community development financial institutions in order to increase the flow of capital and benefits to low-income communities, as well as minority- and woman-owned entrepreneurs and businesses. "This will spur new projects and activities in low-income communities designed to reduce environmental degradation, foster energy conservation and efficiency, and create job and business opportunities for local residents. "But there is still more that needs to be done to ensure that socially and economically disadvantaged entrepreneurs and communities are given a fair opportunity to access funding and bring jobs into their communities. "So, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to continuing to work with you and your staff to address these issues further, and I also look forward to a vigorous and constructive debate as we seek to create new jobs, rejuvenate our environment, and move America into energy efficiency and security. With that I yield back my time." # # # NOTE: A link to a copy of Chairman Rush's letter to Chairmen Waxman and Markey is provided here:
05.15.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) released the following statement in wake of General Motor Corporation's (GM) intent to file for bankruptcy by June 1 and move to shutter 1,100 "underperforming" U.S. dealerships. The news is equally sobering after hearing D'Andrea Buick, at 71st Street and Western Avenue, was asked to close its business of 10 years by an October 2010 deadline. As the nation struggles with soaring unemployment rates, the automaker's decision will reportedly put 15,000 people out of work: "It is has been said that when the U. S. economy catches a cold, the middle-class and the poor get pneumonia. That sentiment rings particularly true after learning the owners of a valued Buick-Pontiac-GMC dealership in my district received word that their business will be shuttered along with hundreds of others by General Motors. This unprecedented cut will leave thousands out of work," Rush said. "D'Andrea Buick, Inc., owned by Nick and Amy D'Andrea, is slated to lose their GMC franchise by the fall of next year. The dealership has provided a stable, middle-class livelihood for dozens of workers and families for years, including the D'Andrea family whose hard work allowed them to move from employees to owners. Today's effort by GM's leadership is especially cruel given the nation has seen a sharp rise in unemployment. "I look forward to working with the D'Andreas and other small business owners who are bearing the brunt of a brutal economic climate. My "yes" vote in support of President Obama's American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and last week's the introduction of the "Minority Business Enhancement Act of 2009" (H.R. 2299) are designed to provide greater access to financial assistance for small businesses attempting to weather the storm in these economic times." # # #
05.09.2009	CHICAGO – On Saturday, May 9, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) will host an urgent town hall meeting from 12 noon. to 2 p.m. where he will question the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on why the Village of Crestwood continued to give its residents contaminated tap water despite being warned the source of the water was polluted with a cancer-causing toxin. The meeting will be held in the auditorium of Oak Forest Hospital, 15900 Cicero Avenue, Oak Forest, IL. In addition to Crestwood residents, participants include USPEA representatives Tinka Hyde, director of the water division in Region 5, and Thomas Poy, chief groundwater and drinking water branch of the agency: IEPA Director Douglas P. Scott, Chief Toxicologist Dr. Tom Hornshaw and Deputy Manager, Division of Public Water Rick Cobb; CDC Senior Environmental health Scientist Mark Johnson of the agency’s Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Citizens will also have the opportunity to question government officials. On April 20 Rush called for a federal investigation the Village of Crestwood to determine if civil or criminal charges are warranted against the municipality after learning more than 51 million gallons of toxic water annually was knowingly pumped into citizen’s homes for more than 20 years. The action resulted in a raid nine days later in which more than a dozen federal agents raided city facilities and seized documents. Previously, the congressman, himself a cancer survivor, listened to hundreds of distraught and outraged Crestwood residents unsatisfied with the level of response from village officials. More than 600 people attended a meeting at Moraine Valley Church in neighboring Palos Heights, including Tricia Krause, whom Rep. Rush hailed as a hero for her efforts to expose the issue. The single mother worked tirelessly for years to expose Crestwood’s water problems and with the help of environmental reporter Michael Hawthorne finally helped turn the tide toward justice. "The government is supposed to protect its people but in this case it appears the Village of Crestwood did the complete opposite," Rush said. "Tricia Krause is an American hero for being brave enough, strong enough and persistent enough to expose this environmental travesty and get justice for the people of Crestwood. I intend to use the full weight of my office to see that justice is served and that this never happens in another U.S. city." In an April 20 letter to USEPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Rush demanded a full accounting of the condition of the water in Crestwood. Days later he contacted U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and the CDC to expand the investigation to include both legal and health remedies. The congressman has not ruled out a congressional hearing in Washington, D.C. ###
05.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) introduced a piece of legislation designed to tear down the wall of economic barriers that prevent minority- and women-owned businesses from fully participating in the American dream. H.R. 2299, the "Minority Business Enhancement Act of 2009" (MBE), is a bill that will amend the Small Business Act to allow for greater participation in the Disadvantaged Business Assistance Program while also elevating the federal, small business procurement goal for all federally designated U. S. small businesses to a permanent, new level of 25 percent."In 2009, our nation should no longer be talking about business and entrepreneurial opportunity in racial or gender terms. Success and creativity are not determined by birth, race or gender but, rather, by intelligence, true grit and the capacity to think outside the box. Our nation is full of stories of those who've risen to entrepreneurial success when the odds were stacked against them. Think of the legendary Chicago entrepreneur John Johnson, the founder of Ebony magazine. He benefited from a collateralized loan of $500 that he gained through help from his mother who believed in his dream that positive stories of the African American experience could uplift the souls of those who our government, at that time, had largely pushed to the side. The bill I've introduced, today, is designed to level the playing field once and for all so that motivated men and women today—regardless of race, gender or class—might look, for instance, at a failing news industry and re-imagine it in 21st century terms. This bill is dedicated to those who dare to dream and my job, as a legislator, is to do all I can to help them get there."MBE is a bill that was introduced with 25 original co-sponsors. Specifically, this legislation seeks to amend four important elements of the Small Business Act (SBA) as follows:Title I. Disadvantaged Business EnhancementRaise the Personal Net Worth (PNW) limit to as much as $1.5 million to meet inflation and current economic norms for personal wealthEliminate the 9-year limit for businesses to participate in the program, a provision that will allow firms to complete a federal contract before losing assistance from the programTitle II. Surety Bonding ImprovementPermanently raises the SBA Surety Bond Guarantee to $5 million, a provision that maintains this new, higher standard set by the Obama Administration when it was adopted, this year, as part of the FY 09 economic stimulus packageMBE would also give the SBA Administrator the authority to raise the limit to $10 million if circumstances dictateAmends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to make this higher standard permanentTitle III. Removing the Barriers to ContractsAmends the Small Business Act to redefine the term "bundled contract" as a contract entered into to meet procurement requirements that are consolidated in a bundling of contract requirements, without regard to its designation by the procuring agency or whether a study of the effects of the solicitation on civilian or military personnel has been madeAllows the SBA Administrator to review possibly bundled contracts and to request that the solicitation process be delayed for no more than 10 days to allow for SBA recommendations to be madeAllows the Office of Management and Budget to mediate any bundling disputes between the SBA and the agency awarding the contractTitle IV. Contracting Goals and Reporting RequirementsIncreases the government-wide small business procurement contract goal from 23% to 25%Increases from 5% to 10% the government-wide procurement goal for small, disadvantaged businesses and women-owned businessesProhibits contracting officers from coding a minority business in any more than one other minority categoryLimits the coding to no more than two categoriesRequires the GAO to conduct a contracting disparity study and to report back to Congress no later than October 1, 2010A list of the original co-sponsors of this legislation is as follows:Rep Barrow, John [D-GA-12]Rep Brown, Corrine [D-FL-3]Rep Clarke, Yvette D. [D-NY-11]Rep Clay, Wm. Lacy [D-MO-1]Rep Cleaver, Emanuel [D-MO-5]Rep Clyburn, James E. [D-SC-6]Rep Cohen, Steve [D-TN-9]Rep Crowley, Joseph [D-NY-7]Rep Cummings, Elijah E. [D-MD-7]Rep Edwards, Donna F. [D-MD-4]Rep Fudge, Marcia L. [D-OH-11]Rep Israel, Steve [D-NY-2]Rep Jackson-Lee, Sheila [D-TX-18]Rep Johnson, Henry C. "Hank," Jr. [D-GA-4]Rep Kaptur, Marcy [D-OH-9]Rep Langevin, James R. [D-RI-2]Rep Lee, Barbara [D-CA-9]Rep McDermott, Jim [D-WA-7]Rep Moore, Dennis [D-KS-3]Rep Ortiz, Solomon P. [D-TX-27]Rep Perlmutter, Ed [D-CO-7]Rep Ross, Mike [D-AR-4]Rep Tauscher, Ellen O. [D-CA-10]Rep Towns, Edolphus [D-NY-10]Rep Weiner, Anthony D. [D-NY-9]# # #
05.06.2009	Rush introduces comprehensive U.S.-Cuba trade bill with a diverse group of 47 original co-sponsors Rush calls H.R. 2272 a thoughtful, comprehensive approach that will help shepherd in the dawn of a normalized trade relationship with Cuba WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), introduced a sweeping piece of legislation aimed at tearing down the historic economic wall that prevents the United States and Cuba from engaging in open, free trade and enterprise while also providing for the unfettered ability of Americans to travel between the two nations. "My hopes for the people of the nation of Cuba are reflected, in many ways, by the diverse array of Congressional leaders who have joined me in introducing legislation, today, that will put an end to an outdated set of American policies that no longer reflect the new and evolving relationship between our two countries," said Rush, who also serves as the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "My view is similar to that of our President as I firmly believe that American democracy and free enterprise, coupled with the strong bonds of family that currently unite our two nations, will allow us to help create a vibrant economy for all of the people of Cuba. In addition, removing Cuba from the so-called terrorist watch list will enable U.S. and international relief organizations to provide significant financial resources that will help those who have or are continuing to suffer under the vestiges of a failed, communist regime." H.R. 2272, "The United States - Cuba Trade Normalization Act of 2009," includes several important measures that, combined, will normalize trade between the two nations. Specifically, the bill: lifts current restrictions on trade and other relations with Cuba authorizes American telecommunications carriers to install, maintain, and repair telecommunications equipment, services, and facilities in Cuba authorizes travel to and from Cuba to all individuals, citizens or residents of the United States. authorizes all transactions ordinarily incident to travel in Cuba authorizes normal banking relations between the U.S. and Cuba authorizes direct mail delivery to Cuba authorizes the President to negotiate and settle all property claims of U.S. nationals against the government of Cuba extends non-discriminatory trade treatment to Cuba allows unlimited monetary remittances to Cuba removes Cuba from State Sponsors terrorism list A list of the 47 original co-sponsors follows. # # # ORIGINAL CO-SPONSORS OF H.R. 2272Unites States-Cuba Trade Normalization Act of 2009 Rep Abercrombie, Neil [D-HI-1] - 5/6/2009 Rep Bishop, Sanford D., Jr. [D-GA-2] - 5/6/2009 Rep Brady, Robert A. [D-PA-1] - 5/6/2009 Rep Capuano, Michael E. [D-MA-8] - 5/6/2009 Rep Clarke, Yvette D. [D-NY-11] - 5/6/2009 Rep Clay, Wm. Lacy [D-MO-1] - 5/6/2009 Rep Cleaver, Emanuel [D-MO-5] - 5/6/2009 Rep Clyburn, James E. [D-SC-6] - 5/6/2009 Rep Cohen, Steve [D-TN-9] - 5/6/2009 Rep Conyers, John, Jr. [D-MI-14] - 5/6/2009 Rep Costello, Jerry F. [D-IL-12] - 5/6/2009 Rep Cummings, Elijah E. [D-MD-7] - 5/6/2009 Rep Davis, Danny K. [D-IL-7] - 5/6/2009 Rep Delahunt, William D. [D-MA-10] - 5/6/2009 Rep Ellison, Keith [D-MN-5] - 5/6/2009 Rep Farr, Sam [D-CA-17] - 5/6/2009 Rep Fattah, Chaka [D-PA-2] - 5/6/2009 Rep Filner, Bob [D-CA-51] - 5/6/2009 Rep Frank, Barney [D-MA-4] - 5/6/2009 Rep Fudge, Marcia L. [D-OH-11] - 5/6/2009 Rep Green, Al [D-TX-9] - 5/6/2009 Rep Hinchey, Maurice D. [D-NY-22] - 5/6/2009 Rep Johnson, Eddie Bernice [D-TX-30] - 5/6/2009 Rep Johnson, Henry C. "Hank," Jr. [D-GA-4] - 5/6/2009 Rep Kaptur, Marcy [D-OH-9] - 5/6/2009 Rep Kildee, Dale E. [D-MI-5] - 5/6/2009 Rep Kilpatrick, Carolyn C. [D-MI-13] - 5/6/2009 Rep Kucinich, Dennis J. [D-OH-10] - 5/6/2009 Rep Lee, Barbara [D-CA-9] - 5/6/2009 Rep Lewis, John [D-GA-5] - 5/6/2009 Rep Matsui, Doris O. [D-CA-5] - 5/6/2009 Rep McDermott, Jim [D-WA-7] - 5/6/2009 Rep Meeks, Gregory W. [D-NY-6] - 5/6/2009 Rep Moore, Gwen [D-WI-4] - 5/6/2009 Rep Neal, Richard E. [D-MA-2] - 5/6/2009 Rep Payne, Donald M. [D-NJ-10] – 5/6/2009 Rep Rangel, Charles B. [D-NY-15] - 5/6/2009 Rep Richardson, Laura [D-CA-37] - 5/6/2009 Rep Schakowsky, Janice D. [D-IL-9] - 5/6/2009 Rep Scott, David [D-GA-13] - 5/6/2009 Rep Serrano, Jose E. [D-NY-16] - 5/6/2009 Rep Stupak, Bart [D-MI-1] - 5/6/2009 Rep Towns, Edolphus [D-NY-10] - 5/6/2009 Rep Velazquez, Nydia M. [D-NY-12] - 5/6/2009 Rep Waters, Maxine [D-CA-35] - 5/6/2009 Rep Watt, Melvin L. [D-NC-12] - 5/6/2009 Rep Woolsey, Lynn C. [D-CA-6] - 5/6/2009
05.06.2009	CHICAGO - Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush said the following upon learning of the deaths of two long-time Hyde Park residents and civil rights champions former Alderman Leon Despres and civil rights activist Sam Ackerman: "I am saddened to learn of the death of former Ald. Leon Despres who was voice for the voiceless, a champion for those too weak to fight and a consistent defender of freedom. Leon was always on the right side of history and he used his tremendous gifts to lift the boats stuck on the bottom. We had Leon for more than a century. Now he has returned to God. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and all of those who loved him. "Likewise, Sam Ackerman knew what Dr. King meant when he preached we should judge people by the content of their character rather than the color of their skin. He devoted his life to working to make America live up to its promise of freedom, justice and equality for all. Chicago will always be grateful for Sam's commitment and he will be missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family." # # #
05.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) praised President Barack Obama for his nomination of Inez Moore Tenenbaum to serve as Chairman and Robert S. Adler to serve as Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the federal agency charged with protecting the public from risks of injury or death associated with thousands of consumer products manufactured in the U.S. and abroad. He also commended the President for adding $107 million in urgently needed revenue for this vital consumer protection agency. "I am very pleased with the caliber of nominees that President Obama has made to lead what I believe will be an aggressive effort to revitalize and strengthen this important federal agency," said Rush who, as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, has oversight responsibility for the CPSC. Last year, Rush presided over an effective, bipartisan legislative process that led to the enactment of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (CPSIA). However, this year, he has voiced repeated frustration with the lackluster efforts by current CPSC leadership to effectively implement this law aimed, in part, at strengthening CPSC's ability to quickly remove hazardous products from store shelves. On February 3, Rush joined other top House and Senate leaders in calling for the Acting CPSC Chair to step down and for President Obama to name new leadership as soon as possible. "I believe, strongly, in the commitment of those dedicated men and women at the CPSC who wake up each day with the goal of doing right by the American people. Today's move by the President is a welcome shot in the arm for a beleaguered agency that our nation relies on to, literally, serve as the first line of defense in keeping hazardous products out of the hands of children and unsuspecting families. With the new leadership the President has named, today, coupled with a 71 percent increase in resources for the current budget, the President has effectively begun the arduous task of returning this important agency to its rightful place of strength and advocacy on behalf of the American people." Tenenbaum hails from South Carolina with a background that includes being elected to serve for two terms as the State's Superintendent of Education. Adler is a nationally recognized consumer product safety expert and, currently, serves as a professor of legal studies at the University of North Carolina and the Luther H. Hodges, Jr. Scholar in Law & Ethics at Chapel Hill's Kenan-Flagler Business School. A recipient of teaching awards both within the business school and university-wide, Adler's research and teaching focus on consumer protection, product liability, ethics, regulation and negotiation. # # #
05.05.2009	May 5, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "The subcommittee will come to order. "Today the subcommittee is holding a legislative hearing on two bills: H.R. 1319, the Informed P2P User Act, introduced by two distinguished members of the subcommittee, Ms. Bono-Mack and Mr. Barrow; and H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act, also known as "DATA," introduced by myself and Mr. Stearns. Both bills represent strong, bipartisan efforts to address high-profile problems affecting American consumers. "H.R. 1319, the Informed P2P User Act, addresses the increasingly frequent problem of consumers inadvertently exposing their private, sensitive information by way of peer-to-peer file sharing programs. Too often, when consumers download these programs onto their computers with the intent of sharing and downloading certain files on the network, they are unaware that they are also sharing other files they otherwise want to keep private. For instance, recent media reports have focused on consumers unknowingly sharing their tax returns and social security numbers on P2P networks. Such inadvertent file sharing can be the result of deceptive or misleading disclosures by P2P software companies; or from simple confusion on the part of consumers. Whatever the case, the intent of H.R. 1319 is to provide consumers with the power of informed consent before they download P2P software onto their computers and share folders and files with network participants. "The second bill we will be discussing today is H.R. 2221, the Data Accountability and Trust Act, and this is the third Congress in which this bill has been introduced. Mr. Stearns, as Chairman of this subcommittee in the 109th Congress, originally introduced the bill as H.R. 4127, and with the help of, then, Ranking Member Schakowsky, it eventually passed the full Energy and Commerce Committee by a unanimous vote. "However, no further action was taken on the bill as a result of jurisdictional disputes. In the subsequent 110th Congress, I reintroduced the bill as H.R. 958, but we were unable to take any action. Once again, in the 111th Congress, I have re-introduced the bill with Mr. Stearns, Mr. Barton, Ms. Schakowsky, and Mr. Radanovich as H.R. 2221, with the intent that it eventually becomes law. "H.R. 2221 has two basic components. First, the bill requires that persons possessing electronic data that contain personal information must take steps to ensure that the data is secure. Second, the bill establishes notification procedures that a company must take when a data breach occurs in order to allow affected consumers to protect themselves. Companies do not have to initiate such notices if they determine that "there is no reasonable risk of identity theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct." H.R. 2221 also imposes special requirements on data brokers, but accommodates other laws that govern how certain data brokers are regulated. "I fully appreciate that both bills may need some revision in order to make them stronger and more effective. While this is not the first time we are taking up data security, and H.R. 2221 already reflects significant changes forged by compromises made in the 109th Congress, the bill may be dated and in need of an update. From now until mark-up, I pledge to not only work with my friends on the other side of the aisle in a bipartisan fashion, but to receive input from all affected stakeholders, including those represented by the witnesses at this table, in order to craft legislation that is protective, but smart. This subcommittee has a long, distinguished history of bipartisan cooperation, and I expect that reputation to be at work with both of these bills. "Finally, I want to announce my intent to hold a joint hearing on consumer privacy with Chairman Boucher and the subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet and work on comprehensive legislation. Today's hearing is part of a larger process in crafting a bill that protects American consumers from their increasing inability to control how their private information is used in commerce. "I yield back the balance of my time." # # #
05.04.2009	CHICAGO – 1st District Congressman Bobby L. Rush is pleased to announce a unique partnership with the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE ®) to provide free, innovative counseling services to district entrepreneurs and small business owners. The program is part of Rep. Rush's three-prong effort to encourage district wide economic development, job creation and economic opportunity to offset the impact of the nation’s economic woes. His congressional office is the only member of the Illinois delegation to offer SCORE/Chicago's services directly to district constituents. Counseling services will be conducted on Wednesdays in Rush's Chicago office at 700-706 E. 79th Street, and on Thursdays in the Midlothian location at 3235 W. 147th Street. Clients can make an appointment by calling SCORE/Chicago at (312) 353-7724 or by visiting www.scorechicago.org. "In these severe economic times it is important to develop creative partnerships to assist our businesses restore fiscal responsibility, grow their companies and create much-needed jobs," said Rep. Rush. "I am pleased to partner with SCORE/Chicago to offer this unique service." SCORE/Chicago is a nonprofit association dedicated to entrepreneur education and the formation, growth and success of small businesses. The Chicago Chapter of SCORE provides counseling, workshops and other resources to entrepreneurs and small business through 25 locations in Cook and Lake Counties. # # #
05.04.2009	CHICAGO – Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) urged caution about growing concern about the U.S. outbreak of swine influenza (H1N1); and, he also said he is working with state and federal health and emergency preparedness officials to ensure the poor and uninsured in his district are able to receive the medical care if infected. Last week, the World Health Organization (WHO) raised the pandemic alert level to the second-highest, Phase 5, signifying that a pandemic is imminent and that countries should make preparations for the disease. According to the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), 99 H1N1 probable cases have been reported in Illinois, 286 cases across the United States and 1,000 incidents worldwide. News of the virus outbreak comes as the nation grapples with an economic crisis. More than a quarter of a million people in Chicago are expected to be classified as poor by year’s end, according to a new report released by the Heartland Alliance. "I have been in touch with the IDPH, the Centers for Disease Control and WHO to ensure a plan is in place to ensure low-income people have access to vaccines and treatment in the event of a widespread outbreak of a the pandemic," Rush said. "With emergency rooms already overburden it is important that those most vulnerable and who lack resources are not considered as an afterthought during a national emergency. "It is important that people do not panic," Rush continued, "and that they continue take precautions to protect themselves and reduce the risk to households as they wound during any flu season." H1N1 is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by Type A influenza viruses. The symptoms of swine flu in people are similar to the symptoms of regular human flu and include fever, cough, sore throat, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue. Some people have reported diarrhea and vomiting associated with the virus. In the past, severe illness (pneumonia and respiratory failure) and deaths have been reported with swine flu infection in people. Like seasonal flu, swine flu may cause a worsening of underlying chronic medical conditions. Citizens are encouraged to use common sense and utilize preventive measures to protect your health: Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it. Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially after you cough or sneeze. Alcohol-based hand cleaners are also effective. Try to avoid close contact with sick people. If you get sick with influenza stay home from work or school and limit contact with others to keep from infecting them. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. For more information about H1N1 and emergency alerts, please visit https://www.house.gov/rush/. ###
04.29.2009	CHICAGO – One of the most profound questions Jesus asked during his ministry was put before a sick man who had spent 38 years waiting near the base of the Bethesda well for his turn at treatment. "Do you want to get well?" Jesus queried, as the man lay surrounded by other broken, paralyzed, blind, mentally and spiritually infirmed people waiting for his turn to be healed. Today, the man from this story could be any one of America's poor or uninsured who lay in wait within the nation's many overburdened hospital emergency rooms. It is only because of faith and perseverance that I am not one of them. As a recovering cancer patient, I have experienced first hand the life-saving work of physicians, nurses and other health care workers who are able to focus on restoring a person's health rather than being saddled by administrative policy and financial restrictions. Recently, a hospital in my district has come under fire for reportedly engaging in a deplorable practice known as "patient dumping," the inhumane exercise of turning away poor, uninsured and elderly patients to other facilities, refusing to administer care due to overcrowding and other obstacles. It should be no surprise that a majority of the patients being turned away are poor, and often people of color. This practice is even more startling when you consider the fact that six hospitals have closed on Chicago's South Side, placing an enormous burden on any hospital whose doors are still open, with thousands of people depending on fewer hospitals, atop the over-restrictive nature of an already broken healthcare system. Nearly 47 million Americans are without health insurance. Since the beginning of the recession, an estimated 4 million additional Americans have lost their health insurance. On average, 14,000 Americans lose their coverage every day. Where then do these citizens go, and to whom do they turn when they need to get well? Are they condemned to suffer silently, waiting for 38 years like the man at the foot of the Bethesda well? Health care reform is the single most important domestic issue facing our nation. In 2007, we spent $2.2 trillion on health care (16 percent of its gross domestic product). This is why expanding coverage and making insurance affordable has been one of my top priorities since taking office in 1993. We are increasingly becoming a nation of the "have-mores" versus the "have-nots"— the invisible people who linger on the margins of society as they seek the American Dream. This is why I have co-sponsored the "Access to Emergency Medical Services Act of 2009" (H.R.1188/S.468), and am an original cosponsor to H.R. 1678, both of which will improve access, quality and efficiency of emergency care. I also sponsored a pioneering piece of health legislation called the Melanie Blocker Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act (H.R.20/S.324). This bill will provide immediate attention and resources toward one of the most under diagnosed conditions after childbirth. The measure has already passed the House, and is on its way to becoming law. And increased funding for cancer research, heart disease, stroke, and other medical conditions is and will continue to be at the top of my healthcare priority list. There is growing support for my Medicare bill (H.R. 444), which will expand the federal discount drug program to make it easier for the under-insured and low-income patients to access the medication they need. These efforts, amongst many others I am supporting in Congress to improve the nation's healthcare system, are just a small piece of the healthcare reform puzzle that must be put together. And I urge all of you to call on your elected officials to get engaged in these issues as well. President Obama and Congress have made it a top priority to pass comprehensive health care reform legislation this year that lowers costs, improves quality, increases coverage and preserves patient choice of plan and doctors. Left alone, our broken healthcare system will cost the American people another $2.2 trillion by 2018. We need reform now. Families cannot wait. America cannot wait. When it comes to U.S. health care reform, lawmakers can no longer act like Sisyphus, a man condemned to forever roll a ball up a never ending hill, moving forward but never making progress. It is time for America's health care system to answer the question, "Do we want to get well?" ### U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush is the congressman representing the 1st Congressional District of Illinois and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. For more information on his Healthcare and other initiatives, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
04.29.2009	CHICAGO -- Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) commended the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for conducting a raid on the Village of Crestwood. Investigators from the Environmental Criminal Division of the EPA along with local law enforcement agencies and U.S. Coast Guard, raided Crestwood Village Hall, 13840 S. Cicero Ave., and the town's public works department. On May 9th he will convene a town hall meeting at Oak Forest Hospital, 15900 Cicero Ave. with Crestwood residents where the USEPA will be on hand to answer questions. "I commend the USEPA for its swift action today. At the request of the USEPA the U.S. Attorney’s Office obtained search warrants for the village. I was briefed on the raid this morning by USPEA officials after I communicated to USEAP Administrator Lisa Jackson last week that the agency needed launch a thorough investigation," Rep. Rush said. "I also requested on Monday that Atty. General Eric Holder engage the U.S. Department of Justice in this matter-- and I am pleased to see that they are involved. We want the truth to come out on this matter and we want the Crestwood residents to be made whole."
04.27.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– "The subcommittee will come to order. I want to thank the Members of the subcommittee for participating in the first trade hearing on Cuba in the 111th Congress. "I recently visited Cuba with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus. We met with President Raul Castro, and CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee and I personally met with former Cuban President Fidel Castro. A lot has been said and written about that trip to Cuba and about that meeting. "Because of travel restrictions, many Americans don't know what Cuba has become. What I witnessed there compelled me to call this hearing to assess U.S. trade policies towards Cuba. "I believe our current trade policy with Cuba is a failure. We must re-evaluate our trade policy's impact on both the American and the Cuban people. "I strongly believe that expanding and diversifying our exports to Cuba will be beneficial for both countries. Some argue the current embargo should be maintained as a political tool that has proved to be effective, as was the case with South Africa. However, the current embargo on Cuba is not a multi-lateral one, and we are in a different political and economic context today. Unilateral sanctions are usually problematic and ineffective. "Cuba has opened its doors to the entire world and the world has walked in. All nations in the Americas, except the United States, have resumed diplomatic relations with Cuba. All of our economic competitors, including China, Brazil, Mexico, Japan, Canada and the European Union are currently trading with Cuba. "Cuba has also made it clear that the same doors are open to the U.S., and our policies should not prevent American companies from doing business with the Cuban people. We are looking for new markets to penetrate. Our companies want to compete globally and our unemployed workers want jobs. Now is not the time to ignore all of the opportunities that are presented to us, and I believe Cuba should be treated like our other trading partners with similar political and economic conditions. "Liberalizing trade with Cuba is not without precedent and has already proven beneficial to both the United States and the Cuban people. In 2000, when I and other members of Congress voted to approve a modest opening of trade, the overall exports to Cuba rose from $7 million in 2001 to $404 million in 2004. However, the "cash in advance" rule initiated by the previous Administration in 2005 has complicated an already difficult process and has caused Cuba to cut back on imports from the U.S. Nonetheless, since 2001, the United States has been Cuba's largest supplier of food and agricultural products, with almost $2.7 billion in total sales. "Having said all this, I am not naïve, nor am I blind to Cuba's challenges. It is undeniable that Cuba has serious political, economic, financial and social problems. Like many developing countries, Cuba has many regulatory hurdles. To be sure, political and economic reform must be initiated by Havana inside Cuba's borders. However, it is also undeniable that some progress has been made, and that the embargo, in many instances, has actually increased the suffering of the very people we are trying to assist. "Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, approximately 28 nations have undergone transitions from communist regimes. Countries that were less isolated from the West achieved more successful and prosperous democracies than those that were isolated. I believe that Cuba can make a similar transformation if we fully integrate the island nation in the global community. "I commend President Obama for his leadership in easing the current restrictions on Cuba. This is the first step in the right direction. I support a more rapid move towards normalization of our trading relationship with Cuba. Today's hearing is just the beginning of a series of steps I intend to take to do all I can to both open up markets for U.S. commerce––especially for small, minority- and women-owned businesses--while also helping to bring liberty and prosperity to the Cuban people. "I yield back the balance of my time." NOTE: You may also view this hearing, in its entirety, through the Energy and Commerce website through the linc below: https://energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1595:energy-and-commerce-subcommittee-hearing-on-examining-the-status-of-us-trade-with-cuba-and-its-impact-on-economic-growth&catid=129:subcommittee-on-commerce-trade-and-consumer-protection&Itemid=70
04.27.2009	CHICAGO ––Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate the Village of Crestwood to determine if civil or criminal charges are warranted against the municipality after learning more than 51 million gallons of toxic water was knowingly pumped into citizen's homes for more than 20 years. More than 11,000 citizens in the south suburban community drank poisoned tap water from a well operated by the village even though the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had deemed groundwater contaminated by chemicals, including vinyl chloride, a dry-cleaning solvent. "I am requesting the Department of Justice conduct a formal, full-fledged investigation in order to determine any civil or criminal violations on the part of the Village of Crestwood," Rep. Rush said in a letter delivered to Justice this afternoon. "...I want to ensure the responsible parties in this case are indeed held accountable." In the meantime, Rush is planning to hold an official town hall meeting where USEPA officials are expected to attend. The meeting will be held May 9 beginning at noon at Oak Forest Hospital. The venue was chosen outside of Crestwood to accommodate a large audience. On Saturday, April 25, the congressman listened to hundreds of Crestwood residents unsatisfied with the level of response they've received from the Village's mayor. More than 600 people attended a meeting at Moraine Valley Church in neighboring Palos Heights, including Tricia Krause, whom Rep. Rush hailed as a hero for her efforts to expose the issue. "The government is supposed to protect its people but in this case it appears the Village of Crestwood did the complete opposite," Rush said. "Tricia Krause is an American hero for being brave enough, strong enough and persistent enough to expose this environmental travesty and get justice for the people of Crestwood. I intend to use the full weight of my office to see that justice is served and that this never happens in another U.S. city. " In an April 20 letter to USEPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Rush demanded a full accounting of the condition of the water in Crestwood. The congressman has not ruled out a congressional hearing in Washington, D.C. ### EDITOR'S NOTE: DOJ Letter Attached
04.24.2009	CHICAGO ––Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) will listen to citizens from the Village of Crestwood who are concerned about being their exposed to poisonous drinking water for nearly two decades during a 4 p.m. town hall meeting on Saturday, April 25, at Moraine Valley Church, 6300 W. 127th Street in Palos Heights. A coalition of Crestwood parents, concerned citizens and cancer survivors were instrumental in arranging the meeting. Earlier this week, Rep. Rush expressed outraged at learning more than 11,000 citizens in the Village of Crestwood drank poisoned tap water from a well operated by the village. According to recent reports, residents were exposed to perchloroethylene (PCE), a chemical linked to cancer, liver damage and neurological problems and linked to a local dry cleaner. "I am incensed to learn through the media these taxpayers and their children have been exposed to toxic water mixed with water from Lake Michigan," Rush said after learning of the issue. "This was a deceitful act and someone must be held accountable" In a letter to USEPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Rush demanded a full accounting of the condition of the water in Crestwood. He began representing the middle-class community in 2002. "As the duly elected federal representative of the citizens of Crestwood, I am appalled that this situation has not been brought to my attention by the responsible federal and local government agencies," he wrote. "Therefore I am requesting an informational meeting with you this week regarding the content and context of any federal involvement." The congressman has not ruled out an official hearing on the matter or seeking additional federal intervention.
04.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –– On the eve of the bi-annual meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund Bi-Annual General Assembly in Washington, D.C., U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) hosted two, high profile meetings of foreign dignitaries, trade representatives and top U.S. elected and appointed officials to mark the launch of the African Partnership for Economic Empowerment Caucus (APEEC), a group that Rush spearheaded in forming in partnership with U. S. Rep. Donald Payne (NJ-10). The day began with Rush providing welcoming remarks at a morning gathering that featured a sterling array of African and American diplomats and business leaders, including His Excellency Namadi Sambo, Executive Governor of Kaduna State, Nigeria. Rush, who chairs the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, began his remarks with these words, "I am very passionate about seizing this unique moment in history to do all we can to link the economic interests of the United States and Africa. I take seriously the 'trade' mandate of the subcommittee I chair and I want to bring that work into focus in a way that makes a difference in the lives of the people of the United States and, especially, on behalf of the people I serve in my Chicago district," said Rush. The morning event, hosted by a coalition of national trade organizations convened by Ufo Eric-Atuanya of Rimsom Associates, marked the beginning of a working group on African trade. Their goal, in part, is to ensure that leaders and entrepreneurs from the continent of Africa have their voices heard on a variety of economic policy issues as part of the unfolding trade and economic policy agenda between the United States and Africa. Later that evening, in a capacity crowd in the U. S. Capitol Visitor Center attended by U. S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, Rush was the featured speaker at a reception hosted by the Business Council for International Understanding, a leading international trade association committed to fostering and strengthening ties between U. S. business and international markets. In brief, but lively remarks, Rush said this, "Through the course of last year's presidential campaign, a clarion cry went forth that said, 'yes we can.' I stand before you this evening determined to take that statement to the next level by saying, 'now we must!' "I've got enormous jurisdiction on international trade but it's never really been utilized. Rather than being a back bencher, with vim and vigor I have decided to develop an international trade initiative. It's not our intention to try to initiate bilateral or multi-lateral agreements. That falls under the jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee. "But we can be involved in international trade promotion. I really believe that if, in fact, we can develop a common agenda with respect to U. S. trade with Africa, then it can be mutually beneficial. My district is one of the poorest in the nation. If I'm going to deliver effectively on job creation, then I've got to look beyond the borders of the United States. I want the citizens of my district to understand that they are, in fact, citizens of the world. That's what I want to promote. "I am so pleased that all of you are here, this evening, taking the position that Africa has real specific issues that will not get discussed or moved to the front of the agenda unless we are part of the solution for that discussion. I believe that as Africa improves itself politically and economically, I believe that the littlest children can take their place as leaders of the entire world." # # # (WASHINGTON, Apr. 23, 2009) - Rush addresses a morning session on trade policy between the U. S. and Africa at a forum at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C. Shown, here, left to right, is Rush trade counsel Angelle Kwemo; Claude Fontheim, Senior Advisor, Business Council for Global Development ; His Excellency Namadi Sambo Executive Governor, Kaduna State, Nigeria; Ufo Eric-Atuanya, Managing Partner, Rimson Associates and Dr. Willene Johnson, President, Komanza, Inc. and former U. S. Executive Director for the African Development Bank. (WASHINGTON, Apr. 23, 2009) - Rush greets United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk at an evening reception at the U. S. Capitol Visitor Center that marked the launch of the African Partnership for Economic Empowerment Caucus (APEEC), a group launched by Rep. Rush and U. S. Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ). (WASHINGTON, Apr. 23, 2009) – After Rush spoke to invited guests at the evening reception in the Visitor Center, Peter Tichansky, President and CEO of the Business Council for International Understanding, the host of the evening event, invited him back to the podium where they engaged in dialogue about how to strengthen the economic ties between the United States and Africa.
04.22.2009	CHICAGO -- Today, U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (Il-01) encouraged all Americans to commemorate Earth Day, the annual U.S. celebration of the environment by encouraging Americans to commit to environmental volunteerism and the creation of green jobs."As we honor the earth, I encourage all Americans to commit to improving the environment of their communities by volunteering, recycling and creating strategies to make our neighborhoods safe and healthy places for our children," Rep. Rush said. "I remain committed to sustainable energy usage and healthful living practices. I support renewable energy alternatives, the movement for food access in America’s food deserts and the creation of green collar jobs. The earth gives so much to its inhabitants and it is important for its inhabitants to give something back to the earth."Rep. Rush created the Good Greens Festival, a groundbreaking event aimed at launching a newmovement to engage African Americans in the issues of food access, health, and green economy jobs in Chicago and throughout the United States. The event is expected to be held for a second year in September 2009.# # #
04.21.2009	CHICAGO -- U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush is seeking submissions for the "An Artistic Discovery" annual Congressional High School Arts Competition from eligible students from the 1st Congressional District of Illinois. Any student at a public or private high school, including alternative or vocational schools, in the 1st Congressional District is eligible to submit a work of art by 5 p.m. on May 15, 2009.The competition is a yearly event held in each of the 435 Congressional Districts, including the 1st Congressional District in Illinois. It highlights the importance of art education by recognizing outstanding talented young artists in their districts. The winning entries are exhibited for a year in a display in the U.S. Capitol.Artwork must be two-dimensional (no sculpture) and can be in any medium, including painting, drawing, collage, print, mixed media, computer generated or photography, no larger then 30'' by 30'' to the outside dimensions of the frame and it must be ready to hang. It can be mailed or hand delivered to Anton Seals, district programs coordinator, at 1st Congressional District of Illinois, 700-706 E. 79th Street, Chicago, Il 60619.A panel of judges will select the winning submission and the winner will be announced at special event on May 29 in Chicago. This student's art will represent the 1st Congressional District in the nationwide exhibit at the U.S. Capitol. For more information call 773-224-6500. PHOTO CAPTION: Artwork by Phillips High School student Jovan Smith (left) winner of the 2008annual Congressional High School Arts Competition is shown with Gallery Guichard owner, Andre Guichard, in Bronzeville.###
04.21.2009	CHICAGO -- U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL.) and members of his Advisory Council on Asian Affairs will recognize the dedication and hard work of individuals, community organizations and media in Illinois’ Asian-American community during a gala reception in recognition of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month on Friday, May 8, from 5:30pm until 8:00pm at the Ralph Metcalfe Federal Building, 3rd Floor, Room 331, 77 West Jackson Blvd. This is the 11th year the congressman has hosted this special event. "In honor of the 2009 Asian Pacific American Heritage Month I am pleased to acknowledge the important work being done on behalf of Asian American community in Illinois," Rep. Rush said. "We can all take pride in the enormous progress and many positive contributions the Asian American community has made in the arts, business, education, medicine, technology and sciences in the United States. I am extremely honored to have this opportunity to acknowledge their contributions to American history and progress." Invited guests will also be treated to an Economic Exhibition Corridor where federal, state and city agencies will provide information about stimulus funding priorities and contract opportunities available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The consul generals of China, Japan, India, Korea, Philippine, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand and some of the non-Asian consul generals like British, South Africa, Canada, Germany, France have been invited along with various community based organizations and government agencies. Rep. Rush is the only member who has created this council represented by the representatives from Bangladesh, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Korea, Laotian, Malaysia, Philippine, Pakistan, Thailand, Vietnam and Taiwan. The event is open to the general public and credentialed media. # # #
04.20.2009	CHICAGO –– Today, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) expressed outraged at learning over 11,000 citizens in the Village of Crestwood drank poisoned tap water from a well operated by the village fore more than 20 years. According to recent reports, residents were exposed to perchloroethylene (PCE), a chemical linked to cancer, liver damage and neurological problems and linked to a local dry cleaner. A letter obtained from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (ILEPA) determined two years ago that Crestwood citizens were being exposed to poisoned water, however, the village reportedly took no action to officially close the well until March 20 of this year. Residents were exposed to 51 million gallons of contaminated water each year. "I am incensed to learn through the media these taxpayers and their children have been exposed to toxic water mixed with water from Lake Michigan," Rush said. "This was a deceitful act and someone must be held accountable. What did the village leadership know and when did they know it---and at what point did state agencies step in to enforce their findings. Why were residents still consuming PCE as late as March 2007?" In a letter to USEPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Rush demanded a full accounting of the condition of the water in Crestwood. He began representing the middle-class community in 2002. "As the duly elected federal representative of the citizens of Crestwood, I am appalled that this situation has not been brought to my attention by the responsible federal and local government agencies," he wrote. "Therefore I am requesting an informational meeting with you this week regarding the content and context of any federal involvement." The congressman has not ruled out possible hearings on the matter. ### EDITOR'S NOTE: Download Copy of USEPA letter.
04.16.2009	CHICAGO –– Today, Chairman Bobby L. Rush shared with his constituents a copy of a communiqué, signed by 47 leading members of the U. S. House of Representatives, that will be hand delivered to the President, this week, as he attends the Fifth Summit of the Americas, April 17 – 19, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.In a letter to the President signed by members as diverse as Reps. Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Donald Payne (D-NJ), Barney Frank (D-MA) and Ron Paul (R-TX), Rush and his colleagues praised the President for a series of steps aimed at removing restrictions on remittances and travel by Cuban Americans to Cuba while also outlining 10 specific steps they believe the Administration should take to move more aggressively toward normalizing trade relations with Cuba. Next week, fresh off the heels of his recent five-day trip to Cuba as part of a Congressional delegation, Rush will preside over the first policy forum in the nation’s capitol on the growing national effort to expand America’s trade relationship with Cuba when he chairs the first hearing on the subject, on Monday, in Washington, D.C. A copy of the bipartisan House letter follows.Read the complete letter # # #
04.15.2009	CHICAGO – Today at 4 p.m., Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) applauded members of the Neighborhood Action Forum for securing a public roll call by Chicago Police Department’s 6th District at 4 p.m. on the corner of 79th Street and Langley in the city’s Park Manor/Chatham neighborhood. The residents believe the roll call illustrates a show of force designed to send a strong message to wayward individuals that residents, business owners and authorities have united to stamp out a crime spree that has recently surged in the community. Recently the area of 79th Street at Cottage Grove has been hit with a rash of shootings, store robberies and assaults. Cong, Rush said, “It is important for the community to see that all of its stakeholders are united in our efforts to not only implement better community policing strategies for our neighborhoods but send a strong message to the criminal-minded element that their field day of illegal activity is over.” ###
04.15.2009	On Tuesday, April 14, nearly 100 leaders from Chicago's Latino American community attended a debriefing with Congressman Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) to hear a report on his recent trip to Cuba. The gathering, hosted by Rev. Slim Coleman and activist, Emma Lozano, was held at Adalberto United Methodist Church, 2716 W. Division Street, in the city's Little Village community.The popular congressman was invited to give his report just days before the U.S. will participate in the fifth Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago where the president will meet with 33 other democratically elected heads of state and government. Cuba, which does not have a democratically chosen leader, was the only country in the hemisphere not invited.In addition to the leaders from Chicago area churches, health care agencies and business, civic, legal and community groups, many Cuban Americans were also in attendance. About 1.5 million Americans have relatives in Cuba.Rep. Rush's remarks, interpreted in Spanish, were interrupted several times by vigorous applause as he discussed the need to end the 50-year-embargo. The U.S. imposed Cuba trade and travel bans after Fidel Castro took power in Havana in 1959. Since 1962, the U.S policy toward Cuba has consisted largely only of isolatimg the Island and its people, through comprehensive economic sanctions, including an embargo on trade and financial transactions."It was appropriate for me to travel to Cuba so we can kill and bury the misconceptions, the bad attitudes, the failed policies of our nation so that a new resurrection can take place—a resurrection where understanding, truth, justice and equality will prevail," Rep. Rush said.Rep. Rush, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, said the Obama Administration's recent decision to lift Cuba travel, remittance and mail restrictions is 'a significant step in the right direction.' The changes will allow Cuban immigrants in the U.S. to visit family members on the island and allow unlimited cash remittances to relatives back home.On April 2 – 7 Rep. Rush joined six other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) on the mission to determine opportunities for expanded trade opportunities for American businesses, is a co-sponsor of H. R. 874, "The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act," legislation that would end the current ban on travel by Americans to Cuba. The congressman was one of three U.S. officials to meet with former Cuban President Fidel Castro. The entire delegation, led by CBC Chair U.S. Rep. Barbara Lee, also met for four hours with President Raul Castro."(The decision to lift certain restrictions) is a significant step in the right direction," Rep. Rush said. "However, we should also explore other opportunities that would serve to stimulate the American economy. We want to expand and create jobs while also increasing tourism. American tourists are America's best ambassadors and a free people must be able to travel freely. Normalizing trade relations with Cuba is in the best interest of both nations, and we look forward to discussing these issues with the administration in order to serve the interests of the American economy."Rep. Rush is slated to conduct congressional hearings on Cuba in late April.Congressman Bobby L. Rush receives a warm welcome as he enters Adalberto United Methodist Church to discuss his recent trip to Cuba as part of a U.S. congressional delegation. Nearly 100 leaders from Chicago's Latino community were joined by Cuban American immigrants to hear the report.
04.13.2009	CHICAGO –– Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, said the Obama administration’s plan to lift travel, remittance, mail and business restrictions relating to the nation of Cuba is ‘a significant step in the right direction.’ The changes will allow Cuban immigrants in the U.S. to visit family members on the island and allow unlimited cash remittances to relatives back home.Rush, who recently embarked on a five-day tour of Cuba along with six other House members to determine opportunities for expanded trade opportunities for American businesses, is a co-sponsor of H. R. 874, “The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act,” legislation that would end the current ban on travel by Americans to Cuba. The congressman was one of three U.S. officials to meet with former Cuban President Fidel Castro.“This is a significant step in the right direction,” Rush said. “However, we should also explore other opportunities that would serve to stimulate the American economy. We want to expand and create jobs while also increasing tourism. American tourists are America’s best ambassadors and a free people must be able to travel freely. Normalizing trade relations with Cuba is in the best interest of both nations, and we look forward to discussing these issues with the administration in order to serve the interests of the American economy.# # #
04.08.2009	CHICAGO - Today, the Chicago District staff of U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush hosted a Subcontractor Opportunity Fair on the campus of the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) to increase minority participation on the construction of the Metra-Rock Island 35th Street Commuter Rail stop in the city's historic Bronzeville neighborhood. The event attracted approximately 100 African American and minority- or women-owned subcontractors to the project for which the Congressman has secured $11.7 million in federal funding. Rep. Rush created the fair to increase minority participation on the project to be lead by the general contractor, John Burns Construction Company, and to ensure that African Americans were fully seated at the table of opportunity. "It is going to take some time for the positive effects of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) to be felt in the communities most impacted by the recession," Rep. Rush said. "It is important that minorities, and particularly African Americans, are seated at the table of opportunity when these shovel-ready projects begin. "Our Bronzeville Metra project will improve transportation and provide access to job opportunities outside of the city," he continued. "It is important that the residents of the 1st Congressional District are able to participate in this multi-faceted construction project. The new ARRA dollars ($7,500,500) will enable us to put more people back to work and help increase African American and minority participation in the building trades in the State of Illinois," said Congressman Rush who was unable to attend today's event as he returned to the U. S., yesterday, from a trade visit to Cuba with other House leaders. Representing Congressman Rush, this morning, was his Chicago District Director, Barbara Holt, who was joined by 3rd Ward Alderman Pat Dowell, Larry Huggins , Metra board member, David Baker, vice President of External Affairs at IIT, Sandi Llano, Metra's DBE director, and D. Michael Higgins, vice president of the John Burns Construction Company. "If it was not for Congressman Rush's efforts and his strong commitment to ensure that a shovel ready project of this size got support in his District, this project would not be here," said Larry Huggins, who also thanked the leadership of John Burns Construction Company for their willingness to be responsive to the economic needs of the people served by Rush in his 1st Congressional District. Today's event came days after the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) released its monthly jobs report for March which showed the share of African Americans with a job has dropped 3.7 percentage points over the course of the recession to 54.1 percent. The last time the employment to population ratio for African Americans was this low was April 1993. The national rate for African American workers is now at 13.3 percent, up 5.4 percentage points from the start of the recession in December 2007. The Congressman's office partnered with Black Contractors United, the premiere minority contracting advocacy organization in Illinois, and other community leaders to identify qualified vendors. Subcontractors were screened for 18 opportunity areas including traffic control, brick paving, demolition, glazing, painting, dam and water proofing, sheet metal roofing and flashing and landscaping among others. Construction and groundbreaking will begin this month. For more information on the project, contact the John Burns Construction Company at 708-326-3325. 1st DISTRICT WORKING: More than 100 subcontractors participated in Cong. Bobby Rush's Subcontractor Opportunity Fair on April 8th at the Illinois Institute of Technology Campus. Participants included (from left) Florence Cox, executive director, Black Contractors United, Melinda Kelly, executive director, Chatham Business Association, Metra Board member Larry Huggins, 1st CD Director Barbara Holt, 3rd Ward Ald. Pat Dowell, David Baker, vice president external affairs, IIT, Sandi Llano, DBE Director for Metra, and Mike Higgins, vice president Burns Construction Company.
04.03.2009	CHICAGO –– As the two-week Congressional District work period gets underway, today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, a newly elected Board member of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation and the Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, embarked on a six-day tour of Cuba, in part, to get a first hand look at expanded trade opportunities for American businesses. "As the current global economic crisis demonstrates, the economic vitality of the United States is inextricably linked to international peace, trade and expanded opportunities for American companies to identify stable markets in which to do business,"said Rush. "I have seen, first hand, the power of a good education and the power of a dream taking root to transform the lives of troubled youth. Those dreams need to be matched with expanded opportunities and that's what I'm looking for as I travel to Cuba over the course of the next week. While I am concerned about human rights issues on the island of Cuba, I'm a witness to the fact that a lot has changed in the world since 1961 when the U.S. trade embargo was first imposed. It's time to take a fresh look at the challenges and opportunities between our two nations and to chart a constructive new path forward."It's been years since an elected, Illinois official of Chairman Rush's stature has traveled to this communist nation as part of a Congressional delegation. Congressman Rush is also a co-sponsor of H. R. 874, "The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act,"legislation that would end the current ban on travel by Americans to Cuba. Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Barbara Lee is leading the delegation along with several other House members from within and outside the caucus.# # #
04.02.2009	{WASHINGTON, D.C. -- This morning, before a packed hearing of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush urged Obama Administration officials responsible for implementing most of the $7.2 billion of new federal resources aimed at expanding America's broadband network to fully comply with his amendment aimed at ensuring equitable participation by women- and minority-owned businesses. In remarks to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) official charged with implementing the Administration's broadband policy, Mark Seifert, Mr. Rush said, "If the stimulus package is going to be as effective as we think and hope it will be, Congress will play an important oversight role in its implementation. I have long insisted that more diversity is needed in this multi-billion dollar industry. I intend to closely monitor how this provision is being implemented. I do not want to see the same indifference we've seen in the past on these matters."Congressman Rush's full remarks from his appearance before today's subcommittee hearing follow. Video footage of his remarks will be posted on his website, https://www.house.gov/rush, within 48 hours and the entire hearing may be viewed on the House Energy and Commerce website, https://energycommerce.house.gov, also with 48 hours.Rush Statement for Communications, Technology and the Internet Subcommittee Hearing on "Oversight of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009: Broadband"April 2, 2009WASHINGTON, D.C. -- "Mr. Chairman, if the stimulus package is going to be as effective as we think and hope it will be, Congress will play an important oversight role in its implementation. So I want to thank you for holding this hearing."My focus will be on the provision in the broadband title of the stimulus package that requires NTIA to consider whether a potential candidate for grant money is a "socially or economically disadvantaged business" as defined under section 8(a) of the Small Business Act. This provision was an amendment that I introduced during mark-up, and I want to thank my Democratic and Republican colleagues for accepting the amendment; and I also want to thank you, Chairman Boucher, and Chairman Waxman, and the Committee staff, for fighting to preserve this particular provision during conference with the Senate. This mandate is not only important to me, but it's important to all of the women and minority-owned businesses out there that continue to face steep barriers when trying to compete in the telecommunications market. Mr. Chairman, since I have been on this committee, I have long insisted that more diversity is needed in this multi-billion dollar industry. I intend to closely monitor how this provision is being implemented. I do NOT want to see the same indifference we've seen in the past on these matters. In this regard, I am very pleased to see our former colleague and friend, Mark Seifert, at NTIA, in charge of this important grant program. With his leadership, I am confident that these grants can play a significant role in helping small women- and minority-owned businesses create jobs and deliver advanced telecommunications services to the American public."Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back the balance of my time."}
04.02.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, today, extended his congratulations and recognition of the progressive leadership of the Honorable David Webb, Mayor of the City of Markham, Illinois, for his role in working with him to secure $437,875 in federal funds for important energy conversion and retrofitting of the Markham Community Center as well as resources to help reduce recidivism and enhance the life skills of at-risk youth in Markham."While my duties on Capitol Hill prevent me from attending today's event, I want to commend the leadership and teamwork demonstrated by my friend and colleague, Mayor Webb. Mayor Webb's foresight, combined with the strength and talent of the leadership of the Link and Option organization, serve as a shining example of an effective community partnership between the non-profit and government sectors. I commend all of the leaders and staff who are gathered in Markham, today, for having the foresight to fight to improve the lives of at-risk youth at Markham's Link and Option Center and to provide much needed energy enhancements for the Markham Community Center. The funds that I was successful in appropriating were part of the FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriation legislation that passed the Congress, last month, which President Barack Obama signed into law. Combined, these programs represent this Congress' efforts to save or create 3.5 million jobs and enhance the quality of life of troubled youth. I look forward to receiving progress reports from those who are utilizing these funds in the Markham community."Congressman Rush obtained $200,000 from the U. S. Department of Justice for The Link & Option Center, Inc., Markham, IL for a school suspension program for at-risk youth incurring recidivism in suspensions, truancy and expulsion at alarming rates. The program will address both youth and their families and includes education, job readiness, life skills management and counseling services. The methodology of intervention in education decreases barriers to employment which will impact deterrence and involvement in the juvenile justice system.In addition, Congressman Rush also obtained $237,875 from the U. S. Department of Energy for the City of Markham to conduct an alternate, green energy conversion retro-fitting of the Markham Community Center with solar panels and a green house roof. This initial grant will allow the City of Markham to conduct Phase I architect/engineering work on the community center. Congressman Rush is also working with the City of Markham to help convert the center into a state-of-the-art, 21st century energy efficient facility.# # #
03.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush proudly cast a 'yes' vote in support of H.R. 1586, a bill that imposes a 90 percent tax on bonus money paid to executives at any company that receives funds under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. "At a time when thousands of hardworking Americans are losing their jobs in an economic climate not seen since the Great Depression, I am outraged at the audacity of executives at the American International Group and other Wall Street firms who, despite their abject failure to effectively oversee their companies, believe that their failed leadership somehow deserves a taxpayer-funded bonus! "There are many things I could say about the behavior that I and millions of Americans have read about in recent days but I am particularly concerned about the message this behavior sends to our children. The message from AIG and others on Wall Street seems to totally disregard the value of working hard and playing by the rules in favor of the discredited mantra, 'greed is good.' Today, with this vote, I've cast my voice loudly and clearly with those who say "enough is enough!" "I stand in solidarity with those Americans, especially those I serve in my district, who believe the firms that accepted TARP funds should rededicate themselves to the principles of sound business management and effective fiscal stewardship. Our nation deserves no less than their very best." # # #
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –– "The Subcommittee will come to order. I want to thank the Members of the Subcommittee for participating in our first trade hearing of the 111th Congress."American companies and workers are facing unprecedented competitive challenges in the world economy. Today, the Obama Administration and Congress are revisiting our trade policy. It is essential that we recognize the importance of international trade for U.S. economic growth as an essential component of our policy response to the global financial crisis. "Today's hearing will explore international trade as a tool to stimulate our economy and examine the role of exports in the growth of the U.S economy. I also want to review the impact of government-sponsored export promotion programs, and the effectiveness of assistance available to help U.S. businesses expand their markets for U.S products and services. "The two largest export promotion programs are sponsored by the International Trade Agency of the Department of Commerce and the Foreign Agriculture Services unit of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. "All export promotion agencies are coordinated by the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC), chaired by the U. S. Department of Commerce. The TPCC was established by the Export Enhancement Act of 1992."In the past, Congress has addressed concerns about several important aspects of export promotions, specifically as it relates to inter-agency coordination, common goals, small business assistance and enforcement of trade agreements. Some progress has been made since then; however, today's economic environment demands a bolder effort to increase our exports and global competitiveness. "In my home State of Illinois, Caterpillar, Inc. has recently laid off 16 percent of its workforce despite the fact that its world-class equipment is needed to support massive infrastructure projects from China to Africa. Sixty percent of its market is overseas with untapped potential in emerging and new markets."In the U.S., exports support six million jobs in the manufacturing industry and one million in agricultural exports. More than one in every five American factory workers owes his or her job to exports. These jobs pay 13- to 18-percent more, on average, than non-trade-related employment."Furthermore, in the recent months of stagnating domestic demand, most growth in manufacturing production was attributed to exports. The U.S. is the world's largest manufacturing country but, despite extensive engagement with the global economy, the U.S. has the smallest percentage of its Gross Domestic Product derived from exports in comparison to any other G-7 country. "U. S. export promotion spending lags behind that of Spain, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Korea, Canada and Japan. "American exports in January, 2009, were down 5.7 percent compared to January of last year. In addition, exports accounted for 13.1 percent of the U.S. economy. This is not sufficient, especially now that the American consumer is spending less. We need to move to trade and exports to sustain economic growth. U.S. trade in goods and services dropped by 14 percent between the 3rd and 4th quarters of 2008. We cannot afford to be idle as our export numbers decrease. "I believe it is crucial that the United States, the world's largest manufacturer and one of the largest exporters of agricultural commodities in the world, sustain its leadership position in the export of goods and services. "I strongly believe that, if we are serious about lowering our trade deficit and creating more jobs for Americans, export promotion must be a national priority. "I am committed to making sure U.S. companies improve their global competitiveness. Canada (20.1 percent) and Mexico (11.7 percent) account for almost one-third of our exports, followed by China and Japan at 5.5 and 5.1 percent, respectively. We need to see higher exports go to Asian markets and we simply cannot rely on Canada and Mexico. "We cannot put all our eggs in the NAFTA basket. It is important that we explore new markets. Markets in Latin America and Africa cannot simply be abdicated to the benefit of other, more determined exporters. The U.S. export promotion program agencies need to be provided with the resources that are needed to design a long-term, ambitious agenda for sustaining exports and opening new markets for U.S products, especially in emerging and new markets. "I commend U.S. businesses for their innovation, their strength and vision in this very competitive and perilous time. I also salute non-profit groups for their dedication and creativity in assisting U.S. businesses as they embark in new ventures. "Furthermore, I recognize the importance of public-private partnerships in fostering the spirit of American business globally."Today is the first of a series of hearings on trade-related matters. I thank all the members and witnesses for participating in this important hearing. And it is my desire that we all continue to work together on trade issues, in a bipartisan fashion, with the goal of helping to materially prosper America's trade economy."I yield back the balance of my time."
03.12.2009	Chicago, IL. ---- Rep. Rush pleased that Illinois will receive nearly $344 Million in Weatherization Funding and Energy Efficiency Grants for Illinois Part of nearly $8 billion in Recovery Act funding for energy efficiency efforts nationwide that will create 100,000 jobs and cut energy bills for families Washington DC –Today, the White House announced that roughly $344 million will be released to Illinois for weatherization and energy efficiency funding – including $242,526,619 million for the Weatherization Assistance Program and $101,321,000 million for the State Energy Program. “As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I have been a longtime staunch supporter of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program because I understand how difficult it is for families, in my district and across the country, to meet the rising costs of home energy,” said Rep. Rush. “This program is one of the reasons I supported this economic recovery package. Overall, this weatherization funding and energy efficiency program will provide funds for LIHEAP and foster job creation that will benefit our most impoverished Illinois citizens. It will help thousands of low-income families weather the storm, literally and figuratively, in the face of unprecedented economic hardships and massive unemployment,” said Rep. Rush. “It will be released today and that will allow us to help people and create 21st Century jobs.” This initiative, which is part of a nationwide investment announced today of nearly $8 billion under the President’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act – is an investment that will potentially put up to 100,000 Americans to work. The funding, which will support weatherization of homes, including adding more insulation, sealing leaks and modernizing heating and air conditioning equipment will pay for itself many times over. The Weatherization Assistance Program will allow an average investment of up to $6,500 per home in energy efficiency upgrades and will be available for families making up to 200% of the federal poverty level – or about $44,000 a year for a family of four. The State Energy Program funding will be available for rebates to consumers for home energy audits or other energy saving improvements; development of renewable energy projects for clean electricity generation and alternative fuels; promotion of Energy Star products; efficiency upgrades for state and local government buildings; and other innovative state efforts to help families save money on their energy bills. The DOE’s Weatherization Assistance Program allows low-income families to reduce their energy bills by making their homes more energy efficient, reducing heating bills by an average of 32% and overall energy bills by hundreds of dollars per year.
03.06.2009	Chicago, IL. ---- {More than 200 entrepreneurs and business organizations including chambers and nonprofits are expected to attend the “Federal Stimulus Workshop for Businesses.” At this workshop, entrepreneurs and organizations with 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(6) status will receive information about stimulus funding priorities, contract opportunities, guidelines, and eligibility requirements. Attendees will learn the differences between M/WBE Certification and DBE Certification. Experts will be able to answer specific questions such as how to become DBE certified and how to do business with government under federal stimulus plan. Wednesday, March 18, 2009(5:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m.) Third Baptist Church of ChicagoHeritage Plaza Banquet Facility (Robinson Room)1500 West 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois(Free Parking available at Church Lot) For more information, call (708) 385-9550 or (773) 224-6500 Participating Entities:U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) U.S. Department of CommerceIllinois Department of Commerce & Economic Opportunity (DCEO)City of Chicago Departments of Community Development & Procurement ServicesSouth Suburban Mayors and Managers AssociationChatham Business Association (CBA)Greater Ashburn Planning AssociationCosmopolitan Chamber of CommerceHull House Small Business Development CenterBusiness & Economic Revitalization Association (BERA)Illinois Department of TransportationMetraCTAPACE}
02.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC ---- “Thank you all so much for inviting me to participate in this very important event this afternoon. “As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I have been a longtime staunch supporter of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program because I understand how difficult it is for families, in my district and across the country, to meet the rising costs of home energy. “I urge my Congressional colleagues to fully fund the LIHEAP program in FY 2010 at its most recent authorization of $5.1 billion. I have personal experience with the need for assistance. I remember my mom; she had five children and was single. I have experienced the heat being turned off in the winter time. My siblings and I were shivering so much that it looked like we were dancing, but we were just trying to be warm. “I remember one of the things that helped solidify my commitment to the Civil Rights Movement. I was called to a basement apartment on the west side of Chicago and there were three or four small children gathered around a space heater. I will never forget the image of what I saw and what I felt that day. That motivated me to get involved. Not only do I come to this as an advocate from Congress, but as a fellow activist and community organizer. “That’s why we cannot be satisfied with $1.5 million. That’s a benchmark. We cannot be comfortable because we are going to keep coming back asking for more money for LIHEAP assistance; $10.2 billion, then $40.4 billion. “I know that millions of Americans, some of whom are standing with me here, today, from my Chicago community, work day in and day out to juggle essential needs—everything from the rising costs of food, healthcare and clothing to education. LIHEAP serves as an essential safety net that, in many instances, can help vulnerable families survive the winter elements.“At this time, please allow me to recognize representatives of the Community and Economic Development Association of Cook County, or CEDA, who have been instrumental in working with me, as a member of Congress, to champion LIHEAP as well as the Weatherization Assistance Program. “CEDA has also been instrumental in helping to transform Chicago into one of the leading “green” cities in the nation. They are Marsha Belcher, Patricia Vance, and Jennifer Smith of CEDA.“Friends, it is with great enthusiasm that I join my colleagues here, as well as the assorted group of community leaders and LIHEAP advocates, to issue a bi-partisan call to action to include $1 billion in home-energy assistance funding in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “This proposed increase in LIHEAP funding will benefit our most impoverished citizens, nationwide, and it will help thousands of low-income families weather the storm, literally and figuratively, in the face of unprecedented economic hardships and massive unemployment. “I want to thank all of you for allowing me to join you today. We must remain steadfast in our resolve to ensure that we include increased LIHEAP funding in the stimulus package and that we provide the assistance that is so badly needed by our most vulnerable families and communities. “Thank you.” # # #
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC ---- We are in the midst of the largest economic downturn since the Great Depression. Just this past Monday alone nearly 65,000 workers were laid off across the United States. These are difficult times, which require a strong and timely response to restore our ailing economy and help the unemployed and low-income families through this economic crisis. “Tonight, I voted for H.R. 1: The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, but we must do more than pass bills and provide funding. We must act by deeds, not just words. Now is the time for us to unite, empower, and employ millions of Americans who have fallen victim to this economic downturn. I call on our state and local officials across this nation, and particularly in Illinois and in Chicago—to step up to the plate and work to bring the jobs that will be created by H.R. 1, to our poor families, our unemployed, and our most vulnerable and depressed communities. “Now is the time to act. We must focus the relief set out by this legislation on those who are suffering most. Together, local, state and national leaders must prioritize well-paying and long-lasting jobs to poor individuals, bring road and transportation projects to low-income neighborhoods, improve schools in struggling underfunded districts, where students are using outdated textbooks and technology in rundown facilities, so that all our children have a fair chance to learn and all our families have a fair chance to live. “When working to distribute these funds Congress and state and local officials MUST ensure that the poor families, single-parents and unemployed who are struggling just to get by, are not forgotten. H.R. 1 is full of examples of how we can benefit our most vulnerable. For example, the “Making Work Pay” tax credit serves to stimulate the economy by putting $1,000 into the hands of more than ninety-five percent of working families and an additional increase in the earned income tax credit provides tax-relief to working families, helping them pay-off mortgages, pay health insurance premiums and feed and cloth their families. “This legislation expands access to COBRA Premium Assistance for the recently unemployed, providing workers and their families with quality health care, at a time when they most desperately need it. Finally, H.R. 1 also helps states maintain their Medicaid programs and gives states the option of providing coverage to additional low income individuals who would otherwise be left in the cold. “We have a moral obligation to step up and do more than pass a bill. Now is the time to commit these funds to people and projects that will get people back to work. Now is the time to commit these funds to people and projects that will revitalize our communities. Now is the time to commit ourselves to the greatest form of service—helping those in need. “Let us not forget the daily debate many hard-working American families will have to decide tonight: How will we keep our house? How will we feed our family? How will we keep the lights on? Now is the time to reach a hand out and help our neighbors up.”
01.22.2009	Chicago, IL. ---- “Mr. Chairman, I will be brief given that we have a lot of work ahead of us during this markup. “My amendment is simple and directs the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to consider whether an eligible entity applying for a grant is a “socially and economically disadvantaged small business concern” as defined under Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act. The purpose of this amendment is for the NTIA to take into account women- and minority-owned businesses when issuing grants for the development of broadband services. “The amendment does not run afoul of the Constitution and is not a “quota” or “set-aside program” that would be of concern to the courts. The amendment requires that NTIA exhibit sensitivity to the needs of women- and minority-owned businesses in an effort to promote diversity in the marketplace. This is only one factor among many that NTIA must consider when issuing grants, and it is not a definitive factor. My staff has consulted with the Congressional Research Service and CRS does not believe this amendment raises Constitutional problems. “Mr. Chairman, I have long been a champion of increasing women and minority ownership in the telecommunications industry. For too long, the same faces and the same companies have dominated this highly lucrative, multi-billion dollar market with no chance for disadvantaged businesses to participate and compete. This amendment is a small step towards attempting to create diversity in the marketplace so that ALL businesses can take advantage of the promise of advanced telecommunications services. “I thank the Chairman for his support of my amendment, and I urge its adoption.” # # #
12.16.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush today released the following statement extending his support and congratulations to Chicago Public Schools CEO Arne Duncan on his appointment, by President-Elect Barack Obama, to serve as the next Secretary of Education in the new Administration. “It is with great pride and enthusiasm that I extend my warmest congratulations to Chicago Public Schools CEO Arne Duncan on his selection as the next Secretary of Education in the new Administration. I have had the opportunity to work with Arne on many education initiatives during his tenure as CPS chief and I am confident that he will bring a unique ability to effectively address the most pressing education issues our country faces in the 21st century. “Specifically, I know that we share the objective of improving elementary and secondary education for all students, expanding early childhood education, making college affordable, developing strong vocational education programs and promoting policies of social, educational and political justice for all citizens. “Through his work in the Chicago Public Schools system for the last ten years, including serving as its CEO since 2001, Arne has demonstrated a capacity and willingness to tackle the tough issues associated with improving and reforming our nation’s public school system and he’s gotten results. Under his leadership, elementary test scores have reached an all-time high with more than 65% of students meeting or exceeding state standards––our seventh consecutive gain. “His support of merit pay for administrators and teachers, along with his demands for additional funding for teachers’ professional development and recruitment, and improved school infrastructure, has made Arne a symbol of the type of school reform that our country so desperately needs. “President-Elect Obama has made a great selection and I look forward to working with Secretary Duncan in our shared efforts to improve the nation’s public education system for all students. I know he will work tirelessly to ensure that all elementary and secondary schools are adequately equipped to provide our students with a quality education and to help prepare them for the rigors of higher education, as well as for the competitive global economy that awaits them.”
12.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC ---- The passage of the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act on December 10 was an important step by the House of Representatives to restore financial stability to a vital and necessary industry in this nation. As a Member of Congress, there were at least three compelling reasons that led me to support this important legislation. First, I believe there are sufficient safeguards in this stop-gap legislation to protect taxpayer dollars. Second, this bill will allow the President-elect Barack Obama and his Administration enough time upon taking office to adequately review the long term viability of the auto industry. Lastly, a major reason I supported this bill was because it preserves more than 154,000 jobs in Illinois. Too many people have already lost their job this year. We cannot afford for the American auto industry to collapse.
12.04.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush lauded the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMMS) approval of the 2009 Hospital Assessment. This ruling means over $3.8 billion to Illinois over five years and an overdue boost of funds to hospitals like Holy Cross, St. Bernard, Jackson Park Hospital and Cook County’s Stroger Hospital.Rush said, “Our state and its residents are in a financial crisis—at least now our hospitals can keep the doors of healing, hope and health open. We all know that our hospitals have been working miracles saving the lives of patients, maintaining staff, and protecting our most vulnerable with little to no resources. The 2009 Hospital Assessment Plan means hospitals will now receive millions of additional dollars in federal matching funds.”Under this five-year agreement, the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) will distribute an estimated annual amount of over $1.5 billion in Medicaid payments to hospitals. The federal government matches these payments and sends Illinois over $775 million in matching funds. The state then collects $900 million in taxes from hospitals to help support this spending. Through this process, hospitals gain $640 million in increased funding, and $130 million is made available for critical services delivered by other Medicaid providers.HFS will distribute the money to hospitals during the course of the year through monthly payments, greatly assisting these providers in difficult economic times. The amount of money a hospital receives is based on the various services it provides to Medicaid patients.“I am particularly pleased for Holy Cross Hospital,” said Rush. “I’ve been working hands-on with them to find ways to keep their doors open, and this infusion of resources will make a world of difference to the hospital, the patients, the staff and our community.”
10.27.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- "At times like these, words seem small in comparison to the overwhelming loss that has been suffered by Jennifer Hudson, Julia Hudson, and the entire Hudson family. "My outrage at the level of depravity displayed by the gun-wielding assailant in the deaths, last Friday, of the Hudson sisters’ mother, Darnell Donerson, and brother, Jason Hudson, is only eclipsed, today, by my grief at the news this afternoon that our hopes for the safe return of Julia Hudson’s seven-year-old son, Julian King, were not to be realized. "I mourn today because three people in the Englewood community died a senseless death apparently at the barrel of a gun. I mourn because Darnell, Jason and Julian are members of my community. I mourn because everyday, 45 people, on average, are fatally shot in the United States, which is more than the number of American soldiers killed in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. "Americans of conscience must come together to stop these senseless deaths. We must say 'enough is enough, stop the killing.' "I want Jennifer, Julia, and the entire Hudson family to know that my staff and I are available to provide whatever support they may need in the coming days, weeks and months as they walk through the overwhelming grief, loss and sadness I know they are experiencing. "As sure as I know that there is a God, I pray that the loving God we serve will continue to guide and comfort the Hudson family, and our entire Chicago community, during this heartbreaking set of circumstances." ###
10.21.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- It is great news that former Police Commander Jon Burge was arrested on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice. For decades, Burge has not only been accused of torture and misconduct, but he is alleged to have led a group of officers who routinely, brutally forced confessions out of suspects throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Last year, around this same time, I asked the Honorable John Conyers Jr., Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee to investigate this matter and hold a hearing if necessary. As recently as last month, I assured Chairman Conyers that I still wanted him to pursue this matter. I have pushed for a federal inquiry into these allegations and I am pleased that Burge has been arrested and that U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald is making progress. I am disturbed and troubled by the allegations against Jon Burge and believe that he should have been arrested many years ago, but I am pleased that the wheels of justice are turning. Criminal acts by anyone are unacceptable, but when the accused is one who is charged with upholding the law, these criminal acts are even that much more egregious and horrible. Burge and police officers serving under him have been accused of torturing more than 200 criminal suspects between 1972 and 1991, in order to force confessions. Some of the people who had confessed to murder and who were convicted were later granted new trials, while others have been either acquitted or pardoned. In 2002, a special prosecutor was assigned to investigate this matter, at a cost of $17 million in taxpayer’s dollars. Despite evidence of torture, it was determined that Burge and Area 2 detectives who worked under him could not be prosecuted because the statue of limitations had expired. We must not stop until the truth is established and all parties, Burge and those who followed him are brought to justice. ###
10.03.2008	Washington, DC. ---- "After careful consideration, deliberation and reflection upon the impact of the current U. S. economic climate on the citizens of my congressional district and the nation, I voted in support of the Senate amendment to H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. This was not an easy vote in part because of the complexity of the issue at hand. "Listening to hundreds of my constituents, economists, the business community and my colleagues in the Congress, I believe that my vote and the subsequent passage of this legislation is a step toward correcting the failures of Wall Street and the economic policies of the past eight years. "Given the continued strain on our entire economy, the effects of which I know are adversely affecting middle- and low-income families in my district — I believe a "yes" vote on this measure was in order. Additionally, there were measures added to this bill by the Senate that I have been a strong advocate for during my tenure in Congress. The mental health parity provisions and the alternative minimum tax provisions are two such measures. The mental health provisions, of which I was an original co-sponsor in the House, requires insurers to include mental health coverage as part of primary care insurance plans. Additionally, Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) "fix" will reduce income tax liability, this year, for thousands of Illinois residents and more than 28,000 people who live in my congressional district. I also support raising the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit guarantee from $100,000 to $250,000. "While some improvements were made to assist homeowners facing foreclosure, I will remain vigilant to ensure that low-income and working-class families are not ignored while our nation's financial ship of state seeks to right itself. My bottom line is I want the people I serve to know that, for me, this is not the end but, indeed, just the beginning of my efforts to ensure that the issues the people who live on Main Street are never again eclipsed by the excesses of Wall Street." # # #
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC. ---- “I am reporting to my constituents that I voted “no” on H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which I believe is simply a $700 billion financial earmark for Wall Street. While I believe that a legislative remedy is in order this bill, which was developed in good faith by House leadership on both sides of the aisle, fundamentally failed to provide adequate protections for hardworking, middle-class Americans. Contrary to earlier news reports, this bill failed to curb exorbitant CEO compensation excesses and would have simply imposed a 20% excise tax on their existing salaries and bonuses, something my constituents simply could not abide. Further, there’s nothing in this bill that would have helped those hard-working families who are only one pay check away from foreclosure. In addition, the oversight function, as written in this bill, vested all of the oversight in Presidential appointees, not in an independent, bipartisan group of leaders who would have the support from both political parties and a majority of the American people. “My constituents have spoken loudly and clearly to me and I have heard them. I am committed to continuing to work with leadership, on both sides of the aisle, to craft a proposal that will restore confidence in our financial markets while including a realistic stake, and financial safeguards, for middle-class and lower income working families many of whom reside in my 1st Congressional district.” # # #
08.01.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- “I am pleased that the Senate has done the right thing for America’s children by passing the conference report on the Rush-Pryor bill, H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act. I want to commend both the entire U.S. Senate on displaying such bipartisan unity and I want to specifically commend U.S. Senator Mark Pryor for his authorship of this landmark bill. “I also want to thank all of the Senate conferees, particularly the distinguished Chairman of the Conference Committee, Senator Daniel Inouye, for their bipartisan, bicameral cooperation. “Congress is united in its effort to make children’s products safer by establishing a tough new ban on toxic toys and revitalizing the Consumer Product Safety Commission. As such, we have taken a big step towards reestablishing consumer safety and consumer confidence.”
07.10.2008	Washington, D.C. This Friday, at a rooftop gathering in Washington, D.C., eight-term U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush is joining with ROOT, Inc., a non-profit activist organization, to launch a nationwide organizing campaign to provide federal resources to strengthen local community efforts to stem the unprecedented wave of gun-related violence that continues to plague our country. The event, to be held on the Rooftop of The Ellington in the nation’s capital, will assemble local and national business and community leaders to support Rush’s effort to enact the “Communities in Action Neighborhood Defense and Opportunity Act” (CAN DO), a grassroots-inspired piece of legislation that will provide law enforcement and intervention resources in a manner designed to reduce the killing. Rush’s CBC colleague, the Honorable Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes-Norton, will be a special guest speaker. “Today, through our collective sense of community — whether in urban enclaves like the one I represent on the South Side of Chicago or in quiet, rural, towns like Weleetka, Oklahoma where two young girls were recently killed by a random assailant — too many Americans are dying at the hands of a perpetrator armed with a gun,” said Rush. “The gun death toll in America exceeds that of what’s occurring in Iraq. An average of 45 people die each and every day, in our country, from a firearm—irregardless of race, class or culture. I believe that a nation as prosperous as ours must do better. That’s what the CAN DO bill is all about,” Rush added. – 2 – The CAN DO bill is a targeted attempt to change attitudes and behaviors toward gun violence by bringing together entire communities to address systemic factors that lead to violence and to, specifically, make rampant gun violence unacceptable in local communities. CAN DO calls for a four-pronged attack on gun violence in some of the worst, crime-plagued communities in the United States. Specifically, the bill: -- enhances law enforcement by targeting the most violent criminals -- increases funding for mental health and psychological counseling -- funds employment training and opportunity; and -- provides educational and recreational services for at-risk youth. In addition to authoring H. R. 2666, known as “Blair’s Bill,” a common sense measure that proposes a uniform registry of all firearms, since February 7, 2008, on virtually every day the House has been in session, Rush has entered a series of “Daily 45” one-minute floor statements that decry the latest incident of gun-related homicide while expressing remorse for the victims and their families. CAN DO and the effort that Rep. Rush and community activists plan to mount in the coming months, represents the next step in Rush’s ongoing commitment to get the nation to address an issue that is decimating American communities.
04.08.2008	BLUE ISLAND, IL—A coalition of elected officials led by Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), State Rep. Robert Rita (D-28th District), and Blue Island Mayor Donald E. Peloquin vowed, April 8, to work together to attempt to keep St. Francis hospital open. On April 2, SSM Health Care announced that, after 103 years of serving the Blue Island community, St. Francis Hospital will close. The group of elected officials urges a potential buyer to come forth to ensure no interruption in services or jobs. “This closing will have a devastating impact on the overall delivery of health services to the south and south suburban region, in addition to creating a tremendous economic implosion through the loss of nearly 1500 jobs,” said Stanley Watkins, chief of staff for U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, who read a statement prepared by Rush who was unable to attend. “I remain concerned about the direction our nation’s health care system continues to take, and clearly the closing of St. Francis Hospital is not a step in the right direction.” The elected officials also urged the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board to look critically and deliberately at the request of SSM Health Care, one of the largest and most economically viable Catholic health care systems in this nation, to nail shut the doors of this 410-bed medical institution. “St. Francis Hospital is important to Blue Island and the surrounding communities, and it’s important that we continue to work together to see if there is a solution that can be reached,” State Rep. Rita said during the press conference held in the Blue Island City Hall East Annex located 2434 Vermont Street. Since the announced closing, many elected officials in the area have been swamped with phone calls, faxes and emails from concerned residents. “I and the City of Blue Island appreciate the help and support being given to us by our congressional and state leaders,” said Mayor Peloquin. Also in attendance were State Rep. William Davis (D-30th District); State Rep. Kevin Joyce (D-35th District).
03.18.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- Determined to preserve the rich legacy of Chicago’s southside, a community coalition has joined Congressman Bobby L. Rush in an effort to designate the Black Metropolis District, including the historic Bronzeville area, of Chicago as a National Heritage Area. According to the National Park Service, “a national heritage area is a place designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally-distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography.” On February 29, the last day of Black History Month, Rep. Rush introduced a bill to the House of Representatives, titled HR 5505: Black Metropolis District National Heritage Area Study Act, which calls for the federal government to “conduct a study to determine the feasibility” of designating the study area a national heritage area. Black Metropolis District “has a cohesive and distinctive history that is worthy of national heritage designation,” said Rep. Rush. “This is more than nostalgia; by highlighting the past, we can inspire the future.” Supporters of HR 5505 believe the effort will help revitalize the area culturally and economically, without compromising its history, which includes great accomplishments in culture, business, sports, education, health care, labor, politics, religion and social justice. “The designation will support the ongoing development of Bronzeville as an international heritage tourism destination,” said Paula Robinson, President of Black Metropolis National Heritage Area Project. The designated study area roughly stretches between Lake Michigan at some points and the Dan Ryan, from 18th street to 71st Street. The area includes the neighborhoods of Oakland, Kenwood, Washington Park, Grand Boulevard, Douglass, and Woodlawn. The term Bronzeville was created by a then Chicago Bee newspaper editor. The First Mayor of Bronzeville was selected in 1934. The editor left the Bee and went to work for the Chicago Defender, where the term was made popular. Later, the heart of the study area was unofficially dubbed “Black Metropolis” following a landmark 1945 sociological study with that same title. “The Illinois Institute of Technology is proud to be a long time member of the Bronzeville community and we are excited about the opportunities to help preserve the wonderful legacy of this area,” said David Baker, vice president of external affairs for IIT. “We plan to work with the Congressman to support the bill in Washington and to help with the creation of the National Heritage Area once it is designated.” The Black Metropolis-Bronzeville District currently has nine structures designated as Chicago landmarks: Overton Hygienic Building, Chicago Bee Building, Wabash Avenue YMCA, Chicago Defender Building, Unity Hall, Eighth Regiment Armory, Sunset Cafe, Victory Monument, and Supreme Life Building. “This is great, not just for the southside of Chicago, but it’s great for the entire city of Chicago and state of Illinois,” said Jan Kostner, Deputy Director, Illinois Bureau of Tourism, “Visitors from all over the world will have an opportunity to see firsthand the tremendous accomplishments of African Americans in business, politics, education, and so many other areas.” Once the study is complete, Rep. Rush will draft another bill to actually designate the Black Metropolis-Bronzeville District a national heritage area.
03.09.2008	Chicago, IL. ---- “On Saturday, March 1, 2008, I underwent successful surgery to remove a cancerous tumor from mysalivary gland. Th e surgery was performed at the University of Chicago Medical Center and the surgical team was led by Dr. Elizabeth A. Blair. I am resting comfortably at home. I am well into my recuperation period which should last for another three to five weeks. “I am very blessed because although rare, this cancer was determined to be localized. Post operative treatments are to be scheduled after my full recovery from surgery. “During that time, my very capable personal staff, as well as my subcommittee staff, is actively managing, under my direction, all legislative and constituent services priorities. Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House leaders are well aware of my current status and are very supportive. “Thank you for your continued support and prayers during my season of healing and recovery.”
10.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Called a dramatic step in “giving hope to a nation of women,” the U.S. House of Representatives, Oct. 15, passed legislation introduced by Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) —H.R. 20, the Melanie Blocker Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act—by a vote of 382-3. “After six long years, today marks an important step in the protracted journey for Congress to recognize postpartum depression as a national priority,” said Rep. Rush on the House floor right before the vote. “By passing H.R. 20, Congress, and our nation, will finally put significant money and attention into research, screening, treatment, and education for mothers suffering and surviving this serious, debilitating, and often life-threatening disease.” This bill was first introduced in 2001 after the tragic death of Chicagoan, Melanie Blocker Stokes. Melanie was a 40-year-old, African American woman who died by suicide after a long, much-publicized battle with this most severe form of the mental illness—postpartum psychosis. She left behind a daughter, Summer Skky and her husband, Dr. Sam Stokes. Dressed in blue to signify their solidarity with those who suffer from postpartum depression and psychosis—leaders of several advocacy organizations traveled to Capitol Hill from across the country to announce their support for the bill and to witness the historic vote that moves the bill closer to reality. “What a thrill it was to watch from the Congressional Gallery as Congressman Rush made his final, victorious push for America’s children and families,” said Susan Stone, president of Postpartum Support International. “Congressman Rush has given hope to a nation of women whose country had turned a deaf ear to their plight.” The bill will now be sent to the Senate for approval. Supporters hope awareness, research, and money for services and treatment will be a reality by year’s end. H.R. 20 will: · encourage the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to further fund research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) · finance a national public awareness campaign to bring this illness out of the dark and shed light on how to screen and treat mothers · add “depression” to the biennial reporting the National Institutes of Health must submit to Congress; and · finance grants to public or nonprofit entities to establish and operate programsthat provide screening, treatment and various health care and support services to individuals with postpartum depression orpostpartum psychosis. Moreover, this bill is cost effective. And, specifically, The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R. 20 would cost less than $500,000 in 2008 and $18 million over five years. And specifically, CBO states that enacting H.R. 20 would not affect direct spending or revenues. Supporters of the bill include Postpartum Support International, Family Mental Health Foundation, American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Children’s Defense Fund, The Melanie Blocker Stokes Foundation, Suicide Prevention Action Network, Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, Mental Health America, National Alliance for Mental Illness, Community Behavioral Healthcare, The March of Dimes, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Guttmacher Institute, and NARAL, Pro-Choice America. Postpartum depression, in its various levels, is the single most frequent serious complication of pregnancy. According to Postpartum Support International, approximately, every 50 seconds, a new mother will begin struggling with the effects of mental illness. And, of the new postpartum cases this year, less than 15 percent of mothers will receive treatment; however, with treatment over 90 percent of these mothers could overcome their depression.
09.21.2007	Washington D.C. ---- I stand in full support of the thousands of civil demonstrators who plan to converge on Jena, Louisiana today to protest a series of incidents stemming from several nooses that were hung from a tree at a local high school. That incident sparked a fight that resulted in the arrest of six African American students. I am shocked and outraged at the harsh treatment and unfair charges handed out to the six Black students involved in the fight, who are now known as the Jena 6. The plight of the Jena 6 is nothing more than a modern day perversion of justice and sad wake up call for today’s youth about the underside of American justice. This horrible display of racism and intolerance in Jena, Louisiana should be a wake up call for all who believe that the struggle against institutionalized racism is over. Although I cannot attend the rally because of my congressional duties, my prayers are with Mychal Bell, Robert Bailey, Theo Shaw, Carwin Jones, Bryant Purvis, and Jesse Beard. We must remain vigilant against this injustice all charges against all six students are dropped, and that includes the immediate release of Mychal Bell.
09.18.2007	Washington D.C. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection will hold a hearing on Wednesday, September 19, 2007, at 10:00 a.m. and Thursday, September 20, 2007, at 10:00 a.m., both days in room 2123 Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing is entitled “Protecting Children from Lead-Tainted Imports.” Panels I and II will testify Wednesday; Panels III and IV will testify Thursday. The hearing will be broadcast via the Committee web site, https://energycommerce.house.gov. Witnesses will address recent findings of lead in imported children’s products, as well as broader trends in trade and globalization that have contributed to unsafe imports. Many of the products containing lead were imported from China; the discovery of the poisonous metal resulted in recalls of millions of toys and other items. WITNESS LIST Panel I (Sept. 19) Nancy Nord, Acting Chairman, CPSC Thomas Moore, Commissioner, CPSC Panel II (Sept. 19) Robert Eckert, CEO, Mattel, Inc. Panel III (Sept. 20) Dana Best, M.D., M.P.H. Children’s National Medical Center Olivia D. Farrow, Esq., R.S. Assistant Commissioner Division of Environmental Health Baltimore City Health Department Michael Green Executive Director Center for Environmental Health Lori Wallach Director Global Trade Watch Mary Teagarden Professor of Global Strategy Thunderbird School of Global Management Panel IV (Sept. 20) Carter Keithley President Toy Industry Association, Inc. Allen Thompson Vice President, Global Supply Chain Policy Retail Industry Leaders Association Michael Gale Fashion Jewelry Trade Association Gary E. Knell CEO and President Sesame Workshop Kathie Morgan Vice President, Technical Committee Operations ATSM International
08.14.2007	Chicago, IL. ---- “I am appalled that American children continue to be threatened by toys with well-known hazards. We have known for decades that exposure to lead paint can impair brain development in young children. We also know from recent tragedies that toys with loose magnets, when swallowed, can maim or kill small children. “This morning’s latest CPSC recall announcement concerning children’s toys demonstrates that much remains to be done. We must rid the Nation’s stores of dangerous products. When, despite our best efforts, these products show up in our stores, we must be able to tell parents about them as quickly as possible, so they can take them away from their children. “My subcommittee plans to hold another hearing on this matter in September to continue in the work already begun earlier this year on dangerous children’s products. I remain determined to protect American children from dangerous toys.”
07.24.2007	Washington, D.C. –– U. S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) joined in the national day of celebration, today, as he and other top Democratic leaders joined working families from around the country, in the nation’s capital, to mark a long overdue pay raise for nearly 13 million people throughout the U.S. While Illinois workers’ minimum wage already exceeds today’s $.70 increase, to $5.85 per hour, Rush continues to lead the charge for working families. “I am very proud of the uphill battle my colleagues and I fought successfully in this new, Democratic-led Congress, to address the legacy of neglect of working families under this Administration,” said Rush, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. “Ten years is simply too long to wait for hard-working men, women and teenagers to go without the resources needed to adequately take care of themselves and their families.” Rush, who was part of the statewide effort that helped raise Illinois’ minimum wage to $7.50 earlier this month, also noted that this increase is particularly important for working mothers and low-income families in communities of color. More than a third of all women who will benefit from today’s increase are African American or Hispanic—women who are disproportionately single heads of household. Two years from now, in July, 2009 when the federal minimum wage reaches $7.25 per hour, working families nationwide will earn an additional $4,400 a year to meet critical needs. Illinois’ working families will fare somewhat better as the state’s minimum wage will rise to $8.00 per hour in July, 2009 and will cap at $8.25 per hour, by July, 2010, under current law. The $5.15 minimum wage that fades into history today meant that full-time, minimum wage workers—like millions of immigrant families and low-income families with children—lived at nearly $6,000 below the poverty level for a family of three. Meanwhile, the average gallon of gasoline, nationwide, is about $3.10. Chairman Rush remains vigilant in his efforts to improve economic conditions for working families and continues to craft ways to enhance family economic security, health and well being. “Despite the progress we’re today, we still live in a nation where the average American CEO earns more by lunchtime, in one day, than a minimum wage worker earns all year,” said Rush. “I’m determined to continue the battle to ensure that every person who wants to work can do so at a wage that is worthy of their dignity and productivity,” Rush added.
07.17.2007	Washington, D.C. -- – Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection Chairman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), opened an investigation into the far-reaching privacy and competition issues raised by the proposed acquisition of DoubleClick Inc. by Google Inc. Chairman Rush wrote a letter to Federal Trade Commission Chairman Deborah Majoras, asking for a non-public briefing on that agency’s investigation, and announcing his intention to hold a hearing. The text of Chairman Rush’s letter follows: “There is widespread concern about the proposed merger between Google and DoubleClick that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) currently is reviewing. Concerns have focused not only on the implications for competition – in online advertising and other possibly affected markets – but also on the potentially enormous impact on consumer privacy. Consumer groups in the United States and Europe as well as the European Commission’s Article 29 Data Protection Working Party have expressed growing alarm over the implications for consumer privacy from the practices of these companies, especially if they combine. I share these concerns and am writing to notify you that the Subcommittee is considering holding a hearing when an appropriate date becomes available after the August District Work Period.” “As you know from our recent work with the FTC on privacy legislation, the Subcommittee takes very seriously the protection of consumer privacy. Pursuant to our jurisdiction over interstate and foreign commerce and commercial practices, the Subcommittee also is looking into the proposed merger’s impact on competition. As Chairman of the Subcommittee, I therefore submit this written request for a non-public briefing on the FTC’s current investigation concerning the proposed Google/DoubleClick merger as well as similar proposed acquisitions.”
06.18.2007	Chicago, IL. ----Congressman Bobby L. Rush and Senator Dick Durbin held a Congressional hearing today aimed at keeping deadly toys out of the hands of American children. Rush, as chairman of the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection has jurisdiction over how the Consumer Product Safety Commission operates. Durbin, as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Finance Services and General Government has oversight authority over CPSC. The hearing was sparked by the Chicago Tribune articles early last month that exposed incidences where more than a dozen children faced life-threatening injuries from playing with a popular magnetic toy. One child died as a result of the injury. The toy, Magnetix Magnetic Building Sets, uses powerful magnets, which, if dislodged, can be swallowed and attract, causing internal injuries. “I have held two hearings on children’s safety and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including one that addressed the Magnetix case. My subcommittee’s jurisdiction is multi-faceted and covers a broad area. But there is nothing more important than our mission to look out for our children,” said Chairman Rush. “I’ve already publicly said that one of my priorities as chairman is to write a reform bill that overhauls the CPSC’s underlying, enabling statute.” Those who testified included, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan; Nancy A Nord, U.S. CPSC acting chair; Sharon Henry, parent; Kyran Quinlan MD, MPH, FAAP on behalf of the American Academy of Pediatrics; Nancy A. Cowles, Kids in Danger; Carter Keithley, president of Toy Industry Association, Inc. “I am here as a mother to tell the frightening story of what happened to my little boy, Deron,” said Sharon Henry, Deron’s mother. “I am also here as a concerned consumer to ensure that this tragedy does not happen to anyone else.” Two years ago, Deron Henry swallowed magnets which had broken off of his Magnetix toy set. After complaining of stomach pains, Deron was rushed to the hospital where he underwent emergency surgery for a perforated bowel. Deron survived, but may suffer from bowel obstructions and abdominal pain for the rest of his life. “Since the Tribune articles hit the newsstands, Chairman Rush has held two hearings on the issue and is currently working on a thorough review of CPSC’s operating statutes. He plans to issue a comprehensive reform package soon. “If the federal government cannot deliver on this basic responsibility to help parents keep their children away from avoidable hazards, then we are not doing our job,” said Rush. “The Chicago Tribune articles on Magnetix are disturbing—to say the least—and they depict the worst nightmare of any parent come true. Congress must make the necessary reforms at the Consumer Product Safety Commission to prevent future child deaths.”
06.11.2007	Chicago, IL. ---- U.S. Rep. Rush was joined by Ronald Holt, the father of Blair Holt, Rufus Williams, president of the Chicago Board of Education, law enforcement officials and community activists to introduce Blair Holt’s Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2007-HR 2666 (Blair’s Bill) aimed at curbing senseless violence by implementing a uniform system for purchasers of certain firearms. The group gathered at the location where Holt’s son Blair, was elevated from being an honor student attending Julian High School to a hero when he used his body to shield a ultimately save a female friend. “The proliferation of guns in our community impacts us all. My son lost his life back in 1999 due to senseless gun violence and my nephew sits in jail today, convicted of fatally shooting someone. Like all of you, I am sick and tired of scenes like this being replayed over and over again in our neighborhoods," said Rep. Rush, chairman of the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. "Since the beginning of this school year alone, over 31 children have lost their life by violence, and the great majority were killed with guns. In response to these tragedies, I am introducing a bill in Congress that would regulate gun trafficking and possession in this country. HR 2666, Blair’s Bill, will implement a nationwide program of licensing all individuals who possess firearms and require all guns to be registered in a national gun registry," he added. According to police, Michael Pace boarded an eastbound 103rd Street CTA bus at 103rd and Halsted about 3:20 p.m. on May 10 and started shooting, striking two males and three females, all of whom were students at Julian. Kevin Jones is accused of giving Pace the gun, knowing he wanted to use it to try to kill someone he had argued with. Julian High School student Blair Holt used his body to shield and ultimately save a female friend. The purpose of the Bill is:(1) to protect the public against the unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with the unrecorded sale or transfer of qualifying firearms to criminals and youth; (2) to ensure that owners of qualifying firearms are knowledgeable in the safe use, handling, and storage of those firearms; (3) to restrict the availability of qualifying firearms to criminals, youth, and other persons prohibited by Federal law from receiving firearms; and (4) to facilitate the tracing of qualifying firearms used in crime by Federal and State law enforcement agencies.
06.06.2007	WASHINGTON, DC—A group of lawmakers, health care advocates and hospitals joined today on Capitol Hill in a call for an increased federal commitment to making sure hard-working families have increased access to safe, affordable health care. U.S. Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL), Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI), and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), were joined by Bill von Oehsen,president of Safety Net Hospitals for Pharmaceutical Access, Larry Gage, president of National Association of Public Hospitals, Roberta Rakove vice president Government Relations Mt. Sinai Hospital and other leading health care advocates to introduce Rush’s 340B Drug Expansion Act of 2007 in the House. “We must work tirelessly to make health care more safe, affordable and accessible by helping hospitals' save on prescription drugs. This allows hospitals to expand patient services while passing on the savings to consumers,” said Rep. Rush. “I am committed to moving this bill immediately and I am pleased to have co-sponsors Stupak and Emerson working to move this legislation along.” Hardworking families nationwide seek better access to safe, affordable health care. The 340B Drug Expansion Act of 2007 (HR 2626) will increase access to prescription drugs for low income individuals, through community health centers and other venues. Congress established the 340B Drug Pricing program, created through the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, to limit the cost of outpatient pharmaceutical drugs paid by safety net hospitals, clinics, and providers. The law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers participating in the Medicaid program provide discounts on covered outpatient drugs purchased by “covered entities”. Through the 340B program discounts would be extended to inpatient drugs for DSH hospitals, specifically rural referral, sole-provider and Medicare-dependent hospitals. “On average, health care providers that qualify for the 340B program pay 40 to 50 percent less for prescription drugs than average wholesale price,” Rep. Stupak said. “This legislation recognizes the unique challenges rural health care providers face and, by extending 340B benefits to them, ensures they save money and are able continue providing quality health care to rural Americans.” Hospitals and health care advocates praise the expansion provisions in the new bill. “We commend Congressman Rush for his strong support of our nation’s safety net hospitals. Extending discounts to inpatient drugs will provide much-needed financial relief to Children’s Memorial Hospital,” said Patrick Magoon, President and CEO, Children’s Memorial Hospital. “In the past fiscal year, Mount Sinai purchased $2.4 million in 340b drugs for outpatient. We estimate the savings to Sinai to be $720,000,” said Roberta Rakove, Vice President Government Relations Mt. Sinai Hospital. “Based on this past year's expenditures, if 340B were extended to inpatient, we would have purchased $8.2 million in 340 b inpatient drugs for a cost savings of $2.46 million.” According to Sister Elizabeth Van Straten, President and CEO of St. Bernard Hospital, Congressman Rush's bill to allow "safety net" hospitals access to discounted drug prices for inpatients would cut the hospital's cost of care by at least $750,000 per year. "As an inner-city hospital on the south side of Chicago struggling to serve an enormous number of uninsured patients, this legislation would be immensely helpful in making ends meet -- it provides critical assistance to our mission to care for society's most vulnerable," she said.
06.05.2007	WASHINGTON, DC (May 23, 2007)— As Chicago faces the highest gas prices in the country, Illinois Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D) moved important high gas relief legislation thru Congress today. As chairman of the subcommittee he managed the movement of the bill to the House floor, which passed with a two-thirds vote in favor of H.R. 1252, the “Federal Price Gouging Protection Act.” “Gasoline prices are now at record highs. Now rising gas prices are one thing, and I fully recognize the reality of global oil markets, the current state of our refinery capacity, and the basic laws of supply and demand,” said Rep. Rush. “But the gouging of American consumers is another matter entirely, and the bill on the House floor today, ensures that American consumers are protected from companies that would prey on them during emergencies when they are most vulnerable.” H.R. 1252: “Federal Price Gouging Protection Act” will protect legitimate businesses, but penalize price gougers. A key part of the bill, sponsored by Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI), includes the prohibition of wholesale or retail sale of gasoline or other petroleum distillates at prices that are unconscionably excessive or take unfair advantage of consumers. The federal government would be allowed to impose tough civil and criminal penalties for those who manipulate or gouge prices. The bill also gives enforcement powers to the Federal Trade Commission which includes the issuing of fines that would be applied to Low Income Home Energy Assistant programs nationwide. “I want to commend Mr. Stupak for a fine piece of legislation that is thoughtful and careful in its scope. On the one hand, the bill is tough and decisive. It gives the Federal Trade Commission the tools to crack down on and punish those companies that would price gouge American consumers by unscrupulously taking advantage of unique energy shortages and unconscionably raising the price of gasoline on American consumers,” said Rush. “As chairman of the subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, I fully support Mr. Stupak’s bill and its expeditious treatment on the suspension calendar. It’s important for the American people to know that we are on the ball and are moving quickly to address their concerns. I urge the members of the House to pass this legislation,” Rush added.
05.25.2007	Rep. Rush statement below: WASHINGTON, DC—On Thursday, May 24, 2007 the House voted on two amendments to the Senate-passed version of HR 2206, U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act. The two amendments were the result of contentious negotiations between Democratic congressional leaders and the administration following the president's veto of the earlier Iraq funding bill. The previous bill, HR 1591, would have required the withdrawal of most U.S. troops from Iraq by April 2008. The two amendments brought to the Floor of the House on Thursday, May 24th would provide $120 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and would also fund other domestic priorities that were important to Democrats. The first House amendment, which I supported, appropriated $22.15 billion for domestic priorities including military base closure expenses, veterans' health care, SCHIP, hurricane relief, homeland security and agriculture disaster aid. This amendment also increased the minimum wage by $2.10 an hour to $7.25 an hour, and included several tax breaks for small businesses. I supported this amendment because I believe it is past time that we stop sending our resources overseas but instead began to take care of the priorities here at home which affect millions of Americans. The second House amendment, which I did not support, provided $94.7 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The measure did not address the issue of troop withdrawals from Iraq, and it did not place conditions on funding depending on improvements made on the ground by the Iraqi military and government. Instead, this measure established 18 "benchmarks" for the Iraqi government, and required the president to report on progress towards meeting the benchmarks. The measure permitted — but did not require — the president to withhold reconstruction funds if the benchmarks were not met. I voted against this measure because we cannot continue to give this President carte blanche in conducting this ill-conceived war without holding the administration or the Iraqi government accountable. In the previous supplemental bill I voted for Representative McGovern’s (MA/03) amendment, which required the President to begin redeploying our troops home within 3 months. I believe that it is time to bring an end to this misguided war, and Congress must send a message to the Iraqis, that our sons and daughters will not continue to shed blood to defend their country indefinitely. After years of having a free reign, with no accountability, consultation, or oversight from Congress, it is imperative that the President be compelled to listen to the will of Congress, and therefore the will of the American people. Winning the war in Iraq will require a political and diplomatic offensive, not sending more of our men and women into harm’s way to facilitate a civil war. I am disappointed that both spending measures passed the House and the Senate and the President will be given the funding to continue the war unchecked. However, this is not the end of the battle to begin redeploying our troops from Iraq. I will continue to push my colleagues to force the administration to change course in Iraq and to bring our troops home when we begin deliberations on war funding in the fall.
05.23.2007	{WASHINGTON, DC (May 23, 2007)— As Chicago faces the highest gas prices in the country, Illinois Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D) moved important high gas relief legislation thru Congress today. As chairman of the subcommittee he managed the movement of the bill to the House floor, which passed with a two-thirds vote in favor of H.R. 1252, the “Federal Price Gouging Protection Act.” “Gasoline prices are now at record highs. Now rising gas prices are one thing, and I fully recognize the reality of global oil markets, the current state of our refinery capacity, and the basic laws of supply and demand,” said Rep. Rush. “But the gouging of American consumers is another matter entirely, and the bill on the House floor today, ensures that American consumers are protected from companies that would prey on them during emergencies when they are most vulnerable.” H.R. 1252: “Federal Price Gouging Protection Act” will protect legitimate businesses, but penalize price gougers. A key part of the bill, sponsored by Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI), includes the prohibition of wholesale or retail sale of gasoline or other petroleum distillates at prices that are unconscionably excessive or take unfair advantageof consumers. The federal government would be allowed to impose tough civil and criminal penalties for those who manipulate or gouge prices. The bill also gives enforcement powers to the Federal Trade Commission which includes the issuing of fines that would be applied to Low Income Home Energy Assistant programs nationwide. “I want to commend Mr. Stupak for a fine piece of legislation that is thoughtful and careful in its scope. On the one hand, the bill is tough and decisive. It gives the Federal Trade Commission the tools to crack down on and punish those companies that would price gouge American consumers by unscrupulously taking advantage of unique energy shortages and unconscionably raising the price of gasoline on American consumers,” said Rush. “As chairman of the subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, I fully support Mr. Stupak’s bill and its expeditious treatment on the suspension calendar. It’s important for the American people to know that we are on the ball and are moving quickly to address their concerns. I urge the members of the House to pass this legislation,” Rush added.
05.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush received the 2007 Capitol Hill Award from the National Bible Association for An Exemplary Commitment to Bible Reading by a National Leader on May 17, 2007. The award is being presented by the National Bible Association, which recognizes leaders who—following a long and rich national tradition—quote the Bible in their decisions. Founded in 1940, the National Bible Association is a non-profit, independent educational association operating in the public square. Composed of business and professional leaders, the Association is focused exclusively on encouraging America to read the Bible in every sector of society regardless of religious or political distinction.
05.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – A hearing held by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee Chairman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) yesterday revealed serious shortcomings in the country’s consumer product review system. “It is unfortunate that the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) reportedly failed to do its job to protect this young child. The CPSC must respond immediately to warnings and complaints in an effective and efficient manner,” said Rep. Rush, chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. “If the federal government cannot deliver on this basic responsibility to help parents keep their children away from avoidable hazards, then we are not doing our job. As chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, I intend to do all I can to solve this terrible problem,” he added. The roughly four-hour hearing examined the authority and budget of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), one of the smallest government agencies. Witnesses shared stories of children who had been severely injured or killed due to products that had not been properly reviewed, or that had not been recalled quickly enough. Rep. Rush (D-IL) cited a recent Chicago Tribune story that reported on the death of Kenny Sweet, Jr., a three-year-old who died after swallowing powerful magnets that fell out of a toy. “What I want to take away from this hearing—what I want to understand—is why it took the Chicago Tribune to do a thorough, investigative story on Magnetix to finally get this product off the shelves,” said Rush. Nancy Nord, Acting Chairman of CPSC, acknowledged that the Commission needs additional funding and staff in order to function properly. “Specific product issues, like small magnets in toys, which have been recently highlighted by the media, indicate how great a challenge we continue to face,” she said during her testimony to the Committee. “With a total nationwide staff of just over 400, and an annual budget of just over $60 million, we simply cannot be at all places at all times.” Alan Korn, policy director of Safe Kids Worldwide, testified that more children aged 14 and younger die from unintentional injuries than from all childhood diseases combined. Several related bills are pending in the 110th Congress, including bills that address pool safety, amusement park rides, nursery furniture and gasoline burns. After the hearing, Chairman Rush pledged to undertake a thorough review of CPSC’s operating statutes and issue a comprehensive reform package. View the hearing via webcast at: https://energycommerce.house.gov/cmte_mtgs/110-ctcp-hrg.051507.Product.safety.shtml
05.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON, DCU.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) held a hearing today titled H.R. 1902, the Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs Act that focused on saving consumers money on prescription drugs. Todays hearing focuses on an alarming practice in the pharmaceutical industry that is costing American consumers billions of dollars. Brand name drug companies are paying generic drug companies to stay off the market, said Rep. Rush, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. They are denying consumers the considerable savings they should otherwise receive from generic competition in their prescription drug costs. The proposed legislative solution will focus on reverse consideration or exclusive payments in patent legal settlements between brand name and generic drug companies. The intent of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act is to promote aggressive generic entry into the marketplace in order to provide consumers with considerable savings in their prescription drug costs. Recent court cases have made it more difficult to bring antitrust cases to stop exclusion payment settlements between brand manufacturers and their generic competitors, said FTC Commissioner Jon Leibowitz. The impact of the court rulings is becoming evident in the marketplace. As a result of anti-competitive collusion, however, abetween brand-name and generic pharmaceutical companies, the intent of Hatch-Waxman is being undermined. Consumers are not reaping the full rewards of robust generic competition because many brand-name and generic drug companies are exploiting the unique regulatory framework of Hatch-Waxman nd have entered into legal agreements that delay the early entry of competitive drug products. As Chairman of this subcommittee, I intend for this hearing to serve as a serious policy discussion and as a first step towards correcting a market failure that is costing American consumers billions of dollars in prescription drug costs, said Rush.
05.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.The U.S. Congress Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health held a hearing today to learn more about the harmful effects of postpartum depression on new mothers and what Congress can do to keep mothers from potentially harming themselves and their babies.Research indicates that some form of postpartum depression affects approximately 1 in 1,000 new mothers resulting in upward of 400,000 new cases each year, said Rep. Rush during the hearing. Rush first introduced this bill in January of 2003 and has been a persistent advocate for better health care research and care for new mothers. Over the past few years, this Committee has agreed that supporting passage of this legislation will allow scientists, researchers, health care professionals and families across this country to combat this disease. This bill, the Melanie Blocker-Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act is long overdue and I appreciate the committees attention, support, and immediate consideration, added Rush. The bill currently has more than 100 cosponsors. Of the new postpartum cases this year, less than 15 percent of mothers will receive treatment, although scientists argue, with treatment over 90 percent of these mothers could overcome their depression. All too often postpartum depression goes undiagnosed or untreated. This is due to the social stigma surrounding depression and mental illness, the myth of motherhood, the new mother's inability to self-diagnose her condition. It is also due to the new mother's shame or embarrassment over discussing her depression so near to the birth of her child, the lack of understanding in society and the medical community of the complexity of postpartum depression, and economic pressures placed on hospitals and providers. One of the most passionate witnesses was Carol Blocker, the mother of Melanie Blocker-Stokes whom the bill is named after. Melanie took her life on June, 2001 less than five months after giving birth to her first daughter, my grandchild, Sommer Sky, said Ms. Blocker. Melanie and her husband were so happy, but six weeks after she gave birth, during a routine checkup, she said she felt hopeless and she retreated to her room. Then, as the sun rose over Lake Michigan, my beautiful daughter stepped out of a 12th floor window to her death. Various witnesses provided expert testimony on the need for more attention paid to new mothers and their overall health during the roughly two hour hearing. We need to take postpartum mental health seriously, said Dr. Nada L. Stotland, vice president of the American Psychiatric Association. If there is any evidence of postpartum difficulties, new mothers should be screened for depression. To achieve this, we need to help educate patients, families, and health professionals about the warning signs that a new mothers baby blues may, in fact, be a much more serious condition. Jerry Reed, Executive Director of the Suicide Prevention Action Network (SPAN USA) commended Rep. Rush for his effort on the Melanie Blocker Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act (H.R. 20). He noted, Melanie Blocker Stokes completed suicide after a long battle with this most severe form of the mental illness. H.R. 20 would provide immediate attention and resources towards one of the most commonly undiagnosed conditions after childbirth, postpartum depression. These efforts will hopefully lead to a reduction in suicides.The hearing was chaired by Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr, chair of the health subcommittee.###
04.16.2007	Chicago, IL. ---- I want to congratulate Mayor Richard Daley and his team for winning the right to represent the United States in competition for the Olympic Summer Games of 2016. Chicago is a great sports city with a rich tradition in excellence. I am pleased that Chicago will now have the chance to win 60 votes from the International Olympic Committee to host the Summer Games. For this to happen, the entire country must now get behind Chicago. I am confident that bringing the Olympics to Chicago will provide great benefit to the U.S., Chicago, and my constituents in the 1st Congressional District. As the chairman of the Houses subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection (which includes jurisdiction over interstate and foreign commerce, and regulation of travel and tourism), I believe that the Olympics can and must be an economic development boom for all of Chicago. I look forward to working with the city and state on the next phase of this Olympic bid. Rep. Rush is chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection which has jurisdiction over interstate and foreign commerce, including all trade matters within the jurisdiction of the full committee; Regulation of commercial practices (the FTC), including sports-related matters; Consumer affairs and consumer protection, including privacy matters generally; Consumer product safety (the CPSC), product liability; and motor vehicle safety; Regulation of travel, tourism, and time; and, Homeland security-related aspects of the foregoing, including cyber security.
04.10.2007	Chicago, IL. ---- The competition is a yearly event held in each of the 435 Congressional Districts, including the 1st Congressional District in Illinois . It highlights the importance of art education by recognizing outstanding talented young artists in their districts. The winning entries are exhibited for a year in a display in the United States Capitol Building . Any student at a public or private high school, including alternative or vocational schools, in the 1st Congressional District is eligible to submit a work of art by April 30th 2007. Artwork must be two-dimensional (no sculpture) and can be in any medium, including painting, drawing, collage, print, mixed media, computer generated or photography, no larger then 30'' by 30'' to the outside dimensions of the frame and it must be ready to hang. A panel of judges will select the winning artwork, which will be announced at a reception (May 4th 2007) This student's winning piece will represent the 1st Congressional District in the nationwide exhibit at the United Stated Capitol. This is a unique way to showcase and recognize the artistic talents of our high school students and allow one lucky student's artwork to hang in our capitol to inspire our nation's leaders everyday. If you are a high school student or know of an artistically inclined student, please contact 773-224-6500 or email Lawrence.seals@mail.house.gov . Find out if you are in the 1st district at https://civicfootprint.org/
03.08.2007	W<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />ASHINGTON, DC (March 8, 2007)U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush introduced a bill this week that will ensure that Medicare patients and their doctors have access to the most advanced diagnostic tools available. Too many people in America are dying before their time simply because they dont have access to good, preventive health care. Early and accurate diagnosis of diseases ensures preventive care, treatment and maintenance, said Rep. Rush. We must make sure that everyone, not just those with money and resources, has access to safe, affordable advance healthcare by removing unnecessary barriers. This bill will do that. Medicare patients are discouraged from taking the advice of a doctor to get various diagnostic tests for early disease detection because Medicare does not pay for such tests. The Medicare Advanced Laboratory Diagnostics Act of 2007 (H.R. 1321) sponsored by Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and Rep. Mike Ferguson (R-NJ) will update the Medicare payment polity to allow patients access to the most sophisticated tests. Specifically, the Bill will amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to improve payments under the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. Currently, clinical diagnostic laboratory tests account for less than 2 percent of Medicare spending, but influence 70 percent of healthcare decisions. Increasing access to diagnostic technology and updating the reimbursement scale for this technology will contribute to more cutting-edge technology, appropriate diagnosis, prevention strategies, and treatment therapies for patients, explained Rush. By improving our diagnostic capabilities, we will be saving the Medicare Program and American tax-payers millions, if not billions of dollars. On March 5, the bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Ways and Means for consideration. For a copy of the bill, go to: https://www.congress.gov/cgi-lis/query/z?c110:H.R.1321: ###
02.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC (Wed. 28)On the last day of Black History Month Congressman Bobby L. Rush urged the NCAA to change is discriminatory hiring practices in collegiate sports before Congress intervenes.Im committed to solving this hiring problem. Its been a problem for far too long and this issue needs to be exposed to the American public, said Rep. Rush, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection who held the congressional hearing Wed. 28. Consider the facts: Currently, only 12 Division 1-A Athletic Directors are African American. Of the 616 teams associated with the NCAA at any level, only 16 (2.6 percent) had African American head coaches last season (excluding HBCUs). While roughly 25 percent of college basketball head coaches are black, only 7 of the 119 head coaches in Division 1-A college football teams are African American. The representation for Latinos and Asian Americans is far worse. Not a single Conference Commissioner is a person of color. In athletics, we all play on a level playing field, where the rules are clear and the same for everyone. Excellence excels; race doesnt matter, said Rev. Jesse Jackson, Founder and President, Rainbow/PUSH Coalition during the hearing. (We must) extend the level playing field to the sidelines, the locker room, the office suites, and the league meetings.Collegiate athletics are often the only viable means for qualified students from disadvantaged backgrounds to receive a college education. Colleges and universities spend approximately $1.5 billion a year on athletic scholarships for approximately 380,000 student-athletes. Given that people of color make up a very large percentage of the student-athlete population, it is vital that these young men and women have access to role models and mentors from equally diverse backgrounds, explained Rep. Rush.Moreover, NCAA college sports is a multi-billion dollar industry that reaches for into numerous commercial sectors, such as network television and merchandise. The NCAA estimates that the Associations 1,000 membership colleges and universities bring in between $4 to $5 billion and spend between $5 and $6 billion a year. Given the prominence of minority athletes in this multi-billion industry, which the courts have ruled involves interstate commerce, the lack of people of color in administrative and leadership positions is troubling, said Rush. If racial discrimination (intentional or not) is a reality in the upper echelons, and people of color are not a part of the strategic, decision-making process, Congress should examine and shed light on this systemic exclusion in order to determine if further remedial action is necessary.Other witnesses included, Myles Brand, president of the NCAA, Floyd Keith, Executive Director, Black Coaches Association, Nolan Richardson, former Head Coach, University of Arkansas Basketball, Richard Lapchick, Sports Management, Tim Weiser, Athletic Director, Kansas State University, and Fitz Hill, President, Arkansas Bible College, former Head Coach, San Jose State football.Until laws are made, there is not going to be any progress. Not in my lifetime, said Richardson who said he was blackballed by the University of Arkansas for being outspoken and not being willing to accept being treated as a token. His testimony detailed the discriminatory practices he faced while head coach at the University of Arkansas.
02.14.2007	Washington D.C.--- Mr.Speaker: I rise today to voice my support for H.Con.Res. 63. Mr. Speaker, for far too long now, under a Republican-controlled Congress, and a Republican-controlled Senate, the President has been given a free hand and a blank check to conduct this war in Iraq without any oversight or accountability from this equal branch of government. Moreover, because of the Republicans unwillness, and the Democrats inability to question the President or his Administration about the why and how this war has been conducted, We now find ourselves embroiled in a civil war on foreign soil, where we are not seen as liberators, as this Administration once promised the American people. But instead in a deadly situation where American soldiers and Iraqi citizens are being targeted and killed on a daily basis with no end in sight. Mr. Speaker, many top generals and experts in this field have testified that American troop presence is acting as a catalyst to the violence there. The Iraqi people are very suspicious of this Administration and the motives of this President, and they do not view foreign soldiers in their cities and homes as something they desire. So if the Iraqis no longer want us in their country, and if the military objective, which was supposed to be to topple Saddam Hussein, has been achieved, then why do we still have hundreds of thousands of our troops there? And why on earth are we sending more troops to this unstable and volatile area, when it is obvious that the solution to this problem is a political one, not a military one. Mr. Speaker, it is high past time for the President to finally understand that he cannot solve all of the worlds problem with brute force and the American military. We must begin a serious political and diplomatic effort in the region, to hold the Iraqi government responsible for protecting its people, and to solicit commitments from Iraqs neighbours, as well as our friends and allies around the world, to help stabilize the Iraq and to rebuild that war-torn country. The Iraqi people do not want to see more American troops coming into their cities. They want their chosen leaders to step up to the plate and to protect them, and they want the foreign occupiers to leave their homeland. This is not hard to comprehend. Wouldnt we want the same thing if a foreign military came and occupied America? Mr. Speaker, this war is draining American resources and stretching our military to the point where we will not be able to protect ourselves against the real threats to our national security. To date, over 3,000 American soldiers have lost their lives in Iraq, and more than $500 billion has been appropriated for this unscrupulous war. Yet, despite these costs, neither the American people nor the Congress has been given an explanation or grounds for keeping American troops in Iraq to do the job that Iraqi soldiers should be doing for themselves. Because of grave missteps and miscalculations from the initial phases, as well as throughout the conduct of this war on behalf of the Bush Administration, the situation in Iraq has steadily declined. There is no evidence to suggest that increasing the number of American soldiers at this point will do anything other than provide more targets to the Iraqi insurgents, and make the situation in Iraq even more volatile. Even as the generals on the ground have come out against the Presidents proposal to add more troops, the Administration has once again decided to ignore the recommendations of those who know best, and go their own way in deciding strategy for this war. After being wrong on so many counts time and time again, I believe the stakes in this war are too high for us to continue to put blind trust in this Administration. The brave members of armed services who have served us so admirably deserve better. The American people, who voted for change in the November elections, deserve better. Mr. Speaker, I am against this troop surge because the American people and the Iraqi people want real change in strategy from this Administration, not more of the same. It is the job and the responsibility of this Congress to reflect the will of the people who have put us here, and demand that the Administration bring an end to this ill-fated war, not escalate it. Believe me, Mr. Speaker, it brings me no pleasure to have this debate and publicly disagree with the President, but my solemn oath to my constituents, as well as my conscience and integrity prevent me from doing anything less. It is time for us to end our occupation in Iraq. I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting H.Con. Res 63, and with that I yield my time.
02.09.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, D.C.Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection introduced major bipartisan anti-identity theft legislation yesterday that will protect consumers from identity theft. The Data Accountability and Trust Act (DATA), introduced by Reps. Bobby Rush (D-IL) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Cliff Stearns (R-FL), and 22 original cosponsors will protect consumers by requiring entities engaged in interstate commerce to have reasonable security policies and procedures to protect data containing personal information, and to provide for nationwide notice in the event of a security breach. National Consumer Protection Week (Feb. 4 - 10) is a fitting time to stop the scourge of identity theft and related abuse, said Rush. Data breaches continue at a rapid pace and constitute a major threat to consumers. We must pass comprehensive data security legislation this year. The bill (HR 958), which is currently in the Energy and Commerce committee and will be sent to the House as expeditiously as possible, will give consumers the peace of mind of knowing that their private, sensitive information is secure to the highest degree possible, added Rush. The Committee on Energy and Commerce has Rule X jurisdiction over consumer affairs and consumer protection and is the lead committee on privacy matters
02.05.2007	Washington, D.C. ---- Thank you, Madame Speaker. I rise in support of this resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Consumer Protection Week. Starting yesterday, Sunday, February 4th, through this Saturday, February 10th, National Consumer Protection Week has the purpose of highlighting consumer protection and education efforts around the nation. This is a worthy goal that Congress should enthusiastically support.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> An informed consumer is a powerful consumer. Too often, the average citizen is unaware of the litany of scams and con-jobs that infest the marketplace. Moreover, a lot of these crooks prey on consumers who have fallen on hard financial times, promising them snake-oils and quick-fixes that can magically solve all of their economic problems. These scams have real consequences on real people, and the effects can be devastating to an individual or family. However, if consumers are well-informed and armed with knowledge, they can better navigate the marketplace and avoid these financial pitfalls. National Consumer Protection Week can help in this regard. Sponsored by the Federal Trade Commission, the Better Business Bureau, AARP, Consumer Federation of America, and many other government and non-profit organizations, community leaders can access a website with an outreach toolkit to help them educate their citizens and spread the word. That web-site is www.consumer.gov/ncpw. Furthermore, on the website, consumers can get a lot of information on how to protect themselves from fraud; and it gives them tips on how to recognize a rip-off when they see one. Lastly, I would be remiss if I did not quickly mention that as the new Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, it is my intent to make this 110th Congress the National Consumer Protection Congress. This week in February is National Consumer Protection Week, but we can do so much more in the coming months ahead. By working with my partner on the other side of the aisle, Ranking Member Stearns as well as Chairman Dingell and Ranking Member Barton I believe that we can instigate many reforms to empower consumers and improve the lives of everyday Americans. Our committee is prepared to aggressively examine a whole host of basic, consumer protect, pocketbook issues, and I look forward to working with my Republican friends in the 110th Congress. With that, I reserve the balance of my time.
01.17.2007	Washington D.C. ---- Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to wish a very happy birthday to the former heavyweight champion of the world, and the undisputed greatest boxer of all time, Muhammad Ali. Mr. Speaker, Muhammad Ali never shied away from speaking his mind on issues concerning racial inequality, social injustice and human rights issues, either while he was heavyweight champion, or today, as he continues to be a world leader on these issues. Since retiring from boxing, Ali has raised over $50 million for charities here in the U.S. and around the globe, and he has delivered millions in food and medical supplies to countries throughout Africa and Asia. He has been on international aid missions to Cuba, and he played a key role in getting American hostages released from Iraq before the start of the Persian Gulf War. Muhammad Ali's penchant for peacemaking was recognized by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1998 when Ali was named a U.N. Messenger of Peace. While serving at the U.N., he also worked to build the Muhammad Ali Center in his hometown of Louisville, KY, to promote respect, hope and understanding among all people, and which strives to help all individuals realize the greatness within them. Standing on principle and never casting aspersions on those who challenged his moral convictions, Ali objected to the war in Vietnam, and refused to be inducted into the U.S. Army in 1967. As a consequence, Ali was indicted for draft evasion, convicted, and was stripped of his boxing title. Eventually Ali was ultimately vindicated in the United States Supreme Court, which overturned his conviction, by a unanimous vote in 1971, but not before losing valuable years of his livelihood and being wrongly accused of being unpatriotic and disloyal to the country he loved so dearly. Muhammad Ali would regain his boxing title in 1974, but far more important was the manner in which he wore the mantle of champion. Mr. Speaker, Muhammad Ali is not only one of the greatest athletes of our time, he has become one of the most recognized and beloved people in the world, and he insists on using his celebrity to help his fellow man and woman. His athletic prowess made him famous, but it is his heart and good deeds that will have cemented his place in our hearts forever. Muhammad Ali is a hero in every sense of the world, and we all owe him a debt of gratitude for his role in making America a more conscientious and better country. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" />
01.17.2007	Washington D.C.- Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to voice my strong support for H.R. 5, the College Student Relief Act. This important piece of legislation will make it easier for all students to attend college, and help reduce the burden on middle class families struggling to give their children a chance for a greater future with more opportunities. Madam Speaker, if education is truly a priority of this country and this government, then let us act now and put our money where our mouth is. There is nothing more important to the future of this country than providing all of our children with a great education, and preparing them for a world which they will someday be required to lead. Providing our children with the opportunity to receive an affordable college education is a legacy we can all be proud of, and is one that can define this 110th Congress in the most positive light. At a time when college education is continually skyrocketing and middle and lower class families are seeing their budgets being constantly squeezed, lowering the interest rates on college loans will help those who need it most in our society. Though some will say that the American economy has been booming over the last few years, and they will point to record increases in profits, salaries, and bonuses as proof, unfortunately Madam Speaker, many Americans have been left out of this great wealth and prosperity. Today, we have an opportunity to help all Americans. By enacting this bill we are extending the opportunity for a brighter future through education to all sectors and classes of our society. American families need this bill. America needs this bill. According to the Congressional Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance, increased college costs will prevent over 4.4 million high school graduates from entering a four-year public institution over the next decade. I repeat, over 4.4 million, students will be unable to afford a quality college education over the next decade, Madam Speaker. This restriction on higher education will not only hurt students and families, but it will have a devastating effect on our country as a whole. At a time when the global economy is becoming more competitive and America's dominance in the fields of science, math, engineering, and technology is being challenged by countries all over the world, we need to be providing more opportunity to our best and brightest students, and give those who have been stuck in the generational cycles of poverty and despair, a chance to improve their life situations, and give their families opportunities that have eluded them in the past. By the year 2020, according to the American Youth Policy Forum, the United States will be facing a dire shortage of college-educated workers that threatens our entire economy. Madam Speaker we must act now to confront this threat. I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill with bipartisan support, because doing so makes sense, and failure to do so will lead to consequences down the road that will affect our entire economy and way of life.
01.11.2007	Washington, D.C. ---- Last night, President Bush asked for a surge in troop level, but what we need is a surge in truth level. The Bush Administration lied about weapons of mass destruction, lied about Iraqs ties to terrorism and 9-11, and lied about the mission being accomplished and that we were winning the war. We must ask the question, Why are we in Iraq in the first place?We dont want to further put our troops in harms way with so many unanswered questions. The enthusiasm of the American people is not with the Presidents thinking and rightly so. People dont understand why President Bush IS talking about reconstruction in Iraq, but hes NOT talking about reconstruction in my district. Hes not talking about reconstruction when it comes to any of the poor inner cities and rural areas of America. Charity starts at home, and the poor and disenfranchised of America need economic development, schools and jobs. Look at what happened yesterday. For 10 years, the Republicans ignored minimum wage and then fought against our Minimum Wage Bill that passed the House yesterday. Then last night, Bush makes a case about sending more money to Iraq when money has already been loosely spent. How does he respond to reports that our troops currently there havent been adequately trained or equipped? Before Congress signs off on more money in Iraq, we need to know how the $9.5 billions dollars of money that already went to Iraq has been used. We need to know if our armed forces ready. We need to know how we will handle an emergency in another part of the world if called upon if we have more troops in Iraq. I have been a part of the congressional Get Out of Iraq Caucus because I believe we should get our troops out of Iraq and let the Iraqis deal with their own problems of governance.
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. Yesterday, Rep. Bobby L. Rush voted for bipartisan legislation increasing the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years benefiting nearly 13 million American workers and their families. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 315 to 116. The critical needs of Americas working families have been ignored for far too long, said Rep. Rush. That is why House Democratic leadership brought H.R. 2, a bill to increase the federal minimum wage, to the floor during the first full week of the 110th Congress. Consumer costs from energy to health care to education have risen by $5,000 at the same time American families have seen their real income drop by almost $1,300 since 2000. The minimum wage, which has remained unchanged for nearly 10 years, is at its lowest value in more than half a century, Rep. Rush commented. A pay raise for 13 million workers nationwide. It is wrong to have millions of Americans working full-time and year-round and still living in poverty. The H.R. 2 will increase the minimum wage by $2.10 from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. The bipartisan bill raises the minimum wage to $5.85 60 days after enactment; to $6.55 one year later; and to $7.25 one year after that. This would mean an additional $4,400 per year for a family of three, equaling 15 months of groceries, or over two years of health care helping them to keep up with rising costs. Raising the minimum wage is the first step to a stronger economy for all Americans, not just for the privileged few, said Rep. Rush. Our action today will make a real difference in the lives of Americas working families.
01.10.2007	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 9)At an organizational caucus yesterday, the Democrats on the Committee on Energy and Commerce nominated Rep. Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) to chair the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection. The nomination is subject to a vote by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee and the full Democratic caucus. I am honored to be nominated to chair such an important subcommittee, said Congressman Rush. This subcommittee will give me the chance to serve the American people in an even greater capacity. The jurisdiction of the Rep. Rushs subcommittee as it current stands will be: interstate and foreign commerce, including all trade matters within the jurisdiction of the full committee regulation of commercial practices (the FTC), including sports-related matters consumer affairs and consumer protection, including privacy matters generally consumer product safety (the CPSC); product liability; and motor vehicle safety regulation of travel, tourism, and time; and, homeland security-related aspects of the foregoing, including cybersecurity. ###
01.08.2007	(<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON, DC, January 4, 2007)Immediately after being sworn in to the 110th Congress, Illinois Representative Bobby L. Rush moved to get two key bills before his congressional colleagues. Both bills will be of the first 20 bills voted on by the 110th Congress. The first, H.R. 18 is the Rosa Parks Bill that will honor Rosa Parks, a true pioneer of the Civil Rights Movement, with a U.S. postal stamp with her likeness on it. The second is H.R. 20 which is also known as the Melanie Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act seeks to expand and intensify medical research on the causes, diagnosis and treatments of postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis. Rep. Rush looks forward to continuing to represent the residents of the 1st District of Illinois whom have given him another opportunity to serve this historic, culturally diverse, lively, unique, and cultural hub of American life. I am excited and pleased that the voters of the 1st District of Illinois had enough confidence and trust in my leadership skills, vision, and commitment to elect me to my 8th term of Congress, said Rep. Rush. I am committed to making sure that the 110th Congress represents the issues, needs and concerns of my district. My first bill introduced this year reflects the need for our historical contributions to be recognized. The second bill seeks to alleviate some of the health care issues affecting Black women. Regional Whip position Recognized for his leadership skills and effectiveness, he was also appointed as a Regional Whip for region 4 today where hell be representing five states for the Democratic Leadership in the U.S. House. The primary role of Regional Whip is to keep track of Members' voting records within the region, and "whip," or convince, undecided Members to vote for Democratic policies. With this position, Rush will have increased input during policy formulation, and more influence in advocating positions favorable to Illinois residents. Rep. Rush, as a Regional Whip, will work with House Democrats from Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. The core of the 1st District begins at the tip of Bronzeville and stretches out across many other historic neighborhoods in the City of Chicago including, Auburn-Gresham, Chatham, Englewood, Hyde Park/Kenwood, Morgan Park, West Englewood and Woodlawn and also includes part or all of several south suburban areas: Alsip, Blue Island, Crestwood, Dixmoor, Evergreen Park, Markham, Midlothian, Oak Forest, Orland Hills, Palos Heights, Posen, Robbins, Tinley Park and Worth.
12.08.2006	WASHINGTONCongressman Bobby Rushs Nursing Relief for Disadvantaged Areas Act was reauthorized Dec. 6. This Nursing Relief Act addresses the immediate nursing shortage in the 1st District of Illinois and will be in effect for an additional three years. Health care is a basic human right. The hallmarks of civilized nations are health care, education and democracy, said U.S. Rep. Rush. We must continue to fight for safe, affordable health care for all. One hospital greatly affected by the Nursing Relief Act was St. Bernard Hospital. Situated in the Englewood community, a poor, urban neighborhood with a high incidence of crime is primarily served by St. Bernards Hospital. This small community hospitals emergency room averages approximately 31,000 visits per year; 50% of their patients are Medicaid recipients and 35% receive Medicare. Prior to the creation of a non-immigrant visa (H1-C) St. Bernard could not attract nurses into the Englewood area and was forced to hire temporary nurses to service its patients. This resulted in St. Bernard nursing expenditures to increase in the millions. The Nursing Relief Act sets up a process in order to allow foreign educated nurses to temporarily work in the United States.
12.07.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON Congressman Bobby L. Rush stood with other congressional leaders, the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) and a growing coalition who pledged Dec. 7 to continue their efforts to protect consumers from car title fraud. In the industry, this unscrupulous practice is also known as car title washing. Its a shame that the unsuspecting consumer is preyed on by unscrupulous individuals trying to make a quick buck by washing car titles of damage information, said Rush. And in the end, the only thing washed is hardworking peoples bank account. Weve got to clean up the dirty business of car title washing. Five million vehicles were totaled last year. Due to water damage, severe accident, theft, etc., insurance companies may declare a vehicle a total loss. Each year thousands of these vehicles are resold at salvage auctions, rebuilt, and re-enter the market with a clean vehicle title. Unsuspecting consumers and dealers may buy these rebuilt wrecks without knowing the extensive damage to the vehicle. More than 500,000 cars were severely damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. There are many reasons why rebuilt wrecks are reintroduced to the market without clear tracking, explained Rep. Rush. First, many state motor vehicle titling laws are incomplete and confusing. Second, many rebuilt cars are re-titled in a state far away from where the damage took place. Third, consumers lack timely access to the vehicle identification number or the Department of Motor Vehicle title data. Congress should pass legislation that would permanently red-flag these severely damaged vehicles reducing the likelihood that these dangerous cars will end up in a consumers driveway. Additionally, any legislation should require insurance companies to reveal the reason for the total loss (flood, collision, stolen, etc.), the date of total loss, the odometer reading on that date, and whether or not the airbag deployed. Rush vowed to work in Congress to help protect consumers. Working together, we can ensure that consumers have all necessary information about a vehicles history to make an informed decision so that unsafe vehicles are kept off the road, he said. I am committed to fighting for hardworking consumers by helping to clean up this dirty business of car title washing. Rep. Rush has been a member of Congress since 1992. For more information about Congressman Rush, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
12.06.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- Mission Specialist Joan Higginbotham will make her first trip into outer space on December 7, 2006 as part of NASAs Vision for Space Exploration program. This mission is special for the state of Illinois because Higginbotham is a native Chicagoan. Higginbotham is a graduate of Whitney M. Young Magnet High School, Chicago, in 1982; received a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, in 1987, a Masters of Management from Florida Institute of Technology in 1992, and a Masters in Space Systems from Florida Institute of Technology in 1996. We should all be both happy and proud that Joan Higginbotham, an African American woman from Chicago is going into space for her first time, said U.S. Representative Congressman Bobby L. Rush. Not only is she a great role model for African Americans and women, but for all Americans. She will be helping to bring us one step closer to fulfilling the Vision for Space Exploration program. This courageous woman embodies the spirit of boldly going where very few people have gone before.
11.29.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- My recent remarks toward Mayor Daley as reported in both the Sun-Times and Tribune on November 29 were taken as an endorsement by some, but I have not made an endorsement in the upcoming 2007 mayoral race.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> The remarks were made in the backdrop of the new technology facility being established at IIT where the mayor and I shared compliments of each other. I was asked by a reporter does Mayor Daley deserve to be mayor. Yes, he does. Dorothy Brown, an accomplished attorney and public servant deserves to be mayor. Bill Dock Walls an accomplished attorney and public servant deserves to be mayor. Ultimately, at the end of the day, when the votes are counted, the people will decide who deserves it most. I admire the history and commitment of mayoral candidate Dorothy Brown and I believe she has a great record of public service, but I do believe that her recent statements to the media was an overreaction and hopefully not made for any political gain at my expense. I want to make it clear that for the past 40 years I have been and will continue to be a strong critic against police brutality, torture, and murder. In fact, police brutality was an issue I raised to the media and was mentioned by the media. And as head of the city, the buck does stop with the mayor in terms of hired truck, city hiring and minority contracting scandals as well as police misconduct. But we must make sure that not only are issues of violence and corruption on the table, but health care, jobs, education, and economic development is on the table as well
11.16.2006	WASHINGTON, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />DC, November 16, 2006Illinois Congressman Bobby L. Rush is excited about the high level of unity and cooperation displayed by the Democratic Party despite the previous House Majority position disagreement. The most important thing for today is that the Democratic Party is united, committed, and ready to work on behalf of the American people, said U.S. Rep. Rush, who voted for Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the newly elected House Majority leader. This means that not only will I have the opportunity to advocate for the people of the 1st District of Illinois, but in my 8th term as a democratic congressman, I will be in a position to help shape and influence policies for the betterment of our country, Rush added. House Democrats met this morning to elect their leadership for the upcoming 110th Congress. House Democrats nominated Nancy Pelosi of California to serve as Speaker. Democrats also elected James E. Clyburn of South Carolina as Majority Whip, Rahm Emanuel of Illinois as chairman of the Democratic Caucus, and John B. Larson of Connecticut was re-elected as caucus vice chairman. On November 7, Congressman Bobby L. Rush was elected to his 8th term of Congress. He has been a member of Congress since 1992.
11.14.2006	WHAT: Congressman Bobby L. Rush and various city and utility representatives will be present to provide important information to Chicago residents on how to apply for various utility grants to both pay for current bills and/or get service turned back on, get info on pending CEDA applications and learn how to apply for services through the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> WHO: U.S. Congressman Bobby L. Rush, along with representatives from Peoples Gas, ComEd, and Illinois Dept. of Healthcare and Family Services, and CEDA WHEN: Saturday, November 18, 2006 from 9:00 AM 3:00 PM WHERE: Foster Park Gymnasium located 1440 W 84th St.
09.27.2006	Washington, D.C. On Tuesday, U.S. Representatives and Bobby Rush (D-Ill) and Phil English (R-PA)introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 6175, the Medigap Access Improvement Act, to expand access to Medigap supplemental insurance to include all Americans with disabilities. Currently only 24 states mandate that Medigap be offered to those in Medicare due to disability. "This legislation will level the playing field for all Medicare beneficiaries to access supplemental insurance, regardless of the state in which they live," said Rush, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "Beneficiaries who quality for Medicare due to disability deserve the same options for meeting their financial responsibilities as other program participants. I urge my colleagues to join us in this effort." "Faced with already high medical expenses, the 20 percent coinsurance under Part B forces disabled beneficiaries to bear the brunt of an unfair financial burden for life-saving treatments," said English, a member of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. "While the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania guarantees supplemental coverage for our disabled, other states do not. We must move to fix this long standing inequity in Medicare and establish a federal standard for equal access to these policies." Under current law, Americans qualify for Medicare due to disability and rely on Part B coverage to access essential medical treatments. Under Medicare Part B, which provides coverage for doctors services, outpatient hospital care and diagnostic tests among other services, there is an annual deductible of $124.00 for covered care. After the deductible, beneficiaries are required to pay a 20 percent coinsurance of the services received. Often times, beneficiaries will purchase supplementary coverage, known as "Medigap," through private insurers to cover these costs. In many states, Medigap open enrollment protections provided to aged beneficiaries are not extended to those who qualify for Medicare because they are disabled. To date, only 24 states mandate that Medigap be offered to those in Medicare due to disability. The Medigap Access Improvement Act would update the Medicare program to guarantee access to Medigap supplemental policies for disabled beneficiaries enrolled in Part B. Expanding existing Medigap enrollment protections to include beneficiaries with disabilities who are under the age of 65 will help disabled Americans obtain assistance with the high costs of life-saving therapies without placing any financial or administrative burden on the Medicare program. In addition, this change will level the playing field by providing the same opportunity to purchase the Medigap policies offered to beneficiaries age 65 and older. "With this bill, millions of disabled Americans will finally be able to meet their Medicare cost sharing responsibilities and maintain access to the life-saving treatments they need," the sponsors concluded. The Medigap Access Improvement Act has been endorsed by the National Hemophilia Foundation, the Hemophilia Federation of America, the Committee of Ten Thousand, and the Guillain-Barr Syndrome/Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (GBS/CIDP) Foundation International among others.
09.19.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- WVON is a Chicago institution and has been a pillar of the African American community for many years but with its partnership with Clear Channel they will now be able to expand their service. Starting Monday, WVON will reach many more listeners with a new 10,000 watt signal and the ability to broadcast 24 hours a day from its new location at the formally oldies formatted Clear Channel station 1690-AM on the radio dial. The WVON and Clear Channel deal is a great opportunity for African American talk radio in the Chicago area. This will give African Americans a stronger voice in addressing important community issues with the expanded talk format and larger reach available through this arrangement. I commend these two local broadcasters, WVON and Clear Channel for coming to this historic agreement, said Representative Rush. This deal is in the public interest of all Chicagoans and I look forward to hearing the many new programs that will be offered with the extended time WVON will be on the air. This will bring new opportunities to the African American community and business leaders in Chicago.
07.21.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON (July 21, 2006) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that Blair Matthews of Midlothian, Illinois has been selected as his sponsored congressional page for the First Congressional District. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Blair Matthews currently attends Mount Carmel High School, and will be a junior in the Fall of 2006. Pages are young people who are hired to serve as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives. They are students in their junior year of high school, who come to Washington, D.C. to live, work and study as Pages. Students applying for the academic must have at least a 3.0 G.P.A. to be eligible for the House Page Program. All potential pages/students must be sponsored by a Member of Congress. Pages are selected through the Offices of the House Minority Leader, and the Speaker of the House. They act as employees of the House of Representatives. Pages get the unique opportunity to interact with congressional staff, members of Congress, presidential appointees, and heads of State. Other duties include handling legislative materials, and preparing the U.S. House of Representatives Floor for legislative sessions. Pages are supervised by full-time adult employees, and report to the House after classes and work until 5 PM or when the House of Representatives adjourns for the day, whichever is later.
06.23.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- In light of the alleged terror plot targeting Sears Tower, U.S. Representatives Bobby L. Rush, Jan Schakowsky, Luis Gutierrez, Danny K. Davis, Jesse Jackson Jr., Rahm Emanuel, Daniel Lipinski and U.S. Senators Dick Durbin and Barack Obama today sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff requesting that the Bush Administration quickly implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission in order to secure Chicago and the nation from another terrorist attack. These members of Congress further requested that Secretary Chertoff meet with Chicagos congressional delegation to discuss the agencys progress in filling the holes in our security infrastructure and response programs. The full text of the letter is below: Secretary Chertoff: We write today on behalf of our constituents and residents of the Chicagoland area, who want to ensure that the federal government is doing everything it can to secure our city and to prevent another terrorist attack in the United States. No matter what we learn about the scope of the recently announced alleged plot targeting buildings in the U.S, including Chicago, the arrests make clear that bolstering our homeland security must be the first front in the War on Terror. The Bush Administration and the Republican Congress have yet to implement a number of recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and the Government Accountability Office that are leaving our ports and our plants, our trains and our airlines, and the American people, vulnerable to another terrorist strike on our soil. RISK BASED FUNDING. The 9/11 Commission recommended that state and municipal homeland security funding be allocated based on risk and vulnerabilities (not political influence). The 2006 Urban Area Grant Locations, issued by the Department of Homeland Security, significantly cut funding for the two cities at the top of the list New York and Washington DC -- while increasing funding for cities like Omaha and Louisville. POLICE AND FIRE. The 9/11 Commission recommended that the Department of Homeland Security and its oversight committees should regularly assess the types of threats the country faces, in order to determine the adequacy of the governments plans and the readiness of the government to respond to those threats. However it has become clear that our governments plans have been inadequate. A recent needs analysis identified that nationally 28 percent of firefighters per shift are not equipped with a self-contained breathing apparatus, and 39,000 fire fighters lack personnel protective clothing. And the FY07 Homeland Security Appropriations bill contains a 39 percent reduction in state homeland security grants. To make matters worse, the Department of Homeland Security has not even distributed the appropriated FY06 security grant funds to the states. TRANSIT/RAIL SECURITY. The 9/11 Commission recommended that strategies be developed for neglected parts of our transportation security system, specifically focused on mass transit. DHS has provided only $416 million since 9/11 to secure our nations transit systems even though the mass transit industry estimates that $6 billion is needed for security training, radio communication systems, security cameras, and limiting access to sensitive facilities. AVIATION SECURITY. The 9/11 Commission recommended that all passengers and carry-on bags be screened for explosives and that in-line explosive detection systems be installed as quickly as possible. The FY07 Homeland Security appropriations bill does not fund any additional in-line screening systems beyond the current 8 approved airports and a Democratic amendment to provide an additional $200 million more to expand explosive screening systems was defeated by Republicans in Committee. CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY. The federal government requires no security standards for most U.S. chemical plants. In 2003, the Government Accountability Office recommended that the Administration develop a comprehensive national chemical security strategy which the Administration just released in May, 2006. The strategy asked for Congress to grant DHS the authority to regulate the chemical sector. Because of an amendment by Rep. Sabo, the Secretary of Homeland Security now has the authority to do that. Now we await action by the Administration and the Republican leadership to secure our plants. Illinois has 745 chemical manufacturing facilities the 6th most of any state in the nation. Given the concerns the 9/11 Commission has raised about unmet homeland security needs, we would like to request that you meet with members of the Chicago delegation to update us on your progress in securing our city and our region our ports, our plants, our rail, our airports, our first responders, and our freshwater sources. We stand ready to work with you to advance a Congressional agenda that ensures that these holes in our security are filled as quickly as possible.
06.09.2006	WASHINGTON, DC U.S. Representatives and Chicago delegation members Bobby L. Rush and Jan Schakowsky joined with fellow House Energy and Commerce Committee members John Dingell (D-MI), Henry Waxman (D-CA), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Bart Stupak (D-MI) in sending a letter to the Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health asking that he prohibit the sale of meat and fish products treated with carbon monoxide. Rush, a senior member of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, also serves on the Subcommittee on Health. Schakowsky is the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection. The meat and fish industries have recently begun using carbon monoxide in their packaging to preserve the coloration of meat and fish long after the products have expired. This practice could easily deceive consumers. In a March 6 editorial, the Tribune noted that appearance especially color is the number one factor in selecting a package of meat, and that this practice smacks of deceptive marketing. The Chicago City Council is considering a ban on using carbon monoxide in meat packaging. Many of my constituents already disproportionately suffer from the lack of access to fresh produce and meat, said Rush, and to knowingly allow the meat and fish industries to treat their products with carbon monoxide as a means to preserve coloring is a deceptive practice that must be ceased immediately. This tactic, along with misleading labeling poses severe health risks and is nothing more than predatory behavior on the people we are charged to protect. The meat and fish industries are using scientific tricks to push spoiled products on consumers. For busy moms and speed shoppers, the color of meat and fish is the first indicator that the product is okay to eat, said Representative Jan Schakowsky, whose career as a consumer advocate began by winning a fight to require freshness date labeling on food. Carbon monoxide does nothing to preserve food; instead, it disguises spoiled food to make consumers think its fresh. It should be banned from meat and fish packaging. -more- Rush, Schakowsky ask IL Dept. of Public Health to Ban Carbon Monoxide/ page 2 A full copy of the letter to Eric Whitaker, the Director of the Illinois Department of Health, is below: Dear Director Whitaker, We are writing to ask you to use your authority to prevent the sale of meat and fish products treated with carbon monoxide (CO). Alternatively, we ask that you ensure that labeling for such products include a very clear and protective use or freeze by date, and that consumers are aware that they cannot rely on product color to determine the safety of meat or fish at retailers that carry such products. We understand that the expiration dates on some of these potentially dangerous products are illegible and the dates themselves may not provide adequate protection against toxins (studies vary widely). By letters dated February 9, 2006, and March 30, 2006 (attached), we requested that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Food and Drug Administration remove meat treated with carbon monoxide from the market until industry claims that such products were safe could be assessed through a public notice and comment hearing procedure as required by law. Those letters and their attachments document the risk to Americans from meat and fish treated with carbon monoxide to prevent the deterioration in color that consumers rely upon to determine whether or not such products are wholesome. We understand that many large grocery stores, as well as many smaller independent stores and butcher shops, refuse to carry such products. But where these products are sold, consumers are at risk and could use your help. Thank you for your attention to this matter. If your have any questions, please contact David Nelson of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Democratic staff at 202-226-3400. Sincerely, JAN SCHAKOWSKY BOBBY L. RUSH JOHN D. DINGELL HENRY A. WAXMAN BART STUPAK EDWARD J. MARKEY
06.09.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON (June 9, 2006) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that the Communications, Opportunity Promotion and Enhancement Act of 2006 (H.R. 5252), also known as the COPE Act, passed overwhelmingly last night with bipartisan support, innovation and consumer interests as the backbone. The final vote was 321 to 121. Congressman Rush, who was the leading Democratic sponsor on the bill, expressed great enthusiasm for the bright outlook of the telecommunications industry and what it means for consumers with the passage of the bill. Yesterdays passage of the Communications, Opportunity Promotion and Enhancement Act of 2006 opens the door for much needed competition in the video market, which will spur advances in technology, diverse programming and ownership opportunities, as well as provide critical relief of steep cable costs for consumers, said Rush. I was clear about serving the interests of my constituents, and passage of this bipartisan bill proves that the rest of the nation deserves the same high priority treatment. Congressman Rush was key in drafting provisions of the bill that prohibits discrimination on the basis of income and gives the FCC the power to revoke the cable providers national franchise, with assessed penalties up to $500,000 per day. Additionally, Rush also worked to ensure the Cope Act sets the stage for increased diversity in programming and ownership by requiring video (cable) service providers to provide access to leased channels to qualified minority owners. Competition has always served as the catalyst for innovation, but it has also served as the driver of building enhanced services and multi-layered opportunities for underserved groups and populations. The Cope Act represents a huge step in providing equal access and equal opportunities in an industry that advances our thoughts, emotions and actions.
06.05.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- (June 5, 2006) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) a member of the House Energy Commerce Committee will serve as guest speaker during the American Public Power Associations National Conference on Monday, June 12, 2006 at 7:00 a.m. at the Hyatt Regency Hotel (East Wacker Drive location) in Chicago. This event is being hosted by the PowerPAC, in conjunction with APPAs National Conference, will be attended by public power system managers, utility executives and local elected officials from around the country. PowerPAC, the political action committee of the American Public Power Association, is an organization comprised of public power professionals from throughout the country}
06.05.2006	WASHINGTON (June 5, 2006) - The National Fuel Funds Network (NFFN) has selected Congressman Bobby L. Rush to receive their Extra Mile Award, for his successful efforts in securing in increasing funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The award is presented annually to the national legislator who has walked the extra mile in support of LIHEAP. Congressman Rush will receive the award on Monday, June 12, 2006 at a ceremony in during the NFFNs national conference at the American Gas Association headquarters in Washington, D.C. Representative Rush (D-IL) is being honored for his persistent work in securing passage of the Rush amendment, which increased LIHEAPs authorization level to $5.1 billion, which set the stage for the eventual legislation providing $1 billion in additional funds for LIHEAP for the current fiscal year. Back in March, Congressman Rush was involved in bringing an addition $74 million in LIHEAP funding to Illinois to help area residents deal with the rising energy costs. That same month, he met with President Bush and urged him to fully fund LIHEAP.
06.01.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- (June 1, 2006) - In conjunction with the Chicago Rehab Network, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will be among the conveners at the free Southside Housing Summit, which will examine the scope of the South Side housing crisis and possible ways to save dwindling affordable housing on Saturday, June 3, 2006 at Martin Luther King High School, 4445 S. Drexel Blvd, Chicago, IL, from 8:30 a.m. 1:00 p.m. Congressman Rush will serve as keynote speaker. With the rise in popularity and soaring real estate prices on the South Side, I am concerned about the future of affordable housing as it threatens to push residents to the suburbs or other parts of the city, said Rush, who has been active in housing issues throughout the First Congressional District. This Summit presents an opportunity for all levels of government, residents, owners and community leaders to work together, and come up with viable solutions that preserves affordable housing options. The Chicago Rehab Network estimates that the City of Chicago stands to lose over 9,000 of 12,400 units tied to affordable rental housing programs. Our goal isnt creation of a new entity, but a desire to help organizations, community and political leaders dealing with housing issues look at how we can protect rental housing public dollars were used to build, finance or maintain, said Kevin Jackson, executive director of the Chicago Rehab Network. The federal government currently has contracts with property owners, who receive subsidies for renting some apartments in their buildings at below market rates. These subsidized apartments are not linked to individual housing vouchers, but are kept affordable by the contracts between owners and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Every contract that expires means fewer options for low- and moderate- income renters. The Summit will include residents, community and political leaders, owners, local federal housing officials, and other stakeholders. Attendees will have an opportunity to speak to government officials, network with community leaders and building owners. The Summits goals are to provide factual information, help community leaders and building owners better understand options and resources available for housing preservation, meet public officials, forge partnerships, and make saving these units part of community planning efforts. Additional summits are being considered to highlight the crisis in other parts of the city. For more information about Congressman Rush, please visit www.house.gov/rush. For more information about the Chicago Rehab Network, please visit www.chicagorehab.org.
05.09.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- The state of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Illinois has lost a strong advocate for childrens and womens issues with the passing of State Rep. Lovana Lou Jones, and I lost a great friend. Ive known Lou for over 40 years, and her sense of selflessness for her constituents, enduring love for her family and reverence for her colleagues and friends will be greatly missed. Lou Jones was a passionate and unequivocal advocate for the rights and the well-being of inmates in penal institutions, as well as a steadfast proponent of enhanced rights for custodial grandparents across the state. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> She was one of the founding members of Operation Push, an early and leading volunteer during Harold Washingtons 1983 mayoral campaign, and as a Clinton delegate to the 1992 Democratic National Convention; she helped secured the presidential nomination for Bill Clinton. Her involvement in these campaigns inspired others to get onboard. My wife and I were extremely close with Lou, and the magnitude of her friendship will stay with us forever.
05.09.2006	CHICAGO (May 11, 2006) - With less than five days remaining for seniors to enroll in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, Congressman Bobby L. Rush will have Medicare vendors and exhibitors on hand during his 8th Annual Congressional Reception in honor of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month on Friday, May 12 at 5:30 p.m. at the Ralph Metcalfe Federal Building (Morrison Room, #331), 77 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago. Doors open at 5:00 p.m. I am vexed by this Administrations decision to place the burden of understanding complex details of the Medicare drug benefit program on the shoulders of seniors, who are our most fragile population, said Rush. Despite thwarted efforts for an extension, Im making every effort to get the word out so our seniors can sign up in a Medicare Part D drug program that best meets their needs without penalty. By no means am I satisfied, but I am committed. Congressman Rush, a member of the Subcommittee on Health of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has co-sponsored the Medicare Informed Choice Act of 2005 (H.R. 3861), which provides for an extended period of open enrollment without penalty, allows Medicare beneficiaries to make a one-time change in the prescription program this year and provides protection from loss of employment-based retiree health coverage upon enrollment for Medicare prescription drug programs. He and fellow Members of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Illinois delegation released a report produced by the House Government Reform Committee, which exposed that the new drug benefit has failed to produce drug discounts for Chicago residents. Congressman Rush has also hosted several Medicare prescription drug benefit program seminars this year for his constituents throughout the district. According to a recent Kaiser poll reported in USA Today (April 26), half of Medicare beneficiaries were unaware of the May 15th deadline to enroll without penalty.
04.12.2006	CHICAGO (April 12, 2006) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush came out in support today of the anti-discrimination lawsuit filed by the parents, students and two of the south suburban school boards that would reverse the breakup of the South Inter-Conference Association (SICA). Looking at this case, racial segregation appears to be the motivating factor which is sad testament of the myopic vision of the leadership involved in moving forward with breaking up the south suburban high school athletic league. To shelter a child from the real world of diverse opinions, backgrounds and beliefs does little to advance our society. While many people may look at this as a minor issue of just sports, it will undoubtedly have a trickling down effect on the children involved and their impacted communities. Our children are in the skill building phase, and Im not speaking just athletically, but we are doing them a disservice as critical skills such as character, respect for others and leadership will truly suffer as a result of the unsavory decision made by proponents of the SICA breakup. Everything that our countrys greatest civil and equal rights heroes have fought for in terms of education, housing and inclusion are in a precarious state in the south suburbs with the recent news. Parents should be aware that their children with todays technology have found ways and will continue to communicate with peers of diverse backgrounds around the world. Its a shame to limit this relationship to four walls, or in this case, down I-57. Although a lawsuit is something that neither side wants, I am confident that common ground can and should be found. When we rewrite history, it should be to benefit of progress rather than a retreat to social and economic ills that hold possibilities captive.
04.12.2006	WASHINGTON (April 12, 2006) Congressman Bobby L. Rush issued a statement today in regards to the groundswell of immigration rallies across the country: We say we are a nation of opportunity, and its time for this Congress to respond with federal reform that is in the best interest of families torn my immigration rather than kowtowing to party interests. The people have spoken with a groundswell of immigration rallies around the country, and I remain steadfast in support of these families. I urge my Latino brothers and sisters to keep up the fight until we have a bill that is reflective and respective of the diversity in this country, in our workplace and in our homes. While families impacted by proposed immigration laws continue to peacefully demonstrate in the streets, I will continue the fight in the halls of Capitol Hill with my congressional colleagues. My bill (H.R. 3856) is not a symbol of change, but a demand for progress. On September 21, 2005, Congressman Bobby L. Rush introduced H.R. 3856, a bill that would grant 35 Latino individuals permanent resident states, so they can be reunited with their families in Chicago. Congressman Rush was driven to sponsor this bill with co-sponsors, Congressman Luis Gutierrez and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky out of concern for families that have been devastated under current immigration laws.
04.03.2006	WASHINGTON (March 30, 2006) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton (R-TX) heard testimony today during a hearing in the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet on their bipartisan legislation, and addressed key components of the bill, which will give consumers greater choices and lower prices for television. "This legislation represents a huge step in bringing lower prices and more choices, not only to my hard pressed constituents, but to the entire nation," Rush said. At the hearing, Rush provided greater insight into the benefits of how a national franchise process would increase competition by allowing more cable providers to enter new markets, which will result in more options, lower prices and enhanced service for consumers. Rush also highlighted key provisions of the bill that prohibits discrimination on the basis of income and gives the FCC the power to revoke the cable providers national franchise. Additionally, The Barton-Rush bill, formally known as the Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement Act of 2006 opens the doors for increased diversity in programming by requiring video (cable) service providers to provide access to leased channels to qualified minority owners. "This bill will produce an explosion of opportunity for American workers and American consumers will get an array of video services that were unimagined just a few years ago," Barton said. "Current law no longer reflects the technological and competitive reality. Congress has a responsibility to update our communications laws," he added. "The notion behind <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />America's cable laws is that competition doesn't exist, but with new competitors preparing to enter the ongoing race between cable and satellite, the law needs to change." The Barton-Rush bill will create a nationwide approval process for pay-TV services while still preserving cities' authority. In Texas, where the state legislature has already streamlined cable regulations, the city of Keller saw its cable prices fall nearly 25 percent after the local telephone carrier began offering TV. Updating cable laws will not only create exciting new cable services, it will also spur consumer demand for broadband. This will lead to significant new investments, more jobs and greater Internet capabilities that will make U.S. communities more competitive in the global marketplace. Specifically, the bill would: Create a nationwide approval process for pay-TV services. By streamlining this system, these companies will be able to offer new TV services in many areas while protecting local interests. Cable providers will also be eligible to participate in this streamlined system once they face local competition. Require Internet-based telephone services to offer 9-1-1 capabilities while ensuring Internet telephone providers have access to all necessary 9-1-1 infrastructure and technology. Clarify the FCC authority to prevent Internet service providers from blocking or degrading any content or applications delivered over the public Internet. Preserve municipalities' right to collect up to a five percent fee from pay-TV providers. Allow cities and towns to develop their own broadband networks.
03.29.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON (March 28, 2006) - I want to extend heartfelt praise and best wishes for my colleague, Rep. Lane Evans on his decision to retire. His passion for fighting on behalf of his constituents and veterans in this country will be greatly missed. A public servant for much of his life, one cannot argue with his decision to put his health needs first. We have a lost a strong voice in the U.S. Congress, the Illinois Delegation and the House Veterans Affairs Committee, where he was the ranking Democrat. Rep. Evans presence and contributions will be felt for years to come.
03.29.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- {Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-1st); Chairman Fred Hampton, Jr.; Bill Hampton; a block of religious, community and business leaders; and, the All Chicago Committee for Chairman Fred Hampton Way WHAT: Will conduct a news conference to announce a massive petition drive to advocate against any measure to stall or defeat a measure to rename a portion of Monroe Street in honor of slain Black Panther leader Fred Hampton, Sr. WHEN: Wednesday, March 29, 2006 9:00 a.m. WHERE: City Hall 2nd Floor 118 N. LaSalle, Chicago WHY: Cong. Rush and the Committee to support 2nd Ward Ald. Madeline Haithcocks proposal to rename the block of 2337 W. Monroe, where Mr. Hampton and Mark Clark were massacred in a dubious 1969 raid by members of the Chicago Police Department, in tribute of the slain leader. While Chicago police officials claim Mr. Hampton advocated the killing of police officers, history bears witness that neither Mr. Hampton, Cong. Rush, who then was the leader of the Illinois Chapter of the Black Panther Party as its minister of defense, advocated such actions unless as a means of self-defense. In addition to serving in Congress, Rep. Rush is also the Democratic committeeman for the 2nd Ward where the honorary street designation will exist.
03.29.2006	WASHINGTON (March 28, 2006) - In bipartisan legislation released yesterday, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton (R-TX) will give consumers greater choices and lower prices for television. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> "This legislation represents a huge step in bringing lower prices and more choices, not only to my hard pressed constituents, but to the entire nation," Rush said. The committee has scheduled a hearing for the Barton-Rush bill on Thursday, March 30, at 10 a.m. in room 2123 of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Rayburn House Office Building. "This bill will produce an explosion of opportunity for American workers and American consumers will get an array of video services that were unimagined just a few years ago," Barton said. "Current law no longer reflects the technological and competitive reality. Congress has a responsibility to update our communications laws," he added. "The notion behind America's cable laws is that competition doesn't exist, but with new competitors preparing to enter the ongoing race between cable and satellite, the law needs to change." -more- Rush gives consumers more option, cheaper TV in bipartisan bill/page 2 The Barton-Rush bill, formally known as the Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement Act of 2006, will create a nationwide approval process for pay-TV services while still preserving cities' authority. In Texas, where the state legislature has already streamlined cable regulations, the city of Keller saw its cable prices fall nearly 25 percent after the local telephone carrier began offering TV. "Competition drives down prices and encourages innovation," said House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. "I want to thank the members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, including my friends, Chairman Joe Barton and Reps. Bobby Rush and Fred Upton for putting consumers first as we prevent outdated regulations from stunting the growth of new pay-TV services and drive down costs by giving people more choice." Updating cable laws will not only create exciting new cable services, it will also spur consumer demand for broadband. This will lead to significant new investments, more jobs and greater Internet capabilities that will make U.S. communities more competitive in the global marketplace. U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., chairman of the Telecommunications and the Internet Subcommittee, and U.S. Rep. Chip Pickering, R-Miss., the committee's vice chairman, also expressed support for the bipartisan legislation. Specifically, the bill would: Create a nationwide approval process for pay-TV services. By streamlining this system, these companies will be able to offer new TV services in many areas while protecting local interests. Cable providers will also be eligible to participate in this streamlined system once they face local competition. Require Internet-based telephone services to offer 9-1-1 capabilities while ensuring Internet telephone providers have access to all necessary 9-1-1 infrastructure and technology. Clarify the FCC authority to prevent Internet service providers from blocking or degrading any content or applications delivered over the public Internet. Preserve municipalities' right to collect up to a five percent fee from pay-TV providers. Allow cities and towns to develop their own broadband networks.
03.22.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- U.S. Representatives Danny Davis, Rahm Emanuel, Luis Gutierrez, Jesse Jackson Jr., Dan Lipinski, Bobby L. Rush, and Jan Schakowsky, Chicagos delegation in the House of Representatives, today released a report produced by the House Government Reform Committees Democratic staff exposing that the new Medicare drug benefit has failed to provide drug discounts for Chicago residents. Representatives Schakowsky, Rush, and Lipinski hosted a hearing today with advocates, beneficiaries, and medical professionals who outlined their ongoing concerns about the Medicare drug benefits implementation around Chicago. Representative Schakowsky said, Republicans crafted this so-called benefit to protect the profits of drug and insurance companies instead of seniors and the disabled. Turning the Medicare benefit over to private drug plans is not just complicated and confusing, its incredibly costly. We must create a uniform, Medicare-administered benefit that offers affordable drugs by giving Medicare the power to negotiate for lower costs. Representative Rush noted that, this report further validates the mass confusion the new Medicare prescription drug benefit program has created as a result of partisan interest rather than the best interest of the people, said Rush. We have a serious problem in this nation when our insurance companies and the pharmaceutical industry are giving free reign to author legislation, which in this case, gravely impacts our seniors. Only a month into the implementation phase, its evident that Medicare reform is in order so our seniors can have access to affordable drugs. The Medicare prescription drug program has proven an unmitigated disaster: it is too complicated, too expensive, and has even left some seniors without their life-saving medications. At the two dozen informational seminars I have held for seniors, my heart has gone out to all those who are understandably bewildered by the program, added Lipinski. "When the Medicare drug benefit was being crafted, Congress had a real opportunity to reign in the cost of prescription drugs. We could have allowed for the importation of safe and affordable prescription drugs, for the Secretary of HHS to directly negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices and included meaningful provisions to help generics get to the market quicker" said Mr. Emanuel. "This report clearly demonstrates that the Republican Congress missed an opportunity to lower prescription drug prices in a meaningful way for our seniors." "This report illustrates what happens when Republicans use heavy-handed tactics and arm twisting to pass misguided, special interest-supported legislation -- they end up leaving our nation's seniors twisting in the wind and out in the cold," Gutierrez said. "We need a prescription drug program that actually works for seniors, and not one that just pads the profits of drug companies. We need to rewrite the law in a way that makes sense, and that starts with eliminating the indefensible law that prohibits Medicare from negotiating with the drug companies on behalf of Chicago seniors." According to the report, prescription drug prices in Chicago are 80% higher under the new Medicare prescription drug benefit than they are under prices negotiated by the federal government at other agencies like the Veterans Administration. The report also found that prescription drug prices are 65% higher than the prices available to consumers in Canada. Even the drug prices for the same drugs at Drugstore.com and Costco were cheaper than the drugs available under the Medicare drug benefit. Medicare is prevented from negotiating with the drug companies to lower costs under the 2003 law. Advocates, beneficiaries, and medical professionals reported other difficulties that the Medicare benefit is presenting. Some of those who have enrolled have been unable to get their drugs as they transition to their new plans, or because they are not shown in the system as being enrolled. Millions of beneficiaries have yet to choose a plan because they remain unable to decide between dozens of options without the support of independent counselors. A month and a half into the enrollment period, the confusion remains. Representative Schakowsky is an original sponsor and Representatives Lipinski and Emanuel are co-sponsors of H.R. 752, the Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act, which would provide a uniform, Medicare-administered drug benefit that allows Medicare to negotiate with the drug companies to keep prices down. Schakowsky is also an original sponsor and Reps. Rush, Lipinski, Gutierrez, and Emanuel are co-sponsors of H.R. 3861, the Medicare Informed Choice Act, which would give beneficiaries an additional six months to choose a plan.
03.20.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- Today, U.S. Representative Bobby L. Rush convened a historic meeting of the states top business, civic, law, government, rreligious, media/entertainment and community leaders to address the systemic problems facing a community where two girls were killed by stray bullets within a week of each other. Under the banner of the Working Group on Hope and Healing in Englewood, the leaders met at the Beloved Community Christian Church, 6440 S. Harvard, where Rep. Rush is pastor. It was the first time that many of these high profile and influential individuals united under such a banner. Cong. Rush convened the meeting in the wake of the murders of 14-year-old Starkeisa Reed and 10-year-old Siretha Woods. Both Englewood/West Englewood girls were killed in their homes by stray bullets fired from semi-automatic assault weapons. The murders led to widespread outrage across the city and has spawned several marches, rallies and news articles. Tragedy and pain brought us together, Rep. Rush said. The promise of Englewood will bring us back tomorrow. We are not here to reinvent the wheel, but to channel our energies, pool our resources and develop creative vision to move this community forward. We must focus on the fact that crime is not an Englewood problem. Crime is an American problem. We are here to ensure the deaths of Starkesia and Siretha are not repeated, but instead serve as a beginning of the end of rampant violence in this community, he said. We must stop hating and disrespecting each other and begin the process of helping and healing each other. We are all stakeholders in this process, and we all can contribute something substantive right now. Participants included Governor Rod Blagojevich, U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald, IL Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Pastor Stephen J. Thurston, president of the National Baptist Convention, Cardinal Francis George, Bill Daley, director of Midwest Operations for JP Morgan Chase, Illinois Department of Human Services Secretary Dr. Carol Adams, Illinois Department of Public Health Secretary Dr. Eric Whitaker, Dr. Wayne Watson, chancellor of City Colleges of Chicago, AT&T Illinois President Carrie Hightman, ABLE Executive Director Wendell ONeil, Arne Duncan, chief executive officer of Chicago Public Schools, Sister Elizabeth, president of St. Bernard Hospital, Chicago Police Department Chief Phil Cline, WLS-TV President and General Manager, Emily Barr, WTTW President and General Manager Dan Schmidt, Chicago Sun Times Publisher John Cruickshank, Clear Channel Regional Vice President Mark Allen, Chicago Defender Publisher Thomas Picou, Riteway Construction President Larry Huggins, Chicago Housing Authority Chairman Terry Peterson, community activists Hal Baskin, Eddie Read, Denise Dixon, Wanda White and Wallace Gator Bradley, as well as Chicago city council members Arenda Troutman, Fredrenna Lyles and LaTasha Thomas. In addition representatives from the Bureau of Firearms and Tobacco, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Administration, Team Englewood, Sony Music, Chicago White Sox/Chicago Bulls, Rebirth of Englewood Community Development Corporation, Advocate Healthcare, area churches, schools and businesses were also in attendance. The Working Group on Hope and Healing in Englewood will serve as a clearinghouse for resources, jobs and information for residents. Working groups, comprised of the various leaders in attendance, will develop both short-term and long-term solutions to address ongoing socioeconomic problems that lead to violence. In addition the panel of experts will identify local, state and federal resources available to support the on the group efforts of community-based organizations and institutions already at work in the neighborhoods. At the conclusion of the hour and thirty minute meeting, leaders agreed to Rep. Rush request to establish targeted sub committees to develop a meaningful action plan that will tackle the communities gang and drug problems; unemployment, health care and social service needs}
03.17.2006	WASHINGTON (March 17, 2006) - Although the statue of limitations has expired to press federal charges in the murder case of Emmett Till, I am counting on the State of Mississippi to deliver what the FBI cannot justice. Emmett Tills life had value 50 years ago and still does today. On behalf of his family and the American people, its time for the State of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Mississippi to bring criminal charges against any surviving co-conspirators. If we are to truly move forward in this great nation, we must rectify our past beginning with one of the most brutal murders in our history.
03.14.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 14, 2006) The Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) has named Congressman Bobby Rush (D, IL-1) as a Legislator of the Year for 2005-2006. BIO honors Representative Rush for his leadership as a co-chair of the House Biotech Caucus, BIO President and CEO Jim Greenwood stated. The Congressman has been a consistent supporter of the biotechnology industry and has sponsored numerous educational briefings to showcase the benefits of biotechnology to his colleagues in Congress. Congressman Bobby Rush has been a recognized friend of the biotechnology movement, agreed David Miller, President of the Illinois Biotechnology Organization (iBIO). In addition to serving as a Co-Chairman of the House Biotechnology Caucus, he is the recipient of iBIOs coveted Maitland Award for leadership in the biosciences here in Illinois. His BIO Legislator of the Year award is certainly well deserved. Congressman Rush will receive the BIO Legislator of the Year award tonight prior to addressing more than 200 biotechnology industry representatives from 35 states, including Illinois, participating in BIOs Legislative Day. Participants will meet with federal legislators in nearly 300 meetings to discuss issues critical to the biotechnology industry, including patent rights, the risk of drug importation, the Small Business Innovation Research program, and science-based standards for adventitious presence. BIO represents more than 1,100 biotechnology companies, academic institutions, state biotechnology centers and related organizations across the United States and in 31 other nations. BIO members are involved in the research and development of health-care, agricultural, industrial and environmental biotechnology products.
03.07.2006	WASHINGTON (March 9, 2006) - At the request of President Bush, Congressman Bobby L. Rush and several other bipartisan Members of Congress, most of whom who sit on the House Energy & Commerce Committee, met with the president to discuss his Advanced Energy Initiative, which was outlined during his State of the Union Address. During the meeting, Congressman Rush urged President Bush to fully fund the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) as authorized with the passage of his amendment under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 for $5.1 billion. A staunch champion for LIHEAP, Rush also called on Bush to fully fund the Weatherization Program. "I am disappointed by President Bushs lackadaisical response when I asked him why he has not fully funded LIHEAP. President Bushs rationale of asking for more LIHEAP funding this year than last year just does not sit well with me or the low income citizens with dire heating and cooling needs, who were counting on the full $5.1 billion. As natural gas prices continue to soar, an incremental increase will have little impact and provide minimal relief for the thousands of LIHEAP beneficiaries. Of the $5.1 billion that was authorized, President Bush proposed budget currently only calls for $2.8 billion for LIHEAP, a slight increase from the $2.16 billion last year. This meeting comes on the heels of approval by the Senate for an extra $1 billion in LIHEAP funds to help low income families offset their energy costs. The Senates bill calls for shifting $1 billion earmarked for fiscal year 2007 to be used in 2006, bringing total LIHEAP funding to $3.1 billion. Congressman Rush says he will fight for the House of Representatives to pass similar measures that were passed in the Senate, and provide immediate increased funding for LIHEAP. Whether the House votes on the Senate measure itself or takes up a separate bill that differs from the Senate language, Rush believes the House must act. The Senate has moved a bill that will provide an immediate $1 billion increase in LIHEAP funding for 2006. There is no reason why we cant do similarly in the House of Representatives.
02.28.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- (February 28, 2006) As a result of a news investigation into the lack of certified training and security standards at Illinois Metra Stations, today, Congressman Bobby Rush (D-1st) said he will introduce legislation that would create a national uniformed standard that states would have to adhere to before awarding contracts to local firms. According to a special investigation by the local CBS affiliate, in several field tests bomb-sniffing dogs were unable to detect explosives that could be used in a terrorists assault on passengers. I am concerned about the false sense of security being perpetrated on our citizens, said Cong. Rush. Taxpayer dollars have been awarded to Metra in order to ensure safety and improve mass transit service to its customers. Passengers should be reasonably safe. However, if these security firms dont know what theyre doing we must replace them with companies that have been tested and certified with this sort of training. It is time to introduce legislation that will call for national training standards and require firms in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Illinois to have certification before being awarded security contracts, he said. Given the president have cut a deal that would give a United Arab Emirates-based company operational control over Port Newark and five other American ports, we must ensure domestically our residents are not at risk for exposure to suicide bombers or domestic terrorists. The CBS2 reporter revealed Metras bomb-sniffing dog teams were unable to detect suicide bombers or packages containing explosive materials. A hidden camera showed dogs at various Metra stations sitting stagnant while passengers pet them on the head as testers wearing incendiary devices went undetected. Cong. Rush has brought over $40 million in transportation improvements to the 1st Congressional District with over $21 million being allocated for rehabilitation of Metra stations on Chicagos South Side and suburbs. It is important that people in underserved communities have access to jobs outside the city, he explained. Not only should people be able to get to these jobs, but they should be safe.
02.23.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- (February 23, 2006) Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), said he will ask President Bush to extend the May 15 Medicare Part D deadline in order to ensure that all recipients understand the pros and cons of the new program. The legislator made his comments during a town hall meeting at Carter Temple CME Church on the citys South Side. This is yet another Bush administration bureaucratic mishap in blindsiding of the poor, elderly, sick, and vulnerable with the implementation of the incomprehensible Medicare Prescription Benefit Plan Part D, said Cong. Rush. Our office has been flooded with calls from concerned citizens wondering if they would lose their benefits. It is imperative that the deadline be extended until this mass confusion is cleared up. Rush said he would join with other elected officials and health care advocates to rally to extend the deadline, and has co-sponsored legislation (H.R. 3861 Medicare Informed Choice Act of 2005) to support these efforts. We have been going throughout the district informing as many people as possible, he said. Now is time for the voice of the citizens to be heard. This can be literally a matter of life and death for some people. Despite attempts by the federal government to inform the public about changes to the program, many of the six million Medicare/Medicaid recipients were unaware that Medicare Part D automatically kicked in on January 1, and that they had a five month threshold to make changes to their plans. Most of the dual eligible recipients (those receiving both Medicare and Medicaid), who received letters apparently didnt understand the message. Some panicked thinking that their Social Security benefits were being cut. Further, Medicare recipients who enroll in a plan by May 15 must stick with that plan until the end of the year. To date about 2 million people have voluntarily registered, leaving more than 30 million who could lose their benefits if they fail to meet the deadline.
02.22.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he will host a reception to formally announce his military academy nominees on Monday, February 27, 2006 at his South Suburban District Office, 3235 W. 147th Street, Midlothian, IL at 6:00 p.m. A congressional nomination and appointment to a military academy is one of our nations highest honors for young people between the ages of 17-23. Every year, Congressman Rush nominates outstanding students from the First Congressional District, and this years class includes: Keith OBrien, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Oak Forest High School, Oak Forest, IL (Air Force Academy) Alexis Turner, Steinmetz High School, Chicago, IL (West Point Military Academy) Adam Lietz, Eisenhower High School, Blue Island, IL (Naval Academy) It is a great honor to nominate these young people for military academy appointments as they have demonstrated the core qualities needed to excel in school and beyond, said Rush. I wish them well as they prepare to become our nations future leaders. For more information on Congressman Rush or how to apply for a military academy nomination, please visit: www.house.gov/rush.
02.21.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- CHICAGO (February 21, 2206) - Congressmen Bobby L. Rush, Congressman Danny K. Davis and other members of Chicagos Congressional delegation announced today that they were able to secure $396,000 from the recently passed transportation appropriation bill. The funding will help I-GO Car Sharing meet rapidly increased demand for this money saving, environmentally sound program. The undertaking to secure federal funding was a delegation wide effort. Sharon Feigon, Chief Executive Officer of the I-GO Car Sharing project reiterated this point by saying, Every member of the Chicagoland delegation played a role in securing the funding, and we could not have done this without their support. I-GO is Chicagos only car sharing program and its members enjoy the convenience and flexibility of having a car without the cost and hassles of owning a car. Members have 24-hour access to I-GO cars located in their communities in reserved parking spaces. They can reserve an I-GO car for 30 minutes or more by phone at 773-278-4446 or online at www.igocars.org. Members use I-GO cars to run errands like grocery shopping, doctor appointments, or job interviews and then return the car to its original parking space where the next member with the next reservation picks it up. According to I-GO member Rebecca Eng, a 33-year old working mother, it would cost me an arm and a leg if I had to pay for a car. When I do need a car its a big relief that I have I-GO as a backup instead of being trapped at home. Currently there are 51 I-GO cars in 20 Chicago communities that form a link from the south side to the far north side and the west side. The I-GO Car Sharing program currently has 1950 members and is growing at a rate of 100-125 new members every month. Sharon Feigon spoke of this saying that I-GO has nearly doubled in size since August 2004. The increase in growth and usage is linked to heightened awareness about the benefits of car sharing and the latest upswing in fuel costs. The Center for Neighborhood Technology, I-GOs parent organization, estimates that car sharing can save individuals several thousand dollars a year compared to the cost of car ownership, making it a very appealing option. The funding will be used to add cars and promote the program across the region. The announcement occurred at Jones College Prep High School. Jones College Prep is an I-GO car site and is home to a Honda Civic Hybrid. The I-GO program will reach 100 cars later this year. The longer term goal of the program is to grow to 500 cars, which will allow it to service the entire Chicagoland region. For more information about Congressman Rush, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
02.17.2006	WASHINGTON (February 17, 2006) Washington DC - Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) along with 30 other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) released a letter to Senators Ted Stevens and Daniel Inouye, Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Commerce Committee, respectively, urging them to oppose an "a la carte" pricing system for cable and direct broadcast satellite services. I am opposed to an a la carte system as it has the unintended consequences of reducing diversity programming and passing on increased costs to the consumer. said Rush. The letter, which was also delivered to Congressmen Joe Barton and John Dingell, Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, respectively, as well as to members of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), reaffirms the CBC's strong opposition to an a la carte regime. A copy of the letter is pasted below. Dear Chairman Stevens and Ranking Member Inouye: In the recent forums that you have conducted on indecency legislation, the issue of offering "a la carte" program services on cable and direct broadcast satellite services has once again been brought into the debate. As we made clear last Congress, we oppose an "a la carte system" and believe it is likely to have the effect of reducing diversity of programming while at the same time increasing costs to the consumer. In the last several years new cable networks have been created such as TV One, a cable network for African Americans and ESPN Deportes, a Spanish language sports network. In an "a la carte" world, it would have been next to impossible for these channels to have been launched. More troubling, if an "a la carte" system were to become reality, these channels, and others like them that offer diversity in programming, might not survive. These channels cannot exist with only the subscription fees they charge to cable companies. Revenue from a national advertising base is essential. In an "a la carte" world, the potential advertising base for niche channels would be severely eroded. This would lead to less advertising dollars for the programmer, an increase in licensing fees and an increase in consumer costs. This ultimately leads to fewer choices for consumers. This has been confirmed by a lengthy analysis conducted by the non-partisan General Accounting Office (GAO). We urge you in considering any indecency legislation not to support any "a la carte" regime. The great strides made in diversification of programming would be severely threatened and the cost to consumers would surely rise. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ­­­­­­­­­­­____________________________ ____________________________ Bobby L. Rush Melvin L. Watt Member of Congress Member of Congress
02.15.2006	WASHINGTON---- (February 14, 2006) Congressman Bobby L. Rush will take time on the House Floor after legislative business on February 15, 2006 during special order to officially recognize students and teachers at Morgan Park High School for a record academic achievement. Out of more than 15,000 high schools in 31 countries worldwide, Morgan Park H.S. had the largest number of African American students to pass their Advanced Placement exams in two courses European History and English language/composition than any other high school in the nation offering AP courses last year. Additionally, Congressman Rush will recognize other students at the school that achieved similar test scores. The students and teachers at Morgan Park have proven that the right environment of support mixed with a high level of self-determination are a mighty combination for excellence in education, said Rush. We need to use the students achievement as a model for success as we continue to find ways to help children excel in school. On Thursday, February 16, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. (CST), Congressman Rush is expected to participate in Morgan Parks Advanced Placement showcase, to further highlight and promote the benefits of Advanced Placement courses to student and parents. The event will be held at Morgan Park H.S. , which is located at 1744 W. Pryor Avenue, Chicago, IL in Blackwelder Hall (auditorium). Note: Congressman Rush is expected to speak 10th during special order. Coverage will be shown on C-Span (check local tv listings) or via the internet at www.cspan.org. Full text of Congressman Rushs remarks can be found on www.house.gov/rush.
02.08.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- (January 21, 2006) - To reverse a disturbing trend of high absenteeism at Harper High School, Congressman Bobby L. Rush has responded with a $72,000 in federal funds to establish a truancy program. The funds will be used to hire two truancy officers, who will not only follow up on student absenteeism, but will serve as a social services arm to the family. This truancy program will dig deeper and uncover some root causes that can hopefully explain why our children are not attending school, said Rush. If theres a determination that tutorial services or parenting classes might be beneficial, school officials will work with the family to provide the necessary support. Congressman Rushs involvement with Harper High School is part of a concentrated effort by community leaders to shed light on the educational disparities of schools in low-income area, with an overall goal of bringing parity to all schools in the city and state when it comes to funding and support.
02.06.2006	WASHINGTON ---(February 6, 2006) I want to applaud the national and community organizers on yet another successful National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. Today is an important time for the African American community as it affords us the opportunity to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS, which continues to devastate our community at an alarming rate. Of AIDS cases diagnosed since the epidemic began through 2004, African Americans account for 40 percent but are only 12.2 percent of the U.S. population. African American women accounted for 67 percent of AIDS diagnoses among women during the same time frame. This number can only be reduced through a concentrated effort toward building awareness, widespread communication and taking action to prevent future cases of HIV/AIDS. We should also use National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day to honor and learn from our brothers and sisters who have been impacted by this disease. It is only through the human experience that our compassion deepens and our knowledge base broadens on critical issues such as HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS is not an issue that can be conveniently filed away as a taboo subject if we are to truly reduce the rate of infection and eradicate this disease. Its time for us to speak out and stop the spread of HIV/AIDS, and that work begins today.
01.31.2006	Chicago, IL. ----I am deeply saddened by the death of Coretta Scott King, widow of the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King. A motivating force, Mrs. King shared in the pain and promise of her husbands vision for racial harmony and social change. After Dr. Kings tragic death, Mrs. King reminded us all that even during our darkest hour, brighter days are within reach. She exhibited quiet strength and unwavering resolve in preserving her husbands legacy in American history while shouldering the demands of raising her family alone. Through her exemplary work, she will continue to inspire future generations to champion Dr. Kings dream of racial peace and social equality until it becomes a reality.
01.17.2006	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush will host two educational seminars on the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Program Part D on the following dates and locations: South Suburban: Thursday, January 26, 2006 from 8:45 a.m. 11:30 a.m. at the Raday Lodge, 3220 W. 145th, Midlothian, IL. City: Thursday, February 23, 2006 from 10:00 a.m. 12:30 p.m. at Carter Temple Church, 7841 S. Wabash Avenue, Chicago, IL At the seminars, Medicare experts will be on hand to break down the complex details of Part D, and provide Medicare-eligible individuals, family members and caregivers with the necessary information to ensure they are enrolled in the best plan that addresses their health needs. The new Medicare drug benefit program is the most significant expansion since its inception in 1965. Due to limited seating, pre-registration is required. Onsite enrollment will be available. Participants should bring their Medicare card. Continental breakfast will be provided. To RSVP for the South Suburban event, please call (708) 385-9550 or send an email to: younus.suleman@mail.house.gov. For the City event, please call (773) 224-6500 or send an email to judy.tucker@mail.house.gov. For more information, please visit Congressman Rushs website: www.house.gov/rush. The seminars are being held in cooperation with UnitedHealth Group, Congressional Black Caucus Health Braintrust, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Social Security Administration, Midlothian Mayor Thomas J. Murawski, Illinois First Congressional District Health Task Force, Beloved Community Family Wellness Center and the Illinois First Congressional District Health Task Force. U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush is currently in his seventh term in the U.S. Congress and is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. He serves on three subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Health, the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet and the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection.
12.13.2005	
12.02.2005	Chicago, IL. (November 28, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush and SCORE Counselors to Americas Small Business announced today that they will wrap up their year-long partnership of providing business training workshops with a graduation ceremony and networking reception for more than 80 participants, who are seeking to either grow or establish their businesses in the First Congressional District. The event will take place on Monday, December 12, 2005 from 5:30 p.m. until 8:00 p.m. at the University of Illinois Extension, Cook Chicago South Unit (Illinois Room), 8751 S. Greenwood, Chicago. The graduation and business networking reception will include graduates, various chambers of commerce, representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency, Office of Illinois State Treasurer, Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, small business development centers, procurement technical assistance centers, community and business organizations. The graduation ceremony is a culmination of business training workshops, which were held in March through October of this year, at Congressman Rushs district and suburban offices. The workshops provided attendees with training and counseling on financing options, business strategy, marketing tactics, product development, cash flow and management. In this first of its kind partnership, Rush and SCORE eased the travel burden for constituents by providing training in their own neighborhood. This event is free but requires pre-registration. For more information, please call (708) 385-9550 or email younus.suleman@mail.house.gov.
11.10.2005	Washington D.C. ---- (November 10, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush issued the following statement regarding the likelihood of a new trial for Andrea Yates: To retry Andrea Yates for the deaths of her children would be a significant step back for sufferers of postpartum depression, and only further perpetuates the stigma of mental illness in our society. Diagnosed with severe postpartum depression, Mrs. Yates would best benefit from medical treatment rather than jail time. While her case has garnered significant media attention, there are cases all over the country where mothers have been convicted without regard for mental health issues such as postpartum depression and psychosis that may have precipitated the unfortunate harm or death to themselves or their children. In the coming weeks, I hope the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Texas court system recognizes the greater need for restructure in rulings regarding cases of severe mental illness such as postpartum depression. In May, Congressman Rush reintroduced his bill H.R. 1940 - Melanie Blocker-Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act, which provides for research on and services for individuals with postpartum depression and psychosis. For more information about this bill, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
11.09.2005	Washington D.C. ---- With major oil companies living in the lap of huge profits, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) announced today the introduction of his bill H.R. 4248, which amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and imposes a temporary windfall profit tax on crude oil with proceeds going to carry out the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981. Gas prices and oil company profits are at an all-time high, but the needs for our most vulnerable population continues to be a low priority in this country, said Rush. By imposing a windfall profit tax on oil companies, the proceeds will enable families to offset anticipated record home heating costs this winter. A strong supporter of the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP), Congressman Rush was able to increase the authorization of funds by 50% to $5.1 billion earlier this year through passage of his amendment as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Appropriators later decided to reduce and fund LIHEAP with $2 billion. The Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Rush is a member, then voted for direct spending of an additional $1 billion for a total of $3 billion. Rush further stated that, with a windfall profit tax, we now have a viable plan that allocates funding for LIHEAP rather than have it continue to hang in budget cut limbo. Oil companies should not be allowed to reap unconscionable profit gains at the expense of our nation not being able to protect consumers and provide for our underserved populations. For more information about this bill, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
10.25.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (October 24, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush (1-IL) announced today that he will host his District Wide Assembly on Saturday, October 29, 2005 from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at Percy Julian High School, 10330 South Elizabeth Street, Chicago, IL. The District Wide Assembly is an opportunity for constituents to come out come out and help further the First Congressional Districts agenda for economic development, education, healthcare, housing and technology. To RSVP, please call (773) 224-6500 and ask for Thyatiria Towns. Or download your registration form online by visiting Rushs web site at www.house.gov/rush, and click on Events Calendar.
10.25.2005	Chicago, IL. ----(October 24, 2005) - It is with great sadness to learn of the passing of Rosa Parks. Not only did she play a role in igniting the Civil Rights Movement, she helped define it. By refusing to move from the Whites-only section of a bus in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Montgomery, Alabama, her courageous act of defiance motivated thousands around the country to stand up and speak out against racial injustice. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> A heroine that history could not ignore, Rosa Parks legacy is a reminder to us all that in order to prosper, we must be willing to persevere.
10.04.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (October 3, 2005) Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he, Congressman Danny K. Davis and Congressman Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. will hold a joint press conference in support of his congressional resolution, which calls for condemnation of disparaging comments made last week by former Secretary of Education William Bennett, who stated during his radio show that if every black baby was aborted in this country, the crime rate would go down. The press conference will take place on Monday, October 3, 2005 at 11:30 a.m. at Rushs District office, 700 E. 79th Street, Chicago. Rush introduced House Resolution (473) immediately upon hearing the news, which calls upon the U.S. House of Representatives to condemn the racist remarks of William Bennett. The resolution has received bipartisan support including Republican Michael Burgess of Texas. Bennetts unapologetic posture following public outrage has only fueled the desire by Rush and his congressional colleagues to fight for passage of H. Res 473, which will ensure history reflects the denouncement of Bennetts racist remarks. William Bennetts cavalier attitude is disgraceful, and I refuse to let his biased and racist remarks become the catalyst for future misuse of public airwaves. Bennett needs to know and the people of this country want to know that there are repercussions for malicious behavior. Congressman Rush serves on the Subcommittee of Telecommunications of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. For more information, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
10.03.2005	WASHINGTON, (October 3, 2005) - President Bushs decision to nominate White House Counsel Harriet Miers as the next Supreme Court justice is peculiar, considering her lack of judicial history. Our country and our legislative system are in a precarious situation right now, leaving the American people no other choice than to question whether Ms. Mierss nomination is rooted in favoritism or her ability to defend our freedoms for decades to come. An appointment on the Supreme Court requires a high level of transparency that will be critical in coming days to determine whether or not Ms. Miers is suitable to succeed Justice Sandra Day OConnor. Ms. Miers should not be granted appointment based on optimistic expectations and a stamp of approval by the Bush Administration. Her background and views on critical issues must be scrutinized, and serve as the determining factor for a lifetime vacancy on the Supreme Court.
10.03.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- {(October 3, 2005) - In anticipation of rising heating bills this winter, Congressman Bobby L. Rush in conjunction with Peoples Energy, Commonwealth Edison, Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services and CEDA, announced that he will be hosting a One Stop Utility Assistance Day on Saturday, October 8, 2005 at Englewood High School (gymnasium), 6201 S. Stewart from 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. During One Stop Utility Assistance Day, individuals can get a jumpstart on applying for grants to help pay and reconnect their gas and light bills. Attendees will be able to sign up for Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds before it opens to the general public on November 1. The devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina has taught us a lesson in preparedness, said Rush. Frigid temperatures are a constant force every winter in Illinois, so I strongly urge residents to take advantage of available funds early on to ensure their eligibility for funding to offset heating and lighting costs. Congressman Rush, who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was able to increase LIHEAP funds by 50% to $5.1 billion through passage of his amendment as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. For the Weatherization Assistance Program, which retro-fits and weatherizes loc-income household to make them more energy efficient, Rushs amendment authorized an additional $175 million for fiscal year 2006; an additional $200 million for fiscal year 2007 and an additional $200 million for 2008. The program also raises eligibility from 124% to 150% of the poverty level. The following are eligible: seniors 60 and older, disabled individuals, people who have had their services disconnected and individuals with medical conditions certified by a physician outlining need for utility services. Attendees should bring the following: Proof of household income for the past 30 days Original Social Security Card for all members in the household Original current electric and gas bill Current lease agreement if renting Proof of homeownership to receive an emergency furnace. If utilities are included in your rent payments, it must be stated in the lease agreement to receive cash payment. For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman Bobby L. Rush, 773-224-6500; CEDA Hotline, (312) 456-4100; or Peoples Energy, (866) 556-6001.
09.29.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- I am outraged by comments made by former Secretary of Education Bill Bennett, who on his radio show, stated that if every black baby was aborted in this country, the crime rate would go down. Not only is his bigotry a disgrace, I am appalled that he is using his radio platform to malign African Americans, which an impressionable listener could mistake for truth. Mr. Bennett has consistently confessed an unbelievable ignorance since leaving his position as head of our nations education department. Its a shame that our one-time chief educator has willingly left himself behind on the critical subject of building race relations in this country. In the interest of the American people, I have introduced House Resolution 473, which calls upon the U.S. House of Representatives to condemn the racist remarks of William Bennett. Note: Attached you will a copy of Congressman Rushs House Resolution (473) - Condemning the Racist Remarks of William Bennett for your review.
09.27.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- WASHINGTON (September 28, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) announced today the establishment of a National Commission on Digestive Diseases, under the direction of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which will work to study the causes of and improve the health of more than 70 million Americans who are diagnosed with digestive diseases and disorders each year. The Commission is the result of legislation sponsored by Congressman Rush and Congressman Roy Blunt, which was enacted as part of the Omnibus Appropriations bill signed into law by President Bush last October. Congressman Rush, who serves on the Subcommittee on Health of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, expressed great optimism with advancements that the National Commission can make in understanding, treating and preventing digestive diseases. With such a high incidence of digestive diseases in this country, the National Commission on Digestive Diseases will help facilitate research that can later provide medical professionals and individuals with action plans for healthier lifestyles, said Rush. I am pleased to play a role in advancing our countrys understanding of digestive diseases, while identifying effective treatments and preventive measures. At Congressman Rushs request, in addition to formal Commission deliberations, there will be working groups, one of which will address the impact of digestive diseases on minority communities. The family of digestive diseases includes, but not limited to, heartburn, peptic ulcers, hepatitis, lactose intolerance, irritable bowel syndrome, ulcerative colitis, Crohns disease and colorectal cancer. After studying the incidence, duration and mortality rates of digestive diseases, as well as the economic impact, the Commission would then be charged with evaluating the resources necessary to expedite the discovery of treatments and cures for patients with digestive disorders while developing a 10-year long-range plan for effectively addressing these needs. The Commission will be composed of 16 permanent members, appointed for the life of the Commission by the director of NIH and 18 nonvoting ex officio members from NIH and other federal government agencies involved in research of digestive diseases. -more- Congressman Rush Paves the Way for Digestive Studies/page 2 The Commission members will examine the incidences and impact of digestive diseases on the general and specific population, evaluating the public and private facilities and resources available for the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of digestive disease, and identifying programmatic factors to improve digestive disease management and treatment. Dr. David Rubin, Assistant Professor of Medicine at the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />University of Chicago and spokesperson for the American Gastroenterological Association believes Rushs legislation will benefit patients with digestive diseases of all types. Having an expert commission identify priorities for our national research efforts is a major milestone at both the scientific and population level, said Rubin. Congressman Rushs legislation is a model for other disease types, and will impact our work in digestive disorders well into the next generation. The National Commission on Digestive Diseases will update the findings of the original commission, which was convened in 1976. Since the original report in 1979, the burden of digestive diseases in the U.S. remains substantial. For more information about the Commission or other legislation by Congressman Bobby L. Rush, please visit www.house.gov/rush.
09.21.2005	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 21, 2005) Congressman Bobby L. Rush today introduced today an immigration bill that would grant 35 Latino individuals permanent resident status, so they can be reunited with their families in Chicago. Congressman Rush was driven to sponsor this bill with co-sponsors, Congressman Luis Gutierrez and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky out of concern for families that have been devastated under current immigration laws.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> A strong family is a health family, and I cannot sit back and have them torn apart by our countrys immigration laws, said Rush. While my colleagues and I work on the law itself, I hope this immigration bill brings relief and adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
09.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 20, 2005) At Congressman Bobby L. Rushs urging to address the public health crisis throughout the Gulf Coast, the Subcommittee on Health of the Energy and Commerce Committee will address this issue in the hearing, Accessing Public Health and the Delivery of Care in the Wake of Katrina. During the September 7 hearing, Recovering from Katrina, which focused primarily on price gouging at the gas pumps, Congressman Rush was vocal about his concerns with the debilitating health conditions impacting Hurricane Katrina evacuees and the environment. In advance of the story, Congressman Rush will be available for interviews. WHEN: Thursday, September 22, 2005 at 9:10 a.m. (EST) WHERE: 2123 Rayburn House Office building, Washington, D.C.
09.07.2005	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON (September 3, 2005) - I extend my condolences to the family of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist. His death leaves behind 33 years on the Supreme count, and now provides a second vacancy on the countrys highest court. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> "This rare opportunity for President Bush comes at a time when the Senate is preparing for hearings on his nomination of John G. Roberts, Jr. to replace Sandra Day OConnor as an associate justice, as well as the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. History continues to teach us the perils of a single ideology, and I hope President Bush recognizes that its not his right, but his duty to ensure that his next appointee has a record of support, understanding and sensitivity for issues that impact mainstream America when it comes to race, class and gender. With the Supreme Court serving as the last resort for African Americans and other underrepresented populations, it is critical that the next Supreme Court justice upholds and respects the law, rather than comply with a set political or personal agenda. The decision of rights and freedoms of every American ends at the Supreme Court, so along with the rest of the world, I pray that President Bush has the desire for a new beginning when selecting his nominee.
09.04.2005	Chicago, IL. ----Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he will help lead efforts to bring up to 10,000 Hurricane Katrina victims to Illinois. In emergency meetings and phone calls with a wide network of people and providers, Congressman Bobby L. Rush worked to identify areas of need such as housing, medical care, food, clothing and any emergency services displaced families require during what is officially our countrys worst national disaster. <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Chicago was the destination for many migrating families in the South during the 50s and 60s seeking opportunity, said Rush. In 2005, families have been left to fend for themselves in the wake of the Hurricane Katrina, and its our duty in Chicago and the State of Illinois open our doors once again to people seeking help, opportunity and compassion. In a townhall meeting at Chicagos Quinn Chapel, Congressman Bobby L. Rush was joined by Congressman Danny Davis, Governor Rod Blagojevich, State Senator Emil Jones, Louanner Peters (governors office) and a host of local elected officials, community leaders, nonprofit organizations, social service providers, ministers, area business and concerned citizens. As part of the states centralized efforts to assist displaced persons who come to Illinois, a toll-free number has been set up (800-843-6154). The number will stay in service as long as need.
09.02.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- September 2, 2005 The Honorable George W. BushPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, DC 20502 Dear Mr. President: For most of my life, I have fought for justice and equal rights in this country. What I have seen over the past week in the wake of the destruction of Hurricane Katrina qualifies as one of the great injustices of my lifetime and one of the biggest travesties in American history. I do not say this lightly. Mr. President, I along with millions of other Americans have witnessed on television unspeakable, widespread suffering in Mississippi and (especially) Louisiana that has led to the wholesale denigration and destruction of thousands upon thousands of human lives. I and millions of other Americans have seen 80% of the city of New Orleans submerged in water. We have seen people stranded on their rooftops for days without any rescue, who are dying of starvation, dehydration and exhaustion. We have seen thousands of people literally baking in the hot sun on the highways that are above water. We have seen dead bodies floating in water and lying in the street, covered with blankets and rotting in the heat. We have seen mothers desperately seeking nourishment for their children - for their infants! - and we have seen the elderly weakly sitting in a daze, simply waiting to die. Mr. President, we have seen the Superdome and other refugee centers - an insulting term - descend into complete anarchy, where people lack basic necessities and are submerged in the stench of filth and raw sewage. Worse they are terrorized by criminals who brazenly prey on them with violence, including rape and murder. I have heard you and others in your Administration say that we did everything we can and are doing everything we can to save the lives of these innocent souls. I do not believe that this is true. Nothing anyone says in a press conference in front of cameras will convince me that the richest, most powerful nation in the world is incapable of mobilizing its massive, unprecedented resources to simply deliver food and water to people dying in the streets. It is impossible for me to believe that we can't deploy sufficient troops to the Superdome and other so-called safe havens to protect people and provide them with basic necessities. Mr. President, the response to this catastrophe has been completely incompetent at the very best, and unconscionably indifferent at the very worst. There is no good reason why a massive military or national guard effort did not take place sooner to alleviate the death and suffering of the citizens of New Orleans. No one can convince me that we could not have moved a convoy of personnel carriers into the city to evacuate people from the Superdome and the other relief centers. There is no good reason why an armada of helicopters couldn't give food and water to large congregations of people dying in the streets. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of the people suffering and dying in New Orleans are poor and African American. These are citizens that simply did not have the logistical or financial wherewithal to evacuate New Orleans along with the rest of her citizens. It is my belief that if Hurricane Katrina had left wealthy white citizens in dehumanizing squalor surrounded by flood waters, the federal government would have mobilized swiftly and decisively to rescue and evacuate those people. On top of all of the suffering and death taking place, I am outraged by this blatant display of discrimination. I hope you will hold everyone in your Administration accountable for the lack of response to this human catastrophe. While nothing will be able to make-up for the inhumanity suffered by the citizens of New Orleans, we must go forward from here and do everything in our power to alleviate their pain. And we must also determine exactly what went wrong and hold accountable those people who had the responsibility to decisively act in a time of crisis. Sincerely, Bobby L. Rush Member of Congress
09.02.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he will join the City of Markham Mayor David Webb Jr. and a network of South Suburban churches, municipalities and businesses, to provide emergency assistance to individuals impacted by Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Donations of water, non-perishables and toiletries will be accepted on the following dates and locations: <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Victory Christian Assembly Church 2901 West 159th Street Markham, IL 60428 September 2 8:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m September 3, 2005 8:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m. Lights of Zion Ministries 11636 South Halsted Chicago, IL 60628 September 2, 8:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m September 3, 8:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
08.31.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- I extend my deepest sympathies and prayers to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. While this tragedy has had a significant impact on this nation, it has not rocked the foundation of hope, healing and efforts for a speedy recovery.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> We should use natural occurrences such as Hurricane Katrina as an opportunity to reach out and help our fellow Americans and distant neighbors for no other reason than to show that we care.
08.08.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (August 8, 2005) - Words cannot express the deep sorrow I feel over the loss of John H. Johnson, who was more than just a publishing giant, he was a teacher. Throughout his career, he educated our nation on the life experiences and accomplishments of African Americans in his magazines, Ebony and Jet. For over 60 years, he told our stories of triumph and success that other media outlets often chose to ignore. By providing a voice for African Americans to tell their story, he was able to provide his readers with words, pictures and an archive of our history. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> I can still vividly remember the pictures Jet magazine published of Emmett Tills body in 1955. Back then as a young boy, I was horrified by the images as my mother shared the injustice surrounding his death. In 2005, I realize the real horror would have been if Mr. Johnson had bowed down to racial pressure, and not published the photos. Today, the African-American community lost one of the most dedicated and inspirational publishing pioneers of our time. The legacy of Mr. Johnsons accomplishments will continue to live on as African American journalists and publishers continue to cover, uncover and discover the successes that exist in our culture.
07.27.2005	CHICAGO (July 27, 2005) Congressman Bobby L. Rush along with DePaul University College of Law Professor Ray Waters and his team of law students from several universities, will let Chicago families know the status of their claims of stolen land during the Jim Crow Era of the South as part of their Reclamation of Southern Assets (ROSA) project on Thursday, July 28, 2005 at Rep. Rushs Chicago District Office, located at 700 E. 79th Street, Chicago, at 1:30 pm. Nearly a year ago, Rush spearheaded the ROSA project with Professor Waters by hosting a conference attended by African-American Chicago relatives of former land and business owners in mid-southern states. Subsequent conferences have helped to identify families whose claims of lost property due to widespread injustice and intimidation practiced during the Jim Crow era of the South had fallen flat. Rep. Rush seeks to redistribute and reconcile these disputed land rights to ancestors and descendants of landowners who unlawfully lost their property. The African American community has been plagued by the lack of a land-based economy throughout history, said Rush. This stems from not only the failure of the government to keep its promise of 40 acres and a mule, but also the treacherous theft of African-American-owned land during the Jim Crow era of Southern segregation and aristocracy. The ROSA project will begin to rectify these crimes of the past and continue our pursuit to increase ownership and economic stability within the African-American community. Congressman Rush hopes the ROSA project finding will draw exposure as well as garner legislative proposals and support from state and federal policymakers. For more information, please visit www.house.gov/rush or call (773) 224-6500.
07.06.2005	WASHINGTON (July 6, 2005) - In a report prepared by the United States House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform Minority Staff, Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today the impact of President Bushs Social Security proposal on working families in Illinois 1st Congressional District. The report finds that the majority of wage earners in the district will face steep benefit cuts under the Presidents plan. Congressman Rush requested the study after hearing constituent concerns during a townhall meeting on proposed changes to Social Security earlier this year. The idea of privatizing Social Security continues to generate a great deal of debate in this nation, so I wanted an in-depth study on the impact that it would have in my district, said Rush. With figures that indicate that more than 68% of constituents in the 1st Congressional District would have benefits cut, this disturbing projection not only validates our worst fears, it solidifies my objection to privatization. Specifically, the report finds: The Presidents plan would cut benefits for over 160,000 wage earners in Rep. Rushs District. There are over 245,000 wage earners in the district who are currently contributing to Social Security. The Presidents plan would cut benefits for 68% - or more than 166,000 of these employees. The Presidents plan would result in significant benefit cuts for individual wage earners in Rep. Rushs district. For wage earners between the ages of 35 and 55, the average benefit cut would be $1,8750 per year. For younger wage earners, the average benefit cut would be $4,245 per year. Over 39,000 wage earners in the district would face benefit cuts of over 20%. The Presidents plan would cut total benefits by over $12 billion for current wage earners in Rep. Rushs district. Over their lifetimes, wage earners in the district who are currently contributing to Social Security would lose $12.8 billion in benefits under the Presidents plan. More than 78% of this cut will come from middle-class workers who earn between $30,000 and $90,000 annually. -more- Congressman Rush releases report that shows negative impact of privatization in his 1st CD/page 2 The Presidents plan could also cut benefits for widows and surviving children in Rep. Rushs District. Social Security benefits for surviving spouses and children are tied to the benefits earned by the deceased wage earner. Because the President has yet to explain how the benefits cuts he is proposing for wage earners will affect surviving spouses and children, no precise estimate of the impact on his proposal of surviving spouses and children is possible. But the number of survivors likely to be affected is large. ###
07.01.2005	Washington D.C. ---- (July 1, 2005) - It is with great admiration that I thank Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day OConnor for her many years of service and willingness to weigh in on key issues without prejudice. This country has benefited greatly by her decision to let what is right, guide her decisions rather than what is popular or partisan. As the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court, her legacy has earned its place in history. I wish her well in retirement, and may her actions serve as an example for her peers and future lawmakers.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> I sincerely hope that President Bush and my congressional colleagues will select a replacement with the same fortitude and vision for equality and justice.
06.30.2005	Chicago, IL. ----(June 30, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that in conjunction with the Donors Forum of Chicago, he will host Understanding the Grantseeking Process, an educational seminar for nonprofit organizations and individuals on Thursday, July 7, 2005 from 8:30 a.m. 12:00 p.m. at the Raday Lounge, 3220 W. 145th Street, Midlothian, IL. Continental breakfast will be provided. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Participants at this educational seminar will hear best practices of successful grant writers, and fundraising experts will show to identify potential funding sources. A panel of grantmakers from the public, corporate and foundation funding sectors will discuss their agency giving programs, new initiatives and share insights into how their agency find and fund successful programs. This event is made possible in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and Midlothian Mayor Thomas J. Murawski. For more information, please visit www.house.gov/rush or call (708) 385-9550.
06.22.2005	WASHINGTON (June 21, 2005) - The guilty manslaughter conviction of Edgar Ray Killen today can only be described as a monumental victory for the state of Mississippi, our justice system and the American public. The jurors guilty verdict sends a strong message throughout this nation that there is no place for murder and misdeeds. Although it took 41 years, justice has prevailed in this case and will undoubtedly serve as a catalyst for the endless pursuit of the truth in other outstanding murder cases such as Emmett Till. Whether it takes a year or 50, no criminal should ever rest comfortably with the notion that he/she beat the system. I hope the guilty verdict of Mr. Killen brings a sense of closure and peace for the families of James Chaney, Michael Schwerner and Andrew Goodman. Mr. Killens conviction should put all living co-conspirators involved in Emmett Tills murder case on notice: You cant hide and families will not heal until you are brought to justice. ###
06.01.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- I visited Burr Oak Cemetery today in support of the family as well as the investigation. Due to the fact that this is a criminal investigation, I was told that no one outside of immediate family and those involved directly with the exhumation would be allowed into the cemetery. I was advised to call my contacts at the Department of Justice for more information. I followed up with a phone call and spoke to Assistant Attorney General for DOJs Civil Rights Division, Alex Acosta, who shared what he could at this time regarding the investigation. In the coming days, Im expecting to receive more information as the investigation continues and the autopsy is completed. Until then, I remain optimistic that this exhumation process is just one step of many that will ultimately lead to closure and convictions of any surviving co-conspirators involved in Emmett Tills death. Note: Rep. Rush introduced the first congressional resolution in February 2004, which called on the Department of Justice (DOJ) to reopen Emmett Till's murder case. Subsequently, a bipartisan, bicameral resolution requesting that the DOJ and the state of Mississippi act more quickly to hold those accountable was introduced in November 2004. The resolution directs the DOJ to pursue this investigation in a timely manner due to the amount of time that has passed since the crime was committed and the age of the witnesses. A copy of the resolution can be found on www.house.gov/rush or by visiting https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/D?c108:3:./temp/~c108PaFCgg:: Mamie Till Mobley was a friend and constituent of Congressman Rush. Burr Oak Cemetery is located in his First Congressional District.
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON, (May 25, 2005) - Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today his commitment to spurring entrepreneurship with the introduction of two new bills in the U.S. House of Representatives that would facilitate small businesses in obtaining larger loan amounts with lower interest rates, while also providing training and technical assistance. Concerned with the barriers that small businesses and startups face when attempting to access midsize loans between $35,000-200,000, H.R. 2639 Small Business Intermediary Lending Pilot Program Act of 2005 would establish a pilot program to provide low interest loans to nonprofit, community-based lending intermediaries. Lenders would offer technical assistance to reduce the transaction costs and risk exposure of banks. Separately, H.R. 2640 SBA Microenterprise Improvement Act would revise the eligibility for microloan intermediaries, increase the maximum microloan small amount from $7500 to $10,000, increase technical assistance contracting to 30%, adjust the term limit for loans, and create reporting requirements that will highlight the successes of public-private partnerships. Microloan programs create jobs that stay in the community, which is very important these days as we hear of increased off-shore movements by large corporations to remain competitive worldwide, Rush said. These programs also foster entrepreneurship, opportunities for growth and economic independence. Rep. Rush is currently seeking support from his congressional colleagues and his constituents. Both bills are presently at the committee level.
05.13.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (May 13, 2005) Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he and the Illinois First Congressional District Council on Asian Affairs will host a Tourism Fair as part of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, to encourage tourism to many parts of Southeast Asia and East Africa, which were impacted by Decembers tsunami on Monday, May 16, 2005 at the James R. Thompson Center, 100 W. Randolph, Chicago, from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. In addition to a recognition ceremony for local community organizations and individuals, who helped contribute to tsunami relief efforts, this all-day event will include cultural performances and representatives from Asian tourism offices. On hand will also be Jane V. Kostner, deputy director of Illinois Bureau of Tourism and Warren Tai, senior executive vice president of International Bank of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Chicago. The Tourism Fair was designed to help areas impacted by the tsunami and to honor the unsung heroes who played a major role in coordinating relief efforts, said Rush. It is also an opportunity to learn and celebrate the Asian Pacific culture. According to current U.S. Census Bureaus number, the First Congressional District of Illinois has an Asian population of 14,000. Participating offices of Consul Generals include: China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Pakistan, Philippine and Thailand. The Illinois First Congressional District Advisory Council on Asian Affairs is comprised of Asian and non-Asian community based organizations representing Chinese, Cambodian, Filipino, Japanese, Indian, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Pakistani, Thailand, Taiwan and Vietnamese communities. ###
05.11.2005	WASHINGTON (May 11, 2005) - Congressman Bobby Rush announced today on the House floor his opposition to the passage of H.R. 1279, The Gang Deterrence and Community Prosecution Act of 2003, which institutes mandatory minimum sentencing as a solution to deter gang activities and facilitates the federal prosecution of juveniles. The bill, which passed by a 279-144 vote, expands the definition of a criminal street gang also mandates harsher punishments for crimes that already have long sentences. The definition of crime is broadened to include both violent and non-violent crimes such as resisting arrest and drug trafficking. "Living in Chicago, I am well aware of how gang violence devastates communities," said Rush. "However, research has shown that increasing prison terms does not reduce youth violence. By applying one-size-fit all penalties without individual distinction, it only further permeates injustice in our law enforcement system." Rush points to studies, which indicate that the best way to prevent juvenile crime, and by extension adult crime, is through prevention and early intervention programs geared toward at-risk youth. The new penalties, with mandatory minimum sentences and death penalties, for committing a gang crimes includes 10 years for the intent to commit a crime of violence; 30 years to life for kidnapping, aggravated sexual abuse or maiming; 20 years for assault resulting in serious bodily injury; and 10 years to life in any other case. To read Congressman Rushs statement, click here. To read the H.R. 1279, bill, click here: <https://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_cong_bills&docid=f:h1279rh.txt.pdf>) ###
05.10.2005	WASHINGTON D.C. (May 10, 2005)As part of its first annual National PPD Screening Day on May 11th, Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill) announced today his support of the Family Mental Health Foundations postpartum depression efforts, which urges all pregnant women and new mothers to TAKE THE TEST NOW a campaign which direct women to go online (www.ppdhope.com) and take a simple, anonymous test for postpartum depression (PPD). The test will quickly tell the women whether they may be among the hundreds of thousands of untreated PPD sufferers and how they can get more information and help.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Women without access to the Internet will be urged to call the foundations toll-free hotline1-877-PPD-HOPE (773-4673). Co-chairs for the event will be Mrs. Carolyn Rush and Mrs. Loretta Durbin, spouses of Congressman Rush and Senator Richard Durbin (D-Ill), who are the House and Senate lead sponsors of the Melanie Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act, a bill that would provide research on, and services for individuals with, postpartum depression and psychosis. I am pleased with the Family Mental Healths aggressive outreach approach to helping mothers and families recognize the signs of postpartum depression, said Rush. Incorporating mental health screenings during and after pregnancy is key to better understanding and addressing signs of postpartum depression before its too late. -more- Rush Lends Support for National Postpartum Depression Day/page 2 During National PPD Screening Day, the foundation hopes to raise awareness about PPD. It will also appeal to doctors, nurses and other health-care professionals to begin routine depression screening of pregnant women and new mothers so that all sufferers receive prompt and effective treatment. Postpartum depression is the most common serious complication of pregnancy, says Dr. Ralph Wittenberg, president of the Washington, D.C.-based foundation and recognized PPD expert. At least 400,000 women in the U.S. are devastated by the illness every year. Yet, it goes mostly undiagnosed and untreated and, if left untreated, the consequences can be severe for the mothers and their babies. Congressman Rushs support of National PPD Screening Day is just the latest step of many to come in his attempt to ensure his bill is passed in the current session on behalf of women and families in this nation. As daily reports of postpartum depression sufferers continue to rise, Rush is on a crusade to help save families and remove the stigma of mental illness. First introduced in 2001, Rep. Rush held a press conference May 5 in Washington, D.C. in support of reintroduction of his bill with First Lady Mary Jo Codey, wife of New Jersey Acting Governor, Richard Codey, postpartum depression survivors and other health professionals. The foundations principal goal is to make PPD screening a standard of care for all pregnant women. In addition to the toll-free hotline, the 16-year-old foundation maintains the online PPD HOPE Information Center (www.ppdhope.com), which is the permanent home of the depression screening test, and educates health-care professionals. For more information about Congressman Rush, please visit www.house.gov/rush. About the Family Mental Health Foundation Founded in 1989, the Family Mental Health Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)3 organization based in Washington, D.C. It is dedicated to helping the estimated 400,000 women in the U.S. who suffer from major depression each year before or after giving birth. It does this by increasing public awareness of postpartum depression (PPD), helping affected women, implementing depression-screening programs and conducting professional education and research. The foundation wants every woman to know that PPD is a serious threat to them and their families. Its ultimate goal is to make universal depression screening a national standard of care. The foundation outreach programs include a hotline877-PPD-HOPE (773-4673)and a web site, the PPD Hope Resource Center (www.ppdhope.com). ###
05.06.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 6, 2005) Regardless of who wins this years Kentucky Derby, another chapter of Black History was secured when Congressman Bobby Rush announced today that his resolution honoring Jimmy Winkfield, an African American jockey, who is just one of four jockeys to take back-to-back Kentucky Derbies, passed in the U.S. House of Representatives. Rushs resolution recognizes and celebrates the significant contributions and excellence of African American jockeys and trainers in the sport of horse racing and in the history of the Kentucky Derby. I am pleased that my congressional colleagues joined me in recognizing Jimmy Winkfields renowned jockey talents and contributions to the sport of horse racing, which formally enshrines his legacy in not just Black History, but also American history, said Rush. The prestige and history of the Kentucky Derby would not be possible had it not been for Mr. Winkfield and the contributions of other African Americans jockeys and trainers. Jimmy Winkfield was born in an era when African American jockeys dominated the sport of horse racing, to the extent that African American riders won 15 of the first 28 Kentucky Derbies and in the first Kentucky Derby in 1875, 13 of the 15 jockeys were African American. Mr. Winkfield began his career shining shoes before moving up to stable hand. He later became an exercise rider and rode his first race at the age of 16. When he was 22, Winkfied won back-to-back Kentucky Derbies in 1901 (on his Eminence) and 1902 (on Alan-A-Dale), and placed second in 1903 (on Early). Winkfield is one of only four jockeys ever to accomplish this back-to-back feat. During his career, Winkfield was known as the king of the Chicago race tracks. -more- Congressman Bobby Rush Rides Black History into Kentucky Derby/page 2 Unfortunately, segregation eventually forced African American jockeys off the race track and often into exile. Winkfield left the U.S. for a career in Europe and settled in Czarist, Russia where he became a wealthy and dominant athlete in the countrys national sport. He won Russias national riding title an unheard of three times, and racked up wins in Germany, Poland and France. He was forced to flee Bolsheviks Communist Revolution in 1919, but not before taking 200 jockeys, trainers and owners with him to safe grounds. Winkfield retired in 1930 after accumulating 2,600 racing victories in 10 countries. For more information, please visit www.house.gov/rush. ###
05.02.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- I am pleased with the FBIs decision to exhume the body of 14-year-old Emmett Till as part of the Department of Justices (DOJ) reinvestigation of his 1955 murder and subsequent sham trial which set the perpetrators free back in Money, Mississippi. Its been 50 years of turmoil and unanswered questions for Tills family and the American people. No one can be certain as to what can be found using current forensic science methods, but I am hopeful that this exhumation effort will lead us down a revealing path of answers, action and prosecution of any surviving accomplices. This is a significant step toward closure for Mamie Till Mobley and the rest of the Till family. I made a vow to Mrs. Mobley before her death, that I would seek justice for her son. Since introducing the first congressional resolution in the U.S. Congress, where I called on the DOJ to reopen and reinvestigate Emmett Tills murder thoroughly and efficiently, its rewarding to know that we are finally moving in that direction. ###
04.28.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) announced today that he and a growing network of his congressional colleagues, women, families and postpartum depression groups across the country will come together in support of reintroduction of his bill, H.R. 1940 - Melanie Blocker-Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act on May 5, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. (EST), Washington D.C. in the Rayburn Building (Room 2218). Joining Congressman Rush will be Congressman Rush Holt (D-NJ), women who have suffered from postpartum depression including First Lady Mary Jo Codey, wife of Acting New Jersey Governor Richard Codey. Other congressional representatives are scheduled to appear. May is National Mental Health Month as well as the month of celebration of Mother's Day. Driven by the increased number of reported cases of women who have either harmed themselves or their children since the bill was first introduced in 2001, Congressman Rush expressed optimism this time around as more women speak out and his congressional colleagues step up with support. "Postpartum depression affects up to 20% of all mothers and does not discriminate against race, class or income," said Rush. Theres no greater cause worth fighting for than preservation of families. By targeting women, my bill ensures the entire family unit is healthy and prosperous. Last September, the Subcommittee on Health Committee on Energy and Commerce, of which Rush is a member, heard testimony from Carol Blocker, mother of Melanie Blocker Stokes, in support of his bill during the hearing, "Improving Women's Health: Understanding Depression After Pregnancy." The bill currently has 50 Members of Congress as co-sponsors. The bill also has the support of Postpartum Support International and other support networks. ###
04.17.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- In an effort to bring together parents, students, elected officials, teachers and school administrators for the purpose of sharing and discussing the critical role they all play in educating our children, Congressman Bobby Rush announced today that he will host a symposium, "Addressing Accountability by Acquiring Access to Resources," on Monday, April 25 at Simeon Career Academy High School located at 8235 S. Vincennes in the Auditorium at 6:30 p.m. The symposium will feature an informational exchange on the paramount need for accountability, an update on No Child Left Behind, Chicago Public Schools (CPS) and Illinois State Board of Education (ISBE) administrator overview as well as resources available for parents, schools and teachers. "While we preach to our children the benefits of excelling academically, as leaders, we need to focus on accountability rather than pointing fingers of failure to one specific group," said Rush. "We all have a responsibility to improve our education system, and I'm hoping this informational exchange will move us forward in our collective vision of better schools and high achieving students." Scheduled participants for the symposium include Dr. Patricia Sullivan, director of the Center on Education Policy; Xavier Botana, director of CPS No Child Left Behind Department of Accountability; Allison Cook; executive director of CPS Office of External Resources; Gail Lieberman, state coordinator for No Child Left Behind; Phyllis Hayes, director in the Office of School Relations for the University of Illinois at Chicago as well as representatives from the Office of Catholic Schools.
04.06.2005	Washington, DC. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that the Committee on Energy and Commerce, of which he is a member, passed his amendment during mark ups of the energy bill to increase funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and the Weatherization Assistance Program. "Recognizing the energy needs of the First Congressional District and the entire state of Illinois, this is a significant milestone to ensure residents do not go without critical heating and cooling options," said Rush. "I will continue to fight for those low-income households, which are the most vulnerable for health and safety issues during extreme weather conditions." For LIHEAP, which is designed to subsidize energy costs for low income households, Rush's amendment calls for increased funding by 50% from $3.4 billion to $5.1 billion. For the Weatherization Assistance Program, which retro-fits and "weatherizes" low-income households to help make them more energy efficient, Rush's amendment authorizes an additional $175 million for fiscal year 2006; an additional $200 million for fiscal year 2007; and an additional $200 million for 2008. The program also raises eligibility from 124% to 150% of the poverty level. With a $1.975 billion dollar LIHEAP allotment for 2005, Illinois currently receives $107,733,000. Rush's amendment passed overwhelmingly with a 33-16 vote. Assuming that the bill passes, the next step is for appropriators to honor and adhere to the authorization. If approved, the funds will be available in 2006.####
04.04.2005	Washington, DC.----Congressman Bobby L. Rush will award the first annual With Ownership, Wealth (WOW) Program of the Year award to the Chicago-based Rebirth of Englewood Development Corporation at the Best Practices Summit in Washington, D.C. hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) on Tuesday, April 5, 2005, for their leadership and development of programs that have increased minority homeownership. Since the establishment of the 10 Weeks to Homeownership program in 2003, the Rebirth of Englewood Development Community Development Corporation (ROE CDC) has helped more than 100 families close on home mortgages that have totaled $9 million. It is a great honor to recognize Rebirth of Englewood Development Corporation, because they have truly delivered on the Congressional Black Caucus vision to map out a strategy to increase homeownership, said Rush. The true reward, however, has always been taking families of renters and converting them into homeowners, which is the foundation for building wealth. The CBCF launched the WOW initiative five years ago in an effort to promote homeownership. With minority homeownership currently at 48 percent in comparison to 72 percent of white Americans, African Americans have benefited from programs such as 10 Weeks to Homeownership, which breaks down complicated details of the buying process. In 10 weeks, we provide participants with resources that educate and allow for open dialogue on all aspects of homeownership from reading a credit report, financing and what to look for during walk-through inspections of model homes, said Vincent Barnes, executive director of ROE CDC. We are honored to be first recipients of the Congressional Black Caucus Best Practices award and will continue to break down barriers of misinformation, which has previously discouraged African Americans from pursuing their dream of owning a home. The CBCF WOW Best Practices Summit is designed to bring together program stakeholders (e.g. members and their representatives, local non-profit practitioners, lenders, steering committees, advisory boards, and other housing industry professionals) from the local and national levels to discuss opportunities and challenges faced in the previous five years and share strategies for strengthening the program. The next 10 Weeks to Homeownership conference kicks off Saturday, May 14, 2005. To register, please call the Rebirth of Englewood Development Corporation at (773) 778-2371 or visit them on the Web at www.roecdc.net. ###
04.04.2005	Washington, DC. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush will be recognized as a recipient of the first annual With Ownership, Wealth (WOW) National Program of the Year award, where the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation commended his leadership and development of programs to increase minority homeownership in the First Congressional District. The WOW Practices Summit in Washington, D.C. hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) on Tuesday, April 5-6, 2005, is designed to bring together program stakeholders (e.g. members and their representatives, local non-profit practitioners, lenders, and other housing industry professionals) from the local and national levels to discuss strengths and challenges faced in the previous five years and share strategies for strengthening the program moving forward. Upon approval by the CBCF, these practices will be condensed into an action plan for immediate implementation by the WOW program. Since identifying the Rebirth of Englewood Development Community Development Corporation (ROE CDC) in 2000 as the 501 (3) not-for profit organization, responsible for establishing and executing local WOW initiatives and goals, Congressman Rush has been instrumental in helping more than 100 families close on home mortgages that have totaled $9 million. With minority homeownership currently at 48 percent in comparison to 72 percent of white Americans, African Americans in Chicago and the South Suburbs have benefited from ROE CDCs 10 Weeks to Homeownership, which breaks down complicated details of the buying process. It is a great honor to recognize Rebirth of Englewood Development Corporation, because they have truly delivered on the Congressional Black Caucus vision to map out a strategy to increase homeownership, said Rush. The true reward, however, has always been taking families of renters and converting them into homeowners, which is the foundation for building wealth. Congressman Rush has also established the First Congressional District of Illinois Housing Task Force that works directly with ROE CDC, in addition to addressing much wider housing and housing development issues. In 10 weeks, we provide participants with resources that educate and allow for open dialogue on all aspects of homeownership from reading a credit report, financing and what to look for during walk-through inspections of model homes, said Vincent Barnes, executive director of ROE CDC. We are honored to be first recipients of the Congressional Black Caucus Best Practices award and will continue to break down barriers of misinformation, which has previously discouraged African Americans from pursuing their dream of owning a home. The next 10 Weeks to Homeownership conference kicks off Saturday, May 14, 2005. To register, please call the Rebirth of Englewood Development Corporation at (773) 778-2371 or visit them on the Web at www.roecdc.net. ###
03.18.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- {In an ongoing effort to increase business ownership in the First Congressional District, Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that in partnership with SCORE Counselors to Americas Small Business, will make dreams of business ownership and growth a reality when they kick off their business training workshops at Rushs office on March 24, 2005 at 700 E. 79th Street, Chicago, IL from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Designed with the busy entrepreneur in mind, SCORE, which is a resource partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), will hold monthly workshops at Rushs city and suburban offices through October. Many areas of the First Congressional District are in need of critical business services, which are key to stimulating economic growth and community stabilization, said Rush. Im committed to providing the necessary resources to spur business growth, and challenge aspiring or established entrepreneurs to come out and take advantage of the SCORE workshops. At all the business workshops, SCORE representatives will provide participants with training and counseling on things to know when starting a business, how to improve or expand existing business, and business financing resources. To register, please call (708) 385-9550 or email Younus Suleman at younus.suleman@house.gov. To get dates and times for the SCORE workshops please click here.
03.10.2005	Washington, DC. ---- (March 10, 2005) Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he secured $16 million for road, highway and other related transportation projects for the 1st Congressional District. Rushs portion is included as part of todays passing of the House $284 billion approved six-year highway and construction bill. The House bill will now be introduced in the Senate. As part of my ongoing commitment to enhance the quality of life and stimulate economic growth in the First Congressional District, the passing of this bill will help achieve this goal through a number of transportation enhancement projects, said Rush. Below you will find the complete list of targeted projects and allocated funding: $2,000,000 - Improve 63rd Street, Chicago - $1,000,000 - Improve Cottage Grove intersection, South Chicago Avenue and 71st Street. $500,000 - Upgrade traffic signal system on 87th Street, Chicago. $600,000 - Construct I-57 Bridge Overpass, City of Markham. $500,000 - Construct Streetscape Project, City of Markham. $1,000,000 - Construct Bridge Overpass, DuSable Museum, Chicago. $400,000 - Resurface Clifton Park Ave. and S. Louis Ave., Village of Evergreen. $400,000 - Resurface Trumbull Ave. and Homan Ave., Evergreen Park. $400,000 - Construct Bike, Pedestrian Paths, Orland Hills. $400,000 - Construct Streetscape Project, Orland Hills. $800,000 - Construct Streetscape Project, Village of Robbins. $700,000 - Widen and improve Pulaski Road, Alsip. $1,000,000 - Construct I-80, Ridgeland Ave. Improvements, Tinley Park. $5,000,000 - Construct intermodal facility at 35th Street at Metra Red Line (Northside), Chicago. $1,000,000 - Establish Transit Signal Priority, Cicero Ave., Pace Suburban Bus. $300,000 - Feasibility Study for intermodal station on the Metra Rock Island near Kennedy-King College, Chicago, ILTotal: $16,000,000
03.08.2005	Washington, DC. ---- (March 8, 2005) - In an effort to reverse a dangerous trend of blocking students from attaining federal funds they need to go to college due to past mistakes, Congressman Bobby L. Rush and Members of Congress announced today that they would introduce new legislation that expands educational opportunities for ex-offenders with drug convictions. The press conference will take place Thursday, March 10, 10:30 a.m. -11:00 a.m. (EST) at the U.S. Capitol Building, Room HC8. An original co-sponsor of the House bill, Rep. Rush joins sponsor, Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA), 38 other congressional co-sponsors and more than 180 organizations, to ensure the Removing Impediments to Students' Education (RISE) Act becomes law. The RISE Act would amend the Higher Education Act of 1965. "There is no other category of crime that has a ban on financial aid eligibility, so to single out ex-offenders with drug convictions is unacceptable," said Rush. "Every individual deserves a second chance to pursue an education, and through the RISE Act, I will fight to ensure they receive one." According to the Department of Education, nearly 160,000 students have been denied financial aid since the drug provision was enacted in 1998. This number does not include individuals who failed to apply because of the law or gave up in the middle of the application process once they reached Question #31 on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), which reads: Has the student ever been convicted of selling illegal drugs?
02.15.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today that he would take part in a candlelight vigil on February 18 to honor victims and families of the tsunami disaster. As Southeast Asia and East Africa begin their recovery efforts, this tribute will give the Chicagoland area an opportunity to pay tribute to victims such as Hyde Park resident Tamara Mendis, who was killed when a wave swept her passenger train off track in Sri Lanka. Mendis family resides in Congressman Rush's 1st Congressional District. Tamaras widow, Eardley Mendis, will be on hand for the event. Its been more than six weeks since the tsunami disaster, but the devastation continues, said Rush. Families are still dealing with the loss of loved ones and survivors are struggling to rebuild their lives. If we can come together as a city, we can bring about change for the tsunami victims and other national disasters. The vigil is scheduled for Friday, February 18, 2005 at the Federal Plaza (Kluczynksi Federal Building), 230 S. Dearborn, Chicago, IL from 5:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. Participating organizations include: UNICEF, Fire Reserve Development Program, Asian Human Services, Inc., Vietnamese Association of Illinois, Pakistan Federation of America Chicago, Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, DeVry University, Department of Health and Human Services, Taiwan Benevolent Association, Asian Social Network, Chinese Mutual Aid Association, Midwest Business Alliance, Asian American Small Business Association, Afghan Network, The Thai Association of Illinois, Bangladesh Association of Illinois and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Chicago. Participating offices of Consul Generals include: China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Pakistan, Philippine, Sri Lanka, South Africa and Thailand. For more information, please call (708) 385-9550 or (773) 224-6500. You can also visit us on the web: www.house.gov/rush. ###
02.10.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (February 10, 2005) - With so much attention surrounding proposed changes to Social Security, Congressman Bobby L. Rush announced today he will convene a town hall meeting to provide information and better understand the concerns of constituents in the First Congressional District on Saturday, February 19, 2005 from 9:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. at Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County (recreation building), 15900 South Cicero Avenue, Oak Forest, IL, 15900 South Cicero Avenue, Oak Forest, IL. On hand will be Mary Mahler, regional director of public affairs for the Social Security Administration, who will present the current state of Social Security. In addition, there will be a panel discussion regarding Social Security proposed reform changes, featuring representatives from the Chicago Department of Aging, Illinois Department of Aging, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and the Palos, Lemont, Orland and Worth Townships (PLOWS) Council on Aging. "This town hall meeting is an opportunity for constituents to ask questions, get answers and enhance their understanding of issues surrounding the current and future state of Social Security," Rep. Rush. "I look forward to hearing the concerns of the community, which will play a vital role in upcoming decision making regarding proposed legislation and guide informative debates with my congressional colleagues." For more information, please call 773-224-6550 / 708-385-9550 or visit us on the web: www.house.gov/rush.
01.31.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush was on hand today at the ribbon cutting ceremony for the new University of Chicago Comer Childrens Hospital, the newest pediatric hospital in the city, which is slated to open in late winter. The $135-million facility, designed to be at the forefront of pediatric care, provides a state-of-the-art, family-focused environment for all in-patient pediatric services at the University of Chicago Hospitals. Rep. Rush secured $550,000 in federal funds, which will go toward facility development and a new pediatric emergency room. Completion of this project is scheduled for the summer of 2006. The new University of Chicago Comer Childrens Hospital is a showcase of what occurs when concerned citizens, advanced medical technology and government come together on behalf of our children, said Rush. The new hospital is named after Gary C. Comer, founder of the Lands End clothing-catalogue company, and his wife, Frances, who together donated $21 million to help build the facility. This matches the largest donation ever presented to the University of Chicago Hospitals. Its the fourth largest naming gift to any childrens hospital in the United States. Construction began on the University of Chicago Comer Childrens Hospital in 2001. The 242,000-square-foot, 155-bed, seven-story building is home to nationally recognized programs in cardiology, neurology, neonatology, transplantation and other medical and surgical specialties. Its more than twice the size of the current childrens hospital, which covers 95,000 square feet and has 140 beds. Comer Childrens Hospital extends north to south from 57th Street to 58th Street, and east to west from Drexel Avenue to Maryland Avenue. Its 354 feet long and 133 feet wide. Bridges, tunnels and walkways connect it to the Bernard A. Mitchell Hospital, the adult in-patient facility, and the Duchossois Center for Advanced Medicine, which houses both the outpatient pediatric and adult specialty clinics. We couldnt have done this without the tremendous support of Gary and Frances Comer, said Michael Riordan, president and chief executive officer of the University of Chicago Hospitals. Their generous donation enables Comer Childrens Hospital to be the best in providing pediatric health care. The new hospital provides the optimal setting for the rapidly advancing technologies of pediatric medicine. It includes two 30-bed medical/surgical units, predominantly private rooms. It includes a two-story, 30-bed pediatric intensive care unit, more than twice the capacity of the current unit. The neonatal intensive care unit, at 55 beds, already one of the largest in the Midwest, expanded to 65 beds and doubled the space per bed. The new hospital has six surgical suites, with operating rooms, 21 preoperative areas and recovery rooms designed to suit the specific needs of pediatric and newborn surgical patients. The University of Chicago Comer Childrens Hospital is a remarkable synthesis of form and function. Doctors, nurses, parents and even the children we treat contributed to the design process, said Steve A. N. Goldstein, M.D., Ph.D., chairman of the department of pediatrics and physician-in-chief of the University of Chicago Comer Childrens Hospital. The result is a light, cheerful, inviting space that contains the most advanced diagnostic, medical and surgical technology in the world. In Chicagos Comer Childrens Hospital we will provide health care in an environment designed so that our children and their families feel safe, positive and at-home. Designed for Family-Focused Care Comer Children's Hospital unites advanced technology with a family-focused, kid-friendly philosophy embraced at the University of Chicago Children's Hospital. Two architecture firms worked together to design Comer Childrens Hospital. Stanley Beaman & Sears, based in Atlanta, was responsible for the buildings exterior. A team from the Chicago office of HLM Design planned the hospitals interior. Design input also came from doctors, nurses and staff as well as patients and their families. The result was a hospital where children and their families have a level of control over their environment. Patient rooms are big enough to accommodate family members 308 square feet, compared to the 177 square feet of the current childrens hospital and include a pullout sofa bed for parents and flat-screen TVs from which children can access on-demand movies, music, appropriate Web sites and e-mail. Patients can regulate the climate and lighting of their rooms and adjust the height of the showerhead in their bathroom. They also can order food from a menu and have it delivered similar via room service style. Herbert T. Abelson, M.D., George M. Eisenberg Professor and former chairman of the department of pediatrics at The University of Chicago Hospitals, funded the Health Professions Library, located on the first floor. It provides resources for the hospitals multidisciplinary staff. The University of Chicago Childrens Hospital has been a beacon for our community. It was just a small way for my wife and me to give back to the Hospitals and the department. The Family Care Center, located on the second floor near the neonatal intensive care unit, provides accommodations for families facing longer stays. The center includes eight private sleeping rooms with private bathrooms and showers, laundry facilities and a vending machine area. A family kitchen is located on the sixth floor. The Family Learning Center is a resource area for adults on the main floor. It provides computers with Internet access, books, videos, and other tools for learning about childhood health and illnesses. The center offers educational and supportive services that include training for post-hospital care, preventive and wellness education, information about recreational opportunities, and places to stay in the Chicago area as well as reading games, computer games and videos for patients and their siblings. A 5,000-square-foot outdoor playground provides challenging, yet accessible play equipment for children of all abilities. Small play areas also can be found inside the hospital on floors three through six. The largest indoor play area the Family Central Playroom is on the main floor. A 6,000-square-foot Healing Garden, located on Comer Childrens Hospitals fourth floor, will be completed in 2006. It will provide a therapeutic environment where patients, families and staff can find relief from stress. ###
01.21.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- (January 21, 2005) Congressman Bobby L.Rush and the Illinois Delegation announced today that they have secured more than $2 million in additional federal funding for Chicago Public Schools (CPS). The allocated funds will be used to help the school district move forward on each of its three core strategies in the 2005-2006 school year. Rep. Rush, CPS officials and other Illinois congressmen made the announcement at Jahn Elementary School, 3149 N. Wolcott Ave. Funds are earmarked for a variety of CPS projects, including the child-parent centers, after-school programs, the Reading Initiative, programs for at-risk youth, a teacher training initiative and a campus improvement project. U.S. Reps. Bobby L. Rush, Rahm Emanuel, Jesse Jackson Jr. and Jan Schakowsky attended the news conference. U.S. Reps. Danny Davis, Luis Gutierrez, and House Speaker Dennis Hastert also were instrumental in securing funding. We're here today to celebrate more than two million dollars of funding that the federal government has awarded Chicago Public Schools this year - recognition of the quality of the programs for students and families at CPS, Emanuel said. Securing this funding was the result of a group effort, and I appreciate everything that the entire Illinois delegation has done to make these important earmarks a reality. Committed to ensuring that students excel both in school and in life, Rush fought hard for an appropriation that enhances CPS career academies project. Im a firm believer that in order for children to ultimately excel in the boardroom, critical educational and professional development must begin in the classroom, Rush said. I will continue to work with Chicago Public Schools on their Education-to-Careers program, because it is a future forward advancement designed to prepare our students for a competitive marketplace. After-school programs have long been a priority for Jackson. Studies have shown that students who spend extended amounts of time alone after school are more likely to experience problems ranging from poor school performance or low self-esteem, to increased chances of becoming involved with drugs and violence, Jackson said. That's why, as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I felt that it was important to keep my long-standing commitment to securing funds for the Chicago Public Schools after-school programs. Schakowsky said that an appropriation for CPS Child-Parent-Centers program was her top priority. It is critical to invest in innovative programs like CPS's Child-Parent Center, she said. Involving parents more intimately in their young children's education is a sure way to help our children excel in the future. I will continue to work with the Chicago Public Schools to ensure that our children's educational needs are met in and out of the classroom. The new funding for next year is in addition to a $2.1 million U.S. Department of Defense grant, secured by U.S. Sen. Richard Durbin to operate a new Naval Academy in an existing Chicago high school. Were fortunate here in Chicago to have legislators who understand the vital role education plays in our society, and who have done their best to support it in every possible way, Chicago Board of Education President Michael Scott said. CPS Chief Executive Officer Arne Duncan said the financial support was sorely needed in this time of budget constraints. I want to personally thank all of our congressional delegates for securing this desperately needed funding for our schools, Duncan said. These grants will help us boost our literacy efforts, improve the training and recruitment of our teachers and administrators, and create more learning opportunities for our students, which all target our core strategies. Among 05 appropriations for CPS from the U.S. Department of Education are: $600,000 for the Child-Parent Centers program, obtained by Schakowsky and Gutierrez. The initiative will target children and parents in need of before- and after-school activities. $800,000 for the Chicago Academy/Academy of Urban School Leadership, 3400 N. Austin, Blvd., acquired by Durbin and Emanuel. As one of the most innovative teacher training programs in the country, the Academy offers resident teachers a year-long teacher training program in combination with a masters degree in education. In return, residents commit to teaching in underserved Chicago schools for five additional years. The funding allowed the Academy to add a high school in addition to its elementary school program. $340,000 for Education-to-Careers, from Rush and Hastert, to improve the quality of existing career academies by redesigning the schools schedules to allow for common planning time and professional development. $225,000 for CPS After-School Programs, from Jackson. Additional funds for the Chicago Reading Initiative from Davis.These grants are one reflection of the ongoing commitment of our congressional delegation to finding the resources necessary to secure the highest quality education for our youth and express a recognition of the unique and irreplaceable role of public education in our democracy, Davis said. Additionally, Rush secured $72,700 for the Chicago Board of Education to go toward construction and renovation of a Chicago high school. Emanuel also obtained $300,000 in funding from the U.S. Department of Justice for programs focusing on at-risk youth within Chicago schools, and a $72,500 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grant for Chicago Academys gym renovation project. The Chicago Public Schools is the nations third-largest school system. It includes more than 600 schools and serves about 431,000 students. ###
01.14.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) announced today that he give special congressional recognition to the individuals, who witnessed various accounts of the 1955 murder of 14-year-old murder of Emmett Till. This recognition is part of Congressman Rush's continued efforts to seek justice in the sham, murder trial of Till, where the accused were acquitted of the crime by an all-white jury. "While I continue to pursue federal justice for all perpetrators involved in Emmett Till's murder trial 50 years ago, extending an earnest gesture of gratitude to the other young men who were impacted by this heinous crime is also long overdue," said Rep. Rush. "Although Emmett Till paid the unfortunate price with his life, the survivors exhibited great bravery while enduring the hardships of racism and death threats." Rep. Rush introduced a resolution last February calling on the Department of Justice (DOJ) to reopen Emmett Till's murder case. A bipartisan, bicameral resolution for the DOJ and the state of Mississippi to act more quickly to hold those accountable was introduced last November. The resolution directs the DOJ to pursue this investigation in a timely manner due to the amount of time that has passed since the crime was committed and the age of the witnesses. A copy of the resolution is attached. The awards ceremony is in conjunction with the Chicago premiere screening of the critically acclaimed documentary, "The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till, " by filmmaker, Keith Beauchamp at the Gene Siskel Film Center. The screening begins at 7:45 p.m (CST). The ceremony takes place at 9:00 p.m followed by an audience discussion with the witnesses and the director. The witnesses and their roles are: John and Roosevelt Crawford - Both were present at the store the day of the "wolf whistle." John helped identify Till's body. Rev. Wheeler Parker - the cousin who traveled to Mississippi with Till. He was also present during the "wolf whistle" and the night of the abduction. Simeon Wright - the cousin who was present during the "wolf whistle" and in bed with Emmett the night of the abduction. Willie Reed - the surprise witness for the prosecution, who heard Till's tortured screams.
01.13.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush along with officials from the City of Chicago and Metra joined together today to dedicate an all-new commuter station at 3259 W. Columbus Avenue, which is located on Metras SouthWest Service line from Orland Park. Continuing the trend of replacing and updating a number of commuter stations, Congressman Rush is excited about what the new Metra Wrightwood station brings to the community. The Wrightwood commuter station is a fine example of how by responding to the needs of the public, we set new standards for safe and efficient transportation, said Rep. Rush. As the southwest region continues to grow, its good to see state, regional and federal resources at the forefront of positively impacting the commuter experience. Alderman Thomas Murphy (18th) and Metra Director Larry A. Huggins were also on hand at the event. The southwest region continues to grow at an astounding rate, said Huggins. That is why Metra is committed to providing safe, quality train service and to keeping up with the demand for travel that accompanies this growth. Replacing a station that dates back to 1987, the $1 million investment includes a 600-square-foot brick depot, 635-foot paved platform with benches, and 90-space parking lot. Other amenities include visual and audio information systems, signs, and lighting. The project was funded by the Federal Transit Administration, the Illinois Department of Transportation, and the Regional Transportation Authority. Located nearly 12 miles from the lines terminus in downtown Chicago, Wrightwood is served by 16 trains each weekday and handles about 150 daily boardings. Metra provides commuter rail service between the downtown Chicago business district and 225 stations in northeast Illinois communities over 11 routes totaling approximately 500 miles of service territory. Metra operates 700 weekday trains, providing 292,000 passenger trips.
01.07.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby L. Rush believes the recent overturn of Andrea Yates' murder conviction opens the door for law enforcement and the public to better understand and work toward treating postpartum depression as a medical condition rather than criminal behavior. A strong supporter of women's health issues such as postpartum depression, Rep. Rush introduced the bill, H.R. 846- Melanie Blocker-Stokes Postpartum Depression Research and Care Act, last February, which provides for research on and services for individuals with postpartum depression and psychosis. The bill is named after a Chicago woman who jumped to her death in 2001. Rep. Rush, who plans to reintroduce the bill when Congress reconvenes in late January, hopes the recent turn of events in Yates' case help erase the stigma associated with postpartum depression. Many people, including men, don't even consider it a true illness. "It's time for us to recognize postpartum depression for what it is - a mental health condition that requires medical treatment, not jail time," says Rep. Rush. Although a women's issue, it impacts the entire family as countless mothers, wives, daughters and sisters suffer from this disease." According to studies, 60-80% of women who have recently given birth experience symptoms of postpartum blues. Postpartum depression, which is more serious, affects up to 20% of new mothers, such as the late Melanie Blocker-Stokes. With symptoms such as despondency, sadness, fatigue and anxiousness, this is an issue that impairs the joys of motherhood.
01.03.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. (JANUARY 3, 2005) ---- I am saddened by the recent death of Congressman Robert T. Matsui. A friend and fellow colleague, Bobs presence will be sorely missed in the walls of Congress and on the streets of California. Bobs commitment to fight on behalf on his constituents is undeniable, and his dedication to equality is unforgettable. I want to express my deepest condolences to his family, and pray that they find comfort in Bobs indelible contributions to American history.
01.03.2005	Chicago, IL. ---- My heart is heavy over the loss of Shirley Chisholm, a pioneer in politics. As the first Black woman elected to Congress, Ms. Chisholms tenacity and unapologetic voice on key issues will be forever remembered by her constituents and colleagues. She opened doors for people such as myself, and I will always be eternally grateful.Refusing to set limitations, Ms. Chisholms trailblazing spirit invigorated women, African-Americans and others to get involved in the political process by merely keeping her finger on the pulse of the people. A first on many accounts and fighter for equal rights, civil rights and human rights, Shirley Chisholm has left a lasting impression on us all.
12.22.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C.---- (December 22, 2004) Congressman Bobby L. Rush and fellow members of the Illinois Delegation announced today that they have forwarded a letter of request to Secretary Rod Paige in response to the Department of Educations decision to restrict Chicago Public Schools (CPS) from providing direct tutoring services to students. Citing the negative impact it will have on approximately 80,000 students if the cuts are implemented mid-year, the Illinois Delegation also stressed the financial and double standard ramifications. Attached you will find the full text of the letter:
12.16.2004	Chicago, IL. ---- Congressman Bobby Rush, in conjunction with the Beloved Christian Community Church, where he also serves as pastor, will host his 3rd Annual Holiday Give-A-Way, Congressman Rush will distribute over 500 food baskets, and more than $70,000 of new children's clothes to residents on Saturday, December 18, 2004 at Kershaw Elementary School - 6450 S. Lowe Street, Chicago, from 10:00AM to 2PM. Congressman Rush will also make direct donations to various South Side and South Suburban locations, including women's shelters, community centers, hospitals and village halls throughout the First Congressional District. Corporate sponsors include Sears, Dominick's, Jewel-Osco, Pepsi USA, Comcast, Kraft Foods, Wal-Mart and General Mills. ###
