03.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2019 Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open for submissions from all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District and all entries must be received by Tuesday, April 30th, 2019. A panel of local art experts will review all submitted artwork, select the top ten submissions and then vote on the winning submission. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. There will also be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Quincy, or Brockton office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. For more information on the competition, please contact the office at (617) 428-2000 or visit the website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. “Many high school students in the 8th Congressional District are passionate about art, and the annual congressional art competition is an exciting opportunity for those students to share their creativity and skill,” said Congressman Lynch. “Over the last year, visitors to the U.S. Capitol have had the chance to see “American Dream” by last year’s Congressional Art Competition winner, Mya Tomlinson, a student from Norwood High School. Her piece, which includes vivid drawings of important African-American leaders in our nation’s history, including Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, Maya Angelou, and President Barack Obama, was created with color pencils and markers to illustrate her patriotism and highlight the importance of civil rights. I look forward to seeing this year’s original artwork submissions from students across the 8th Congressional District and I encourage everyone interested to apply.” Downloads » 2019_Student_Release_Form_Fillable.pdf» 2019 Rules for Students and Teachers.doc.pdf
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus for the 116th Congress, introduced H.R. 976, the Air Traffic Noise and Pollution Expert Consensus Act to address increasing community concerns about airplane noise and pollution by requiring the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to sponsor an Expert Consensus Report issued by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine on the health effects of airplanes flying over residential areas. Expert Consensus Reports produced by the National Academies examine scientific and technological issues of national importance. “There is a clear demand from our constituents that we look into the impacts of flight paths across the country,” said Congressman Lynch. “It is imperative that we understand and remedy any health effects caused by aircraft flying over residential areas, and the burden is on the FAA to produce this information.” Federal and regional transportation authorities have received an increased number of complaints around airplane noise as new flight paths have been implemented as part of the FAA’s “Next Generation Air Transportation System.” The program – often referred to as “NextGen” – shifted flight paths in and out of airports, causing increased airplane activity over certain residential areas. In Massachusetts alone, MASSPORT received over 71,000 complaints about aviation-related noise from across 83 communities, including Hull, Hingham, Milton, and Boston, in 2018, which increased the number of complaints received in 2017 by almost 20%, and almost doubled the amount of complaints received in 2016. Congressman Lynch’s Air Traffic Noise and Pollution Expert Consensus Act would make available the best scientific information on the health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution by requiring the FAA to sponsor an Expert Consensus Report from the Division of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Under the bill, the National Academies would be required to convene a committee of health and environmental science experts within 30 days. The committee would examine the health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution and issue the Expert Consensus Report with their findings. The report would be submitted to the FAA Administrator, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and relevant Congressional Committees, including the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Congressman Lynch sits on the Aviation Subcommittee of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Cosponsors of the bill include: Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus Co-Chair Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus Vice- Chairs Thomas Suozzi (D-NY) and Mike Quigley (D-IL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL),Ted Lieu (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA,) Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Adam Smith (D- WA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Karen Bass (D-CA), and Kathleen Rice (D-NY). The text of H.R. 976, the Air Traffic Noise and Pollution Expert Consensus Act, can be read here.
02.02.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) reintroduced the White House Ethics Transparency Act, H.R. 391, originally introduced in 2017 in response to the blatant refusal of the Trump Administration to disclose ethics waivers to employees of the White House and other executive branch agencies, allowing them to bypass ethics rules. The White House Ethics Transparency Act will be included in H.R. 1, the For the People Act, the Democratic government accountability and transparency bill that has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Reform. The White House Ethics Transparency Act will maximize transparency and accountability by requiring the Trump and future Administrations to promptly disclose waivers of executive branch ethics rules to the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) – an independent agency that is statutorily authorized to ensure ethics compliance in the executive branch. The White House Ethics Transparency Act will also require the public posting of ethics waivers on the White House and OGE websites. “We have seen firsthand the Trump Administration waive its own ethics rules for officials and flood the White House and other federal agencies with former lobbyists, consultants, and industry attorneys whose previous work presents serious conflict of interest concerns,” said Congressman Lynch. “We all watched President Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn plead guilty to lying to the FBI about his lobbying work for Turkey and his interactions with then Russian-Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, and the White House Ethics Transparency Act would have prevented his appointment in the first place. The Trump Administration continues to impede oversight by the Office of Government Ethics and this bill would ensure the American people know precisely who is working behind closed doors in their government.” In particular, the White House Ethics Transparency Act requires the Administration to disclose ethics waivers granted to executive branch officials within 30 days of issuance. Moreover, the bill requires the public posting of ethics waivers on the White House and the OGE websites. The scope of the bill includes Executive Order 13770, the “Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Appointees,” which was signed by President Trump on January 28, 2017. Executive Order 13770 includes several provisions covering individuals appointed on or after January 20, 2017. Under H.R. 391, waivers issued to individuals on or after January 20, 2017 would be subject to release to the OGE and public disclosure. When the White House Ethics Transparency Act was originally introduced in 2017, Congressman Lynch and Congressman O’Halleran sent a letter to the OMB Director Mulvaney expressing concern over the Trump Administration’s refusal to publicly disclose ethics waivers for high-ranking officials. The letter, signed by 58 House Democrats, noted “As Members of Congress, we are committed and bound to ensuring the American public has faith in the institutions that serve them – that includes upholding our ethics rules to keep conflicts of interest out of the highest levels of our government. To that end, we urge you to immediately comply with OGE’s original request to deliver all copies of waivers issued to appointees by the original June 1 deadline.” The text of H.R. 391, the White House Ethics Transparency Act of 2019, is available here.
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Stephen F. Lynch joined the Chairman of the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee, John B. Larson (CT-01), and his House colleagues in introducing the Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 860, which will expand Social Security’s vital benefits, financially strengthen the system and cut taxes for over 10 million seniors throughout the 21st century. “We owe it to every hard working American to give them the insurance they have paid for throughout their lifetime of work to fund their retirement, disability and survivor benefits,” said Lynch. “Social Security provides economic security for nearly everyone, and the Social Security 2100 Act takes common sense steps to increase these benefits and to make the system financially secure.” The Social Security 2100 Act will provide the following: • A benefit bump for current and new beneficiaries (the equivalent of 2% of the average benefit) • An improved cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) that takes into account the true costs incurred by seniors • Protect low income workers, so no one who paid into the system over a lifetime retires into poverty • A tax cut for over 12 million Social Security recipients by eliminating the tax on their benefits • Ensure that any increase in benefits from the Bill do not result in a reduction in SSI benefits or loss of eligibility for Medicaid or CHIP • Apply the payroll tax to wages above $400,000, which would only affect the top 0.4% of wage earners • Gradually phase in an increase in the contribution rate that would average paying an additional 50 cents per week every year to keep the system solvent Social Security is the most important source of retirement income for 4 out of 5 seniors, and it provides protections to disabled workers and families who have lost a breadwinner. Through the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can improve benefits while ensuring Social Security remains financially strong throughout the century. You may read the text of the Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 860, here.
01.24.2019	Washington, D.C. - As one of the most senior Members of the Committee on Oversight and Reform, Chairman Stephen F. Lynch has been named the Chairman of the National Security Subcommittee. Representative Lynch has been a leader on national security issues for many years and has the distinction of having traveled to the conflict zones of Afghanistan and Iraq as often as any Member of Congress. He will lead the Subcommittee’s oversight efforts on national security, homeland security, foreign operations (including the relationships of the United States with other nations), immigration, defense and veterans. “I am very pleased to be named Chairman of the National Security Subcommittee for the 116th Congress, and eager to take on these critical responsibilities” said Lynch. “As Chairman I vow to re-start active Congressional oversight of President Trump’s National Defense Strategy, which has been ill-defined and prone to sudden and erratic revision. I will ensure there is proper oversight related to the use of cyberespionage against U.S. Government entities and the private sector, and I plan to start a robust oversight on pipeline safety and security as we have witnessed an alarming number of gas explosions across the country recently. We have a lot of work to do, and I am prepared to get it done.”
01.04.2019	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, U.S. Representative Stephen Lynch (D-MA) and U.S. Representative Ted Budd (R-NC) reintroduced their bipartisan legislation, H.R. 56, the Financial Technology Protection Act, which will help stop the illicit use of new financial technologies. Last year, the Financial Technology Protection Act (H.R. 5036), passed both the House Financial Services Committee and the House of Representatives with unanimous support. The Financial Technology Protection Act brings industry insiders and federal regulators together to find best practices and solutions to stop the problem of illicit use of new financial technologies. Additionally, the legislation, if enacted, would create a reward pool for innovation in stopping terrorist use of cryptocurrencies and creates a targeted rewards program for information leading to the capture of terrorists and other illicit actors using cryptocurrencies for terrorism or other nefarious purposes. Reps. Lynch and Budd released the following joint statement after introduction of H.R. 56: “When our bill passed the House unanimously last session, Congress showed that it understands that illicit financing networks are the linchpin of any terrorist or criminal organization’s operations. As we move into an increasingly digital and technology centered world, criminals and terrorists will start to use new technologies that are available to them. H.R. 56 will help put a stop to this trend. We hope to gain on the tremendous ground made in the House last session and find a way to move H.R. 56 in the Senate.” The text of the Financial Technology Protection Act, H.R. 56, can be read here.
12.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last week the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2315, To posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to each of Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean Smith in recognition of their contributions to the Nation, which was led by Rep Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Rep Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Rep Davis (D-CA) and Rep Brian Mast (R-FL). This bipartisan legislation will posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to US Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Navy SEAL Glen Doherty, Navy SEAL Tyrone Woods and U.S. State Department officer Sean Smith to honor their lifetime commitment to the safety and security of the American people. In view of the recent sixth year anniversary of the September 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate and classified annex in Benghazi, Libya, it is important that Congress recognize those brave individuals who sacrificed their lives to defend America and its values. For over 20 years, Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens served his country through his remarkable career in the Foreign Service. From his first assignment as a Consular/Economic Officer in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to his final assignment as U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Ambassador Stevens never failed to evidence his dedication to upholding America’s most cherished democratic ideals across the globe. During their decades of service as elite Navy SEALs with tours of duty in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other overseas wartime deployments, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods embodied the Navy SEAL motto: “The Only Easy Day Was Yesterday.” In continued service to their Nation, they served as overseas security personnel to ensure the safety of American diplomatic officials. Their bravery and leadership in defense of America’s diplomatic mission in Benghazi in 2012, and other dangerous diplomatic missions worldwide, will never be forgotten. As a former ground radio maintenance specialist in the U.S. Air Force, Sean Smith served his country with such distinction that he received the Air Force Commendation Medal. He maintained his commitment to serving the American people throughout his subsequent career with the U.S. State Department and across multiple deployments in Iraq, South Africa, and Libya. Amy Carnevale from K&L Gates Law Firm provided assistance with this legislation and is deserving of recognition for her diligent support. The text of H.R. 2315 is available here.
12.14.2018	Washington, DC - On Thursday, Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) introduced the House companion of Senator Warren’s (D-MA) Accountable Capitalism Act. Senator Warren introduced the bill in August to help eliminate skewed market incentives and return to the era when American corporations and American workers did well together. The legislation empowers American workers and aims to reverse the harmful corporate trend over the last thirty years that have produced record corporate profits for American companies but stagnant wages for American workers. “I’m proud to partner with Representatives Luján, Pocan, Lynch, Boyle, and Schakowsky on this bill to empower American workers,” said Senator Warren. “With the support of this powerful group of House leaders, we’re one big step closer to helping American workers get the higher wages they deserve.” "I am proud to join my colleagues Representatives Luján, Pocan, Boyle and Schakowsky to introduce the House companion Bill to Senator Warren's legislation," said Congressman Lynch. "Hopefully this Bill will help to rebalance the relationship for workers and give employees a stronger voice in the workplace." “Throughout our country’s history, the well-being of our workers has been directly linked to the prosperity we have achieved as a nation,” said Congressman Luján. “Yet today, working families in my district and across the country face rising costs of living and stagnant wages. Elevating the voices of workers in our corporate boardrooms will help restore balance in our economy. The Accountable Capitalism Act is an innovative and commonsense approach to level the playing field. I thank Senator Warren for her partnership on this effort.” “Today, it’s more important than ever that we give American workers the opportunity to have a seat at the table to make critical decisions on their rights and their future. Unfortunately, runaway corporate power is causing more benefits to flow to shareholders and CEOs, while families are struggling to make ends meet,” said Congressman Pocan. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing the House companion bill to Sen. Warren’s Accountable Capitalism Act to take a strong step forward leveling the playing field for America’s middle class. Together, we will empower American workers and build an economy that works for everyone.” “American workers feel the system is rigged against them – and they’re right,” said Congressman Boyle. “Washington has only exacerbated this trend. Look no further than the Republican tax scam and the record profits, stock buybacks, and stagnant wages we’ve seen since. Clearly we can no longer afford to sit back and hope corporations act in the best interests of their employees. The Accountable Capitalism Act represents a great step toward making that a reality.” “For the past 40 years, economic growth has gone to the top one percent, and workers have seen their wages stagnate and their jobs shipped overseas,” said Congresswoman Schakowsky. “Even with high profile examples like General Motors announcing its intent to perversely kill roughly 15,000 American jobs leading to its stock price increasing by five percent, the Republican majority over the last eight years has done nothing to right this wrong. In fact, Republicans have made things much worse by crafting that misguided tax bill. That is why I have chosen to be an original cosponsor of the Accountable Capitalism Act, a bill that will ensure the American economy gets back on track and works for everyone, not just the wealthy. I am proud to stand with my friend and incoming Assistant Speaker, Ben-Ray Lujan, on this important bill.” Since the passage of the Republican tax bill earlier this year, American companies have done more than $800 billion in stock buybacks, while real wages for workers remain stagnant. There is an urgent need to end the grip of shareholder value maximization and return to the era when American corporations produced broad-based growth that helped workers and shareholders alike. The Accountable Capitalism Act: Compels company directors to consider the interests of all corporate stakeholders - including employees, customers, shareholders, and communities in which the company operates - by requiring American corporations with $1 billion or more in annual revenue to obtain a federal charter as a “United States corporation.” This approach is derived from the thriving benefit corporation model that 33 states and the District of Columbia have adopted and that companies like Patagonia, Danone North America, and Kickstarter have embraced with strong results. Empowers workers at United States corporations to elect at least 40% of Board members: Borrowing from the successful approach in Germany and other developed economies, a United States corporation must ensure that no fewer than 40% of its directors are selected by the corporation's employees. Restricts the sales of company shares by the directors and officers of United States corporations: Top corporate executives are now compensated mostly in company equity, which gives them huge financial incentives to focus exclusively on shareholder returns. To ensure that they are focused on the long-term interests of all corporate stakeholders, the bill prohibits directors and officers of United States corporations from selling company shares within five years of receiving them or within three years of a company stock buyback. Prohibits United States corporations from making any political expenditures without the approval of 75% of its directors and shareholders: Drawing on a proposal from John Bogle, the founder of the investment company Vanguard, United States corporations must receive the approval of at least 75% of their shareholders and 75% of their directors before engaging in political expenditures. This ensures any political expenditures benefit all corporate stakeholders. Permits the federal government to revoke the charter of a United States corporation if the company has engaged in repeated and egregious illegal conduct: State Attorneys General are authorized to submit petitions to the Office of United States Corporations to revoke a United States corporation's charter. If the Director of the Office finds that the corporation has a history of egregious and repeated illegal conduct and has failed to take meaningful steps to address its problems, she may grant the petition. The company's charter would then be revoked a year later - giving the company time before its charter is revoked to make the case to Congress that it should retain its charter in the same or in a modified form. The text of H.R. 7294, To establish the obligations of certain large business entities in the United States, and for other purposes, is available here.
10.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to oppose any efforts to privatize essential U.S. military operations in Afghanistan, including the privatization proposal advocated by former Blackwater USA Chief Executive Officer Erik Prince in recent meetings with Afghan Government officials. The letter has been signed by Full Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and National Security Subcommittee members Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), and Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-CA). “The outsourcing of core military functions to a private security force comes at great risk to the safety of deployed U.S. military and civilian personnel in theatre, and will dramatically increase American spending on a war that the U.S. Department of Defense estimates has already cost American taxpayers more than $718 billion since 2001," said Lynch. “We strongly oppose the outsourcing of core U.S. military functions and combat missions to mercenaries employed by ‘for-profit’ corporate interests and we also believe that converting the world’s most effective fighting force into a commercial enterprise would tarnish the honor and diminish the sacrifice of those who have served our country. In total, acquiescing to Mr. Prince’s plan would gravely damage U.S. standing in the world," added Lynch. Mr. Prince continues to promote his plan to privatize the war in Afghanistan by replacing the estimated 23,000 American and NATO troops on the ground with a much smaller force primarily led by approximately 6,000 U.S. and multinational private security contractors. This private security force would be supplemented by 2,000 U.S. Special Operations Forces. According to the New York Times, Mr. Prince recently “made his sales pitch directly to a host of influential Afghans,” from “lowly militia commanders, to former cabinet officials and entrenched regional strongmen to several potential presidential candidates.” “The outsourcing of core military functions in Afghanistan to private for-profit corporations sends the wrong message about U.S. commitments and will serve to further destabilize the country and degrade the security of U.S. military and civilian personnel stationed in the region,” wrote Lynch. Read the letter here. Downloads » NS Subcommittee Dem Letter on Afghanistan Privatization, October 23, 2018.pdf
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Sunday, October 21st, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA-08) will host an information session for all high school students interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions: United States Military Academy at West Point, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT Massachusetts Maritime Academy at Buzzards Bay, MA All students and their families are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 21st, 2018 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School, 305 River Street, Braintree 02184 CONTACT: Bob Fowkes, (617) 428-2000 For those unable to attend, more information on the Service Academy nomination process is available on our website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations
09.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5036, the Financial Technology Protection Act, which was led by Congressman Ted Budd (R-NC) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA). This legislation helps address the emerging threat of terrorist and criminal actors relying on digital currencies, including Bitcoin, to fund their illicit activities. The Financial Technology Protection Act will establish a public-private sector task force that would research terrorist and illicit uses of financial technologies, including digital currencies, and develop proposals to counter such terrorist and illicit uses. It will also create a grant program to develop tools to detect terrorist and illicit uses of these currencies, and it would establish a reward for any person who provides information leading to the conviction of an individual involved with the terrorist use of digital currencies. Finally, the bill would require the government to identify how illicit actors and foreign terrorist organizations evade sanctions, finance terrorism, or launder money using these currencies, and to develop a strategy to counter such terrorist and illicit uses. The text of H.R. 5036, the Financial Technology Protection Act, is available here.
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently introduced H. Res. 993, a bipartisan resolution providing that Congress must ensure that the U.S. Postal Service is not subject to privatization. Cosponsored by 209 Members of Congress, including 40 Republicans, H. Res. 993 reflects strong opposition by both Democrats and Republicans to misguided efforts by the Trump Administration to privatize an agency that Americans consistently rank as their most trusted government institution. Most recently, in June 2018, the Administration issued government-wide reform and reorganization plan recommending the “future conversion of the Postal Service from a government agency into a privately-held corporation.” For over 240 years, the Postal Service and its dedicated workforce have performed the essential government function of “providing postal services to bind the Nation together through the personal, educational, literary, and business correspondence of the people.” In furtherance of this mission, the Postal Service and its more than 500,000 clerks, letter carriers, mail handlers and supervisors help deliver the mail to over 157 million residential and business customers six days a week nationwide. “The presumption that the American people are better served when their government outsources its core functions to private contractors has been disproven time and time again. A range of congressional investigations have revealed the harmful impact of government outsourcing on the safety and the security of the American people, as well as the responsible expenditure of taxpayer dollars,” wrote Congressman Lynch. “Whether it is the outsourcing of Iraq reconstruction and military logistics activities to Halliburton and its subsidiaries, the contracting out of management and support services at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, or waste, fraud, and abuse in hurricane recovery and relief contracting in Puerto Rico, it is more than clear that the delivery of essential government services should not be subject to privatization and is best performed by our experienced federal workforce.” “In order to understand the importance of retaining the Postal Service as a public sector entity, we need only recall the exceptional public service exhibited by our postal workforce in response to the bioterrorism that threatened the integrity of the mail network in the immediate aftermath of 9/11,” Congressman Lynch continued. “The mailing of anthrax spores claimed the lives of two postal workers, Joseph Curseen and Thomas Morris, Jr., at the Brentwood Processing and Distribution Center that now bears their name. Under the threat of continued anthrax attacks, our 700,000-strong postal workforce continued to report to work throughout the crisis and make certain that our nationwide mail and commerce would not be subject to disruption.” In addition to 169 Democrats and 40 Republicans, Lynch’s resolution has been endorsed by The National Association of Letter Carriers, the National Postal Mail Handlers Union, the National Rural Letter Carriers Association, the American Postal Workers Union, the National Association of Postal Supervisors, the United Postmasters and Managers of America, and the Coalition for a 21st Century Postal Service. Link to related article here.
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to National Security Subcommittee Chairman Steve Russell urging him to hold a bipartisan oversight hearing to examine the state of U.S. pipeline safety and security. “As evidenced by the series of hazardous natural gas explosions that occurred in Northeastern Massachusetts and Western Pennsylvania last week, the siting and operation of volatile natural gas infrastructure in proximity to residential communities poses a grave public safety threat that demands robust congressional review.” “These are not isolated incidents. According to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”), last year an estimated 650 pipeline incidents resulted in 20 fatalities and injuries to 35 individuals. In 2018, PHMSA reports that pipeline incidents have already led to at least three fatalities and injuries to 33 individuals.” The proposed hearing would supplement the efforts undertaken by Members on both sides of the aisle to safeguard the American public against the devastating impact of a pipeline-related public emergency or attack. “The vulnerability of residents and communities living in proximity to pipeline infrastructure is even more concerning considering the aging state of U.S. pipeline systems and their increased susceptibility to leaks, spills, and explosions. According to former National Transportation Safety Board chairman and current president of the National Safety Council, Deborah Hersman, approximately one-half of our 2.4 million miles of pipelines nationwide were installed prior to 1970. A 2014 pipeline safety study by USA Today reported that the largest percentage of pipeline systems still operating with deteriorating cast-iron mains “is concentrated in heavily populated areas with a higher risk of catastrophic consequences.” “Moreover, our pipeline systems have increasingly become the target of cyber and terrorist attacks. As reported by Energy and Environment News in its 2017 series on “Pipelines in Peril,” advanced cyber threats targeting U.S. pipelines have exponentially increased following a pipeline hacking spree undertaken by cyberspies linked to the Chinese military from 2011 to 2012. The theft of sensitive data from at least 23 separate U.S. pipelines constituted the sort of cyber breach that, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, “could allow successful ‘hackers’ to disrupt pipeline service and cause spills, explosions, or fires – all from remote locations.” Read the letter here. Downloads » SFL Hearing Request Letter Pipeline Security September 17 2018.pdf
08.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, recently sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to nominate qualified ambassadors to U.S. diplomatic posts that are critical to U.S. counterterrorism and national security efforts in the Middle East, South Asia, Africa, Latin America, and other regions. According to the American Foreign Service Association, nearly 40 key U.S. embassies are vacant due to a lack of nominations by President Trump. “The absence of U.S. ambassadors at our diplomatic missions in Jordan, Turkey, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia poses a serious challenge to the effectiveness of our counterterrorism operations and diplomatic efforts in the Middle East,” wrote Lynch. “This region is defined by a heightened state of conflict stemming from ongoing civil wars in Syria and Yemen, the escalating use of guerilla tactics by the remaining pockets of the Islamic State, and other destabilizing events. It is also marked by the deployment of more than 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria and an estimated 6,000 troops still deployed in Iraq. National security demands the presence of permanent U.S. diplomatic leadership in the region.” The U.S. also lacks ambassadors in Pakistan, where Al Qaeda and Islamic State affiliate activity remains an issue, and in Mexico, where bilateral cooperation on security, counter-narcotics, migration, and economic issues is critical. President Trump has also failed to nominate an ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which coordinates global economic policy, combats the threat of terrorist financing and money laundering, and is critical to curbing illicit use of offshore tax havens – an issue particularly relevant to U.S. national security given recent revelations related to the “Panama Papers.” “In furtherance of U.S. national security and our efforts to safeguard deployed U.S. military and civilian personnel worldwide,” continued Lynch, “it is imperative that you fulfill your constitutional duty and name qualified individuals to serve as U.S. ambassadors at these and other critical diplomatic posts with ambassadorial vacancies.” Read the letter here. Downloads » FINAL Letter to President Trump on Ambassadorial Vacancies August 2 2018.pdf
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy urging him to hold a bipartisan oversight hearing to examine the so-called “Quiet Skies” program. The program, which is administered by the Transportation Security Administration, reportedly tracks ordinary air travelers, including U.S. citizens, through surveillance conducted by undercover federal air marshal teams. “In stark contrast to the deployment of federal air marshals for Special Mission Coverage flights on which a known or suspected terrorist is ticketed, ‘Quiet Skies Selectees’ are not under investigation by any agency and are not listed in the U.S. Terrorist Screening Database,” wrote Lynch. “These travelers are nevertheless subjected to enhanced screening and security measures because they display travel behavior fitting ‘risk-based passenger targeting rules’ developed by the TSA and have entered the United States from a foreign location.” The proposed hearing would examine the purpose, scope, and legality of the “Quiet Skies” program and how the TSA is taking steps to safeguard the constitutional rights of U.S. citizens. In addition to privacy concerns, the procedure for removing names from the list in cases of misidentification or other error is unclear. “While I strongly support the critical mission of the Transportation Security Administration to ‘protect the nation’s transportation systems,’ the administration of a covert surveillance program that targets nearly 20,000 air travelers, including U.S. citizens, per year without probable cause must be subject to robust congressional oversight,” said Lynch. “In furtherance of our national security, a meaningful examination of the purpose, scope, and legality of this program will enable us to assess the effectiveness of the Quiet Skies program and better ensure the protection of American civil liberties.” Read the letter here. Downloads » Quiet Skies TSA Program Hearing Request Letter.pdf
07.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—On Saturday Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) called on House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy to hold a hearing to investigate reports that the U.S. Army is discharging noncitizen service members. “As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, I respectfully request that you hold an oversight hearing to examine credible reports that the Department of Defense is summarily discharging noncitizen U.S. reservists and recruits who enlisted to serve our nation in the U.S. military as part of the Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program,” wrote Lynch. On Thursday the Associated Press reported that at least 40 Army reservists and recruits who enlisted as part of the MAVNI program were discharged or had their immigration status questioned. Some of these service members said the Defense Department had labeled them as “security risks” because of relatives living abroad or uncompleted background checks by the Defense Department. “As underscored by the Department of Defense in its description of the MAVNI program, the ‘law ensures that the sacrifice of non-citizens during a time of national need is met with an opportunity for early citizenship, to recognize their contribution and sacrifice,’” wrote Lynch. “An oversight hearing to examine the reported failure of the Department of Defense to abide by its commitment to MAVNI program participants would serve to better ensure that we live up to the promises made to these brave service men and women. “It would also serve to further our national security and force protection operations going forward by strengthening our efforts to recognize the service of those noncitizens who enlist in the U.S. military when our national interest most demands it,” Lynch continued. Read the full letter here. Downloads » MAVNI Hearing Request Letter.pdf
06.01.2018	BEIRUT—On Wednesday Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) laid a wreath at the Beirut Memorial at the U.S. Embassy in Lebanon to honor the 241 American servicemembers, including 220 U.S. Marines, 18 sailors, and 3 Army soldiers, who were killed in the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings. The memorial honors American servicemembers and diplomats who have lost their lives while serving in Lebanon. “In the midst of violence and civil war, brave American servicemembers and diplomats came to Lebanon to promote peace. We still mourn our brothers and sisters and sons and daughters who did not return home,” said Lynch. “It was an honor to stand alongside the men and women who are currently serving in Lebanon, including the U.S. Marine detachment from the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, to remember those who were taken from us as they sought peace here and throughout the Middle East.” The Beirut barracks bombings in 1983 were the deadliest single-day attack on U.S. Marines since the Battle of Iwo Jima during World War II. Earlier that year, 63 people were killed in an attack on the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, and in 1984, 24 people were killed in an attack on the U.S. Embassy annex in Aukar. The Beirut Memorial honors hundreds of American military, intelligence, and diplomatic personnel killed in these and other incidents in Lebanon. U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon Elizabeth Richard, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), and the U.S. Marine Corps contingent stationed at the U.S. Embassy also participated in the wreath-laying ceremony at the Beirut Memorial. Lynch’s visit to the memorial came during a week-long congressional delegation to the Middle East that included trips to Bahrain, Jordan, Egypt, and the new U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem.
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement on the tragic school shooting in Texas: “My prayers are with the victims of the tragedy in Santa Fe, Texas, their families, and the courageous first responders. It is outrageous that there has been another school shooting in America with absolutely no effort from congressional leadership to pass any gun safety measures. Democrats have proposed numerous common-sense gun safety bills that would help make our children safer, but Republican leadership refuses to bring these bills to the House floor for a vote. Congressional leadership needs to allow us to vote and protect our kids.”
05.10.2018	Washington, D.C. (May 10, 2018)—Today, all of the Democratic Members of the Subcommittee on National Security within the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform sent a letter urging Defense Secretary James Mattis to immediately reverse the Trump Administration’s recent decision to redact key data on U.S. personnel strength from the Defense Department’s quarterly public reports. The Democrats signing the letter are Subcommittee Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch, Rep. Peter Welch, Rep. Mark DeSaulnier, Rep. Jimmy Gomez, and ex-officio member Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the full Committee. “[W]e are writing to express our strong objection to the Trump Administration’s recent decision to redact U.S. troop numbers for Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan from the Defense Department’s quarterly public reports on U.S. personnel strength,” the Members wrote. “This data was publicly available to Congress and the American people throughout the Bush and Obama Administrations and should continue to be so under the Trump Administration, as it has facilitated the development of policies and measures designed to maximize the protection of U.S. Forces deployed overseas. In the interest of continued force protection, transparency, and accountability relating to our military presence in key combat zones, we respectfully request that you immediately reverse this policy.” According to press accounts, the Defense Manpower Data Center recently “stripped” total U.S. troop numbers for Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan from its December quarterly report on the number of active duty, reserve, National Guard, and civilian personnel assigned in the United States and overseas. In place of this data, the Defense Department left “blank spaces” and inserted a proviso indicating that questions regarding this data are “deferred to OSD [the Office of the Secretary of Defense] Public Affairs/Joint Chiefs of Staff.” The Members noted in today’s letter that this data has been publicly available for more than a decade and provides Congress and the American people with critical information pertaining to Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, Operation Inherent Resolve, and other missions. “An accurate and transparent accounting of deployed U.S. troops has enabled Congress to make better-informed decisions regarding the equipment and personnel necessary to maximize U.S. force protection in combat zones,” the Members wrote. “It has also underscored whether our military strategies in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, and other areas are achieving their desired results.” A report on U.S. troop figures issued in November highlighted significant discrepancies between the actual number of troops on the ground in Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan and the much lower, artificial “force management levels” publicly acknowledged by the Pentagon. As a result, the Defense Department undertook a policy review to ensure greater accuracy in reporting U.S. troop deployment figures. “As Secretary of Defense, you have underscored your commitment ‘to developing a more transparent accounting of our troops in the field,’” the Members wrote. “We believe that an immediate reversal of the Trump Administration’s decision to redact key data on U.S. personnel strength would help fulfill your commitment and greatly enhance transparency and accountability in this area.” Click here to read today’s letter.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) today announced that Mya Tomlinson of Norwood, Mass. has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition in the Eighth Congressional District of Massachusetts. The annual competition is open to all high school students across the country. The winning piece of artwork from each Congressional District will be displayed in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork that included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings, and collages, among other mediums. The judges selected a piece entitled “American Dream” by Mya Tomlinson, a student at Norwood High School. Mya’s piece was created using color pencil and markers and will be flown to Washington, D.C. to be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Mya is an incredibly powerful and talented artist, and I congratulate her on winning this year’s Art Competition. Mya told us that her piece, which includes vivid drawings of important African-American leaders in our nation’s history, including Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, Maya Angelou, and President Barack Obama, depicts her patriotism and reflects the importance of civil rights,” said Congressman Lynch. “Thank you to all the students who submitted artwork this year. It was wonderful to see the talent and dedication of so many artists across the Eighth Congressional District.”
05.09.2018	Washington, D.C. (May 9, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter requesting that Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy issue a subpoena to compel the Department of Justice (DOJ) to produce documents it is withholding relating to the improper classification of handwritten notes taken by top Justice Department official Dana Boente memorializing his conversation with then-FBI Director James Comey about President Donald Trump. “It is unclear who at the Department of Justice tried to improperly classify these notes, but it is an abuse of the classification system to try to classify information merely to conceal information from the American people for political reasons, and the Department of Justice is obstructing our investigation into this abuse by withholding these documents from Congress,” they wrote. “Our Committee has jurisdiction over federal records and has previously investigated abuses of the classification system to improperly conceal information from the American people,” the Ranking Members added. “As you once stated on national television during the Benghazi investigation: ‘[T]here is an over classification to protect people’s reputations and careers. And that is not a legitimate reason to classify a document, just because you are worried that it may hurt feelings or impact your career’.” On April 10, 2018, Rachel Maddow revealed that MSBNC had obtained a copy of Mr. Boente’s handwritten notes documenting his conversation with Director Comey. These notes are contemporaneous evidence corroborating a conversation in which Director Comey conveyed to Mr. Boente that President Trump asked Director Comey to lift the “cloud” of the Russia investigation and “to get out” that the President was not under criminal investigation. She also obtained a letter from the FBI showing that the Department of Justice improperly classified Mr. Boente’s notes—without his consultation and without adequate justification. On April 11, 2018, the Ranking Members wrote to the Justice Department requesting that it produce documents relating to this matter by April 26, 2018. The Department has not respond to that letter and has not produced any of the requested documents. The Ranking Members are asking Gowdy to subpoena all documents and communications from within the Justice Department, with outside officials, and others relating to efforts to designate as CLASSIFIED any information contained within the handwritten notes of Mr. Boente, as well as communications and documents sufficient to show which officials at DOJ were involved in the decision. Click here to read today’s letter.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on National Security, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the JCPOA: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on Iran’s nuclear program puts the world at greater risk of nuclear proliferation and seriously damages U.S. standing in the world. One of the central benefits of the JCPOA is to place International Atomic Energy Agency monitors inside former nuclear research and development centers within Iran. The participation of IAEA inspectors during the dismantling and decommissioning process at the Fordow and Natanz fuel enrichment facilities, as well as the disassembly of the heavy water reactor at Arak, virtually froze the ability of Iran to threaten the region and the world with nuclear conflict. It is noteworthy that according to the IAEA, Iran has maintained full compliance with the JCPOA since its inception. “President Trump’s repudiation of the agreement ostensibly allows Iran to resume nuclear weapons development. Meanwhile, President Trump’s threat of U.S. sanctions against Iran has been greatly diminished by the fact that the U.K., France, Germany, China, and Russia appear to be unwilling to support similar sanctions. They will continue to trade with Iran as long as they remain in compliance with the JCPOA. “President Trump’s action was extremely ill-advised without coordinating with our allies. This decision strengthens the hardliners in Iran, weakens the United States’ relationship with longtime democratic allies, and ultimately makes the world a more dangerous place.”
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. (April 17, 2018)—Today, Rep. Stephen F. Lynch and Rep. Maxine Waters, the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to Rep. Jeb Hensarling, Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Rep. Steve Pearce, Chairman of the Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee, requesting the Committee and Subcommittee hold hearings to examine an alleged quid pro quo arrangement between Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and banker Stephen Calk. “We are writing to respectfully request that our Committee holds both Full Committee and Terrorism and Illicit Financing Subcommittee hearings to examine issues relating to disturbing reports that Stephen Calk, the CEO of Federal Savings Bank in Chicago, made loans of up to $16 million to President Donald Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, in exchange for promises to name him Secretary of the Army,” wrote Reps. Lynch and Waters. According to the Wall Street Journal, Calk’s company loaned Manafort millions “as part of a quid pro quo arrangement to secure Mr. Calk a job in Mr. Trump’s administration.” In response to a request for information from Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Lynch, who serves as the Ranking Member of the National Security Subcommittee, the Department of Defense confirmed that Calk called Army administrative personnel in the days following Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 presidential election to inquire about the confirmation process for presidential appointees. “Although Mr. Calk ultimately was not given a position with the Department, reports that he was being considered for a high-level and highly sensitive national security position within the Trump Administration as part of a quid pro quo with Mr. Manafort raise serious concerns that, completely apart from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, warrant scrutiny by our Committee,” wrote the members. Reps. Lynch and Waters are requesting that Calk testify before the Committee and Subcommittee. Click here to read today’s letter. Downloads » LynchFinancialServicesHearingRequestCalk4-17-18.pdf
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 12, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter requesting documents from Stephen Calk—the banker who allegedly loaned Paul Manafort $16 million in exchange for promises to name him to a top position within the Trump Administration. Cummings and Lynch first wrote to the Department of Defense in February seeking documents regarding troubling press reports that Manafort offered Calk a top position in exchange for the loans. In response, the Defense Department provided two key facts: First, DOD reports that, eight days after the President’s election, the Army’s Chief of Staff “had the opportunity to engage Mr. Calk on November 16, 2016, when he provided remarks at a Business Executives for National Security (BENS) luncheon in Chicago.” Second, DOD reports that “Army administrative personnel recall receiving a telephone call from Mr. Calk sometime in November of 2016 regarding the confirmation process in general.” “This new information provided by DOD appears to confirm at least part of the underlying allegation, which is that you were actively inquiring with the Pentagon within days of the presidential election about a high-level position that would have required the advice and consent of the Senate,” Cummings and Lynch wrote to Calk. “DOD’s letter does not explain why you were inquiring about the confirmation process,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. “DOD’s response was also limited in that it apparently focused only on your communications with the Department of the Army rather than all DOD elements. The letter states that ‘the Army was not involved in any personnel decisions regarding Mr. Calk, and did not engage in any communications regarding Mr. Calk with Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, or other individuals affiliated with President Trump's campaign.’” “For these reasons, we now request information directly from you about why you were seeking that information and whether your actions were related to a quid pro quo with President Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort,” the Members concluded. The members requested documents relating to communications between Calk and any member of President Trump’s campaign, the Trump Transition Team, and the Department of Defense, and all loans discussed, applied for, reviewed, or granted to Mr. Manafort by The Federal Savings Bank. Click here to read today’s letter.
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 12, 2018)—Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein requesting documents relating to a report that someone at the Department of Justice (DOJ) attempted to improperly classify a key document relating to the Russia investigation. On Tuesday, Rachel Maddow revealed that MSNBC has obtained handwritten notes taken on March 30, 2017, by Dana Boente, who served in several top positions at the Department of Justice, memorializing a telephone conversation he had that day with FBI Director James Comey. These notes relate to a troubling conversation Director Comey had with President Donald Trump, who urged him to lift the “cloud” of the Russia investigation and “to get out” that the President was not under criminal investigation. “Although President Trump has called Director Comey a liar, these contemporaneous notes offer direct and potent corroboration of Director Comey’s testimony before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on June 8, 2017, that President Trump asked him to ‘lift the cloud’ of the Russia investigation and ‘to get it out’ that the President was not under investigation,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. Rachel Maddow also obtained a letter sent to Mr. Boente on January 17, 2018, from E.W. Priestap, the Assistant Director of the Counterintelligence Division of the FBI, indicating that someone at the Department of Justice appears to have improperly tried to classify Mr. Boente’s notes—without ever consulting him—despite the fact that there was no classified information contained within them. The letter states: “(U) This letter serves as confirmation under my authority as a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Original Classification Authority (OCA) that your handwritten notes derived from your March 30, 2017 conversation with former FBI Director James Comey are UNCLASSIFIED. “(U) Understanding that your notes were marked as TOP SECRET by an employee of the Department of Justice without your consultation, this letter memorializes a duly authorized OCA finding that the contents of your notes are not TOP SECRET (or classified at all).” “It is unclear why anyone at the Department of Justice improperly sought to classify these notes,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. “However, if these reports are accurate, it appears possible that someone at the Department of Justice may have attempted to prevent the public release of these notes by misusing the classification process, but that career officials at the FBI intervened to reject this effort.” Under Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, officials may not abuse the classification process to conceal information that may be incriminating: “In no case shall information be classified, continue to be maintained as classified, or fail to be declassified in order to: (1) conceal violations of law, inefficiency, or administrative error; (2) prevent embarrassment to a person, organization, or agency; (3) restrain competition; or (4) prevent or delay the release of information that does not require protection in the interest of national security.” Click here to read the letter.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. There will also be a reception in Washington, D.C., for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. The annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions and all entries must be received by Monday, April 30, 2018. A panel of local art experts will review all submitted artwork and select the top ten submissions. The panel will then vote on the winning submission. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Quincy, or Brockton office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. For more information on the competition, please contact the office at (617) 428-2000 or visit the website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. “The arts are tremendously important to the overall education of Massachusetts students, and visual art is a passion for many high school students in the 8th Congressional District,” said Congressman Lynch. “Over the last year, visitors to the U.S. Capitol have had the chance to see ‘My Pursuit,’ a self-portrait in ink, acrylic and sand by last year’s Congressional Art Competition winner, Seoyeon Kim, a junior from CATS Academy Boston located in Braintree. I look forward to seeing this year’s original artwork submissions from students across the 8th Congressional District, and I encourage all to apply.” Downloads » 2018 Congressional Art Competition Student Release Form» 2018 Congressional Art Competition Rules for Students and Teachers
03.15.2018	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 15, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing grave concerns about the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan under the strategy President Trump announced last summer, as well as the alarming escalation of efforts by the Trump Administration to retroactively classify information relating to the war. “The Trump Administration’s increased secrecy about the 16-year war in Afghanistan—America’s longest war that has cost 2,400 lives and nearly a trillion dollars—comes as President Trump’s new strategy for Afghanistan appears to be foundering badly,” the Ranking Members wrote. On August 21, 2017, President Trump announced his new strategy for Afghanistan after frequently touting his broad military acumen during the campaign, stating for example: “There’s nobody bigger or better at the military than I am.” “Unfortunately, President Trump’s new strategy for Afghanistan does not appear to be improving conditions on the ground,” the Ranking Members wrote. “To the contrary, in January, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani warned about the increasingly dire conditions across the country and in the capital, Kabul.” BBC also reported in January that “About 15 million people—half the population—are living in areas that are either controlled by the Taliban or where the Taliban are openly present and regularly mount attacks,” and Taliban fighters “are now openly active in 70% of Afghanistan.” In addition, in just over two weeks in January, three strikes in Kabul killed 128 people. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain also raised concerns about President Trump’s strategy, stating, “this committee, and the Congress more broadly, still does not know many of the crucial details of this strategy. This is totally unacceptable. I repeat, this is totally unacceptable.” Cummings and Lynch also expressed concern that the Trump Administration is retroactively classifying information about our nation’s military efforts in Afghanistan. “Now, more than six months after President Trump announced his new strategy in Afghanistan, we are gravely concerned that the Administration is retroactively classifying information that used to be available to the American people,” they wrote. “We believe it is completely inappropriate to abuse our nation’s classification system to conceal the policy failures of the Trump Administration.” The Ranking Members first wrote to President Trump about these retroactive classifications on November 17, 2017, but they received no response. Instead, the Pentagon subsequently classified additional categories of information that the Obama Administration routinely released to the public, including the actual and authorized strength figures for the Afghan security forces and the percentage of trained and untrained personnel. “Instead of reversing this retroactive classification policy, the Trump Administration has now doubled-down to classify even more information about the war in Afghanistan.” Cummings and Lynch requested that Mattis provide documents and information on these matters by March 28, 2018. Click here to read today’s letter.
03.06.2018	Washington, D.C. (March 6, 2018) – Today Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, urging him to combat foreign disinformation and propaganda campaigns using funds that were allocated to the State Department for that purpose. In 2016, the State Department’s Global Engagement Center (GEC) was allocated $120 million over two years to counter foreign efforts to threaten U.S. national security and interfere in U.S. elections. The Center, however, has yet to spend any of the allocated funds. “In order to combat Russian and other foreign interference in future U.S. elections, Congress in December of 2016 expanded the mission and mandate of the Global Engagement Center (GEC) within the State Department to ‘counter foreign state and non-state propaganda and disinformation efforts’ that threaten our national security as well as the national security interests of U.S. allies and partners,” wrote Congressman Lynch. “Regrettably, the State Department has failed to maximize its use of these critical resources.” According to a recent report by The New York Times, the State Department “has yet to spend any of the $120 million it has been allocated since late 2016 to counter foreign efforts to meddle in elections or sow distrust in democracy” and “not one of the 23 analysts working in the department’s Global Engagement Center – which has been tasked with countering Moscow’s disinformation campaign – speaks Russian.” This is despite assessments by the U.S. intelligence community that Russian President Vladimir Putin “ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election” and that “Moscow will apply lessons learned from its Putin-ordered campaign aimed at the US presidential election to future influence efforts worldwide.” Efforts to meddle in U.S. elections were also detailed in a February 16, 2018 federal indictment against 13 Russian nationals and three Russian organizations. The indictment detailed a widespread campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election that included identity theft, bank and wire fraud, and illegal political advertisement purchases. “During a February 6, 2018 interview with Fox News, you cautioned that Russia is already undertaking attempts to interfere in the upcoming 2018 U.S. federal elections,” Congressman Lynch wrote to Secretary Tillerson. “You also stated, ‘I don’t know that I would say we are better prepared, because the Russians will adapt as well.’ The full use of the authority and resources at the disposal of the State Department for the purpose of countering foreign interference in our elections would significantly enhance our ability to address this continuing national security threat.” Click here to read the letter.
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, co-chair of the Task Force on Anti-Terrorism & Proliferation Financing, introduced H.R. 5101, the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act. The bipartisan bill would help U.S. authorities combat terrorist financing and foreign government corruption by establishing a rewards program for whistleblowers. Corrupt foreign officials often use the United States and the international financial system to hide their stolen assets and the proceeds of corruption. As these assets are disguised and moved through financial institutions, bad actors can funnel these funds to terrorist organizations around the world. The rewards program established by the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act would incentivize individuals to notify the U.S. government of assets in U.S. financial institutions that are linked to foreign corruption, allowing authorities to recover and return these assets and prevent further enabling of foreign corruption and terrorist financing. “The United States must intensify the fight against foreign government corruption and the money laundering that allows terrorist organizations to thrive,” said Congressman Lynch. “Foreign governments that are weakened by corrupt leaders do not have the financial or legal resources to combat terrorist financing, and the U.S. government should be doing everything we can to stop our financial institutions from unwittingly aiding corrupt officials and terrorist organizations.” The U.S. government already has a number of programs that reward individuals for information that leads to the identification and conviction of criminals, however this would be the first program designed to help recover stolen assets linked to foreign government corruption. According to the World Bank and United Nations’ Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (StAR), between $20 and $40 billion is lost annually in developing countries due to corruption. In the last 15 years, only about $5 billion of that has been returned to the country where it originated. “Foreign corruption is a major economic and national security threat to the United States. Corruption undermines the rule of law, provides the lifeblood of authoritarian regimes and enables transnational organized crime to flourish,” said Clark Gascoigne, Deputy Director at the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition. “It diverts precious resources away from those who most need them, and fosters disillusionment with government—sometimes leading to the rise of terrorist networks. The Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act is a sensible tool to safeguard American citizens and businesses from the scourge of corruption.” The bipartisan Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act is co-sponsored by Representatives Keith Rothfus (R-PA), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Ted Budd (R-NC), and Michael Capuano (D-MA). Congressman Lynch is the Ranking Member of the House National Security Subcommittee, co-chair of the Task Force on Anti-Terrorism & Proliferation Financing, and a member of the House Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee. The text of H.R. 5101, the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act, is available here.
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 27, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis requesting information about “extremely troubling” press reports suggesting that a banker named Stephen Calk may have made loans of up to $16 million to President Donald Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, in exchange for alleged promises to name him Secretary of the Army. “[R]eports that Mr. Calk was being considered for a high-level and highly sensitive national security position within the Trump Administration as part of a quid pro quo with Mr. Manafort raise serious concerns that, completely apart from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, warrant scrutiny by Congress,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. According to numerous press accounts, the bank that Mr. Calk heads, Federal Savings Bank, provided up to $16 million in loans to Mr. Manafort “as part of a quid pro quo arrangement to secure Mr. Calk a job in Mr. Trump’s administration.” According to these reports, between late 2016 and early 2017, “Mr. Calk was placing calls to the Pentagon and specifically to Army headquarters, asking for briefings to obtain information and prepare himself for a possible job.” In addition, “Mr. Calk’s overtures raised questions among military leaders as to how to respond.” The Ranking Members asked the Defense Department to provide a briefing and produce documents by March 13, 2018, including all communications with Calk, all requests for information from Calk, communications between the Department and individuals associated with President Trump’s campaign, and any actions considered or taken by the Pentagon. Click here to read today’s letter.
02.21.2018	Washington, DC (Feb. 21, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Gerald E. Connolly, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Government Operations, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter requesting that Chairman Trey Gowdy issue a subpoena to compel U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to produce documents it has been withholding for months regarding extremely disturbing allegations of sexual harassment and assault by CBP employees. “We believe our Committee has a Constitutional obligation and a moral duty to investigate these heinous allegations of sexual assault against federal employees,” the Ranking Members wrote. On May 15, 2017, Cummings, Connolly, and Lynch—along with Chairman Mark Meadows of the Subcommittee on Government Operations and Chairman Ron DeSantis of the Subcommittee on National Security—sent a joint letter requesting that CBP produce seven categories of documents and information, including all documents regarding allegations of sexual harassment and assault for the past several years, the personnel files for employees accused of sexual harassment and abuse, and all documents relating to CBP’s efforts to investigate these allegations. To date, CBP has produced documents from only one category—policy documents—and has not produced any other documents requested by the Members. According to multiple whistleblowers, CBP officers at Newark Liberty International Airport: subjected fellow employees to sexual harassment and “terrorizing” sexual abuse; took fellow employees to a room used for monitoring security camera feeds, threw them down, and taped them to a conference table known as the “rape table”; subjected fellow employees to sexual assaults, which one victim described as follows: “they grab you like a gang, and they forcibly throw you on the table and one officer ended up mounting me and pretty much riding me like a horse”; chased one fellow employee, stated that she deserved “to be put on the rape table,” and held her down while another taped her to a chair; threatened a fellow employee with a firearm, entering the victim’s office and making her afraid for her life and safety; and intimidated fellow employees to prevent them from making official complaints, and took no action when one victim did file an official complaint. The Ranking Members noted that Gowdy has declined select sexual assault investigations in the past, claiming that he would not investigate during ongoing criminal investigations, but they also noted that on February 8, 2018, the Committee sent multiple bipartisan letters requesting documents about sexual assault allegations associated with USA Gymnastics despite an ongoing criminal investigation. They also noted many other instances under both Republican and Democratic Chairmen when Congress has investigated matters while there were ongoing criminal investigations, including Gowdy’s own investigation as the Chairman of the Select Committee on Benghazi. “In this case, our goal should not be to determine the extent of criminal activity, which is properly left to investigators and prosecutors, but to examine whether changes need to be made to agency regulations or federal laws to prevent anything like this alleged sexual abuse and harassment from ever occurring again,” the Ranking Members wrote. “Just as with our investigation of sexual abuse in gymnastics, we can conduct this investigation without negatively affecting any ongoing criminal investigation.” Click here to read today’s letter.
11.17.2017	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 17, 2017)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to President Donald J. Trump requesting an immediate reversal of the policy to classify previously unclassified information relating to Afghanistan. “We’re writing about a recent decision by the U.S. Department of Defense to classify and discontinue public reporting of information essential to conducting oversight of U.S. spending in Afghanistan, and to request an immediate reversal of this policy,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. “This information relates to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF), has been unclassified for years, and was previously published publicly in quarterly reports by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR).” SIGAR was notified recently by DOD of its plan to begin classifying information SIGAR used previously in its role of evaluating waste, fraud, and abuse in U.S. programs in Afghanistan. The report also stated that the sudden classification of ANDSF data would “hinder” SIGAR’s ability to report progress in Afghanistan. The U.S. military sought to classify information on ANDSF capabilities in 2015, but they quickly reversed course after SIGAR released its quarterly report. “The safety and security of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan is of the highest importance,” Cummings and Lynch wrote. “However, inappropriately classifying information undermines the ability of Congress to conduct meaningful oversight and restricts the ability of the American people to know how the U.S. government is spending billions of their tax dollars.” Click here to read today’s letter.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) introduced H.R. 4381, the Natural Gas Pipeline Public Health Protection Act of 2017, which would suspend construction and expansion of natural gas facilities in communities with unsafe air pollutant levels. The Act would require the enforcement of public health and environmental standards under the Clean Air Act, providing further protections for communities located near natural gas facilities. In communities where certified independent air quality testing has revealed violations of the Clean Air Act, the Natural Gas Pipeline Public Health Protection Act would suspend construction and expansion of natural gas facilities that have been issued certificates of public convenience and necessity by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) within the two years prior to the law’s enactment. “There are communities across the country, including in the district that I represent, that are already exposed to toxic levels of air pollutants and will be at increased risk of exposure once nearby natural gas facilities are built or expanded. This is not complicated: if the air quality in a community already violates federal Clean Air Act standards, we should not be adding toxins to the air in that community,” said Congressman Lynch. This is just the latest step Congressman Lynch has taken to protect communities from the public health, safety and environmental risks caused by natural gas facilities. In July, Congressman Lynch met with Dr. Curtis Nordgaard to conduct a site visit near the Weymouth Compressor Station in Massachusetts. Dr. Nordgaard’s certified independent testing showed that the area surrounding the site of the proposed natural gas compressor station tested at unsafe levels of hazardous pollutants, such as benzene and formaldehyde. Also in July, during consideration of the Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act, Congressman Lynch offered several amendments that aimed to improve the environmental, safety and public health impacts of natural gas pipelines and facilities. One of the proposed amendments, which would improve pipeline security by requiring FERC to ensure compliance with TSA security guidance and best practices on pipeline security, was agreed to. The bill passed in the House in July 2017 and has been referred to committee in the Senate.
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Massachusetts) introduced H.R. 3938, the Air Traffic Noise and Pollution Expert Consensus Act of 2017. The Act addresses increasing community concerns about airplane noise and pollution by requiring the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to sponsor an Expert Consensus Report issued by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine on the health effects of airplanes flying over residential areas. Expert Consensus Reports produced by the National Academies examine scientific and technological issues of national importance. The bill is co-sponsored by 13 members of Congress, including the co-chairs of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus, Congressman Tom Suozzi (D-New York) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Vice Chair Congressman Mike Quigley (D-Illinois). Federal and regional transportation authorities have received an increased number of complaints around airplane noise as new flight paths have been implemented as part of the FAA’s “Next Generation Air Transportation System.” The program – often referred to as “NextGen” – shifted flight paths in and out of airports, causing increased airplane activity over certain residential areas. In Massachusetts alone, MASSPORT received nearly 30,000 complaints about aviation-related noise from across 78 communities, including Hull, Hingham, Milton, and Boston, in the first half of 2017. That nearly doubled the number of complaints received during the same time period in 2016 and was more than four times the number received in the first half of 2015. “There is a clear demand from our constituents that we look into the impacts of new flight paths across the country,” said Congressman Lynch. “It is imperative that we understand and remedy any health effects caused by aircraft flying over residential areas, and the onus is on the FAA to produce this information.” Congressman Lynch’s Air Traffic Noise and Pollution Expert Consensus Act of 2017 would make available the best scientific information on the health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution by requiring the FAA to sponsor an Expert Consensus Report from the Division of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Under the bill, the National Academies would be required to convene a committee of health and environmental science experts within 30 days. The committee would examine the health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution and issue the Expert Consensus Report with their findings. The report would be submitted to the FAA Administrator, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and relevant Congressional Committees, including the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Cosponsors of the bill include: Congressman Tom Suozzi (D-New York), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Congressman Mike Quigley (D-Illinois), Congressman Jared Polis (D-Colorado), Congressman Ro Khanna (D-California), Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-Arizona), Congressman Jamie Raskin (D-Maryland), Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-New York), Congressman Jimmy Panetta (D-California), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-California), Congressman Scott Peters (D-California), Congressman Alan Lowenthal (D-California), and Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Illinois).
09.29.2017	On September 27, 2017, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch sent the following letter to President Trump: September 27, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Mr. President: The damage wrought by Hurricanes Irma and Maria on Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the greater Caribbean has been devastating. According to numerous media reports, hospitals in Puerto Rico have lost electricity, with many also losing their backup generators. In the U.S. Virgin Islands, Governor, Kenneth Mapp estimates that rebuilding the electrical grid could cost an estimated $200 million. The island of Barbuda had to be entirely evacuated, and Dutch St. Martin sustained damage to 90 percent of its buildings from Hurricane Irma, according to the United Nations. These and the other islands in the Caribbean will need both immediate and the long-term assistance in order to survive the immediate aftermath, and be able to rebuild. The deployment of the USNS Comfort is a welcome development, and it is my hope that this will be followed by the swift deployment of additional resources from within FEMA, DOD and USAID to provide the assistance and expertise that the islands need. For the longer term, the region will require a significant and sustained level of investment, given the level of the damage sustained. Given the complexity of this process of rebuilding in both the U.S. territories and in other islands of the Caribbean, I urge you to appoint as soon as possible a Special Coordinator for Caribbean Storm Relief and Reconstruction. It is necessary to have one point person who is fully responsible and accountable for ensuring the effective coordination and dispersal of immediate and long-term assistance to Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and to the other nations in the Caribbean. Thank you and I look forward to working toward an effective response to this humanitarian crisis. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Sunday, October 22, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will host an information session for all high school students in the Eighth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions: United States Military Academy at West Point, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT Massachusetts Maritime Academy at Buzzards Bay, MA All students and their families from the Eighth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 22, 2017 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School, 305 River Street, Braintree 02184 CONTACT: Bob Fowkes, (617) 428-2000 For those unable to attend, more information on the Service Academy nomination process is available on our website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Region I awarded a total of $92,562 in grant funding for the Walpole Fire Department. This grant will support firefighting training for emergency personnel. Funded by the United States Congress, the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, as well as support firefighter health and safety programs and new fire apparatus. “Firefighting is becoming more complicated every day, and our firefighters need to be trained to meet the demands of their profession”, said Congressman Stephen Lynch. “This grant will provide funding for the Walpole Fire Department to train its firefighters more thoroughly, and keep safe the families in Walpole. This grant is the result of the collective effort of Chief Timothy Bailey, Jr. and the Walpole Fire Department.” The goal of AFG is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters by providing critical resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognizes standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience. More information on the AFG, Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER), and Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S) grant programs is available here.
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Region I awarded a total of $70,477 in grant funding for the East Bridgewater Fire Department. This grant will support two power stretchers and ambulance power load systems for emergency personnel. Funded by the United States Congress, the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, as well as support firefighter health and safety programs and new fire apparatus. “Firefighters are at risk every day, and they require the latest technology to allow them to work more efficiently. This grant will enable the East Bridgewater Fire Department to purchase two Power Stretchers and two Ambulance Power Load devices.” Firefighters will be able decrease the time it takes to get victims to hospitals for treatment, said Congressman Stephen Lynch. “Thank you to Chief Timothy Harhen and the East Bridgewater Fire Department for securing this grant.” The goal of AFG is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters by providing critical resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognizes standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience. More information on the AFG, Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER), and Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S) grant programs is available here.
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Region I awarded a total of $241,728 in grant funding for the Canton Fire Department. This grant will support fire breathing apparatus equipment for emergency personnel. Funded by the United States Congress, the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, as well as support firefighter health and safety programs and new fire apparatus. "Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need proper equipment to do their jobs. This grant will allow the Canton Fire Department to purchase new Firefighter Breathing Apparatus" said Congressman Lynch. "In addition, the federal funding for the Canton Fire Department will provide necessary tools to keep Canton’s families and firefighters safe. This grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Charles Doody and the entire Canton Fire Department." Congressman Lynch has been working closely with the Town of Canton on their application for federal fire grant funding. The goal of AFG is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters by providing critical resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognizes standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience. More information on the AFG, Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER), and Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S) grant programs is available here.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s amendment to strengthen the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance (OTA) was accepted to H.R. 3354 - Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018. As the co-chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Anti-Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, Congressman Lynch (D-Boston) has been a strong advocate of the OTA’s work to help the finance ministries and central banks of developing and transitioning countries safeguard their financial sectors against the risks of exploitation by terrorist financiers and criminal enterprises. Specifically, Congressman Lynch’s amendment increases funding for the OTA by $4,545,000 that will be used to combat terrorist financing and financial crimes. “Terrorist groups around the globe, including ISIS, Al-Qaeda, and Boko Haram, are consistently looking for new ways to fund their efforts. Weak financial institutions in the developing world are breeding grounds for corruption and are prime targets for exploitation by terrorist financiers. The United States must continue its work to promote robust and effective technical assistance to developing nations to investigate and prosecute terrorist financiers and prevent legitimate financial institutions from being abused by terrorist organizations for illicit activity,” said Congressman Lynch. “As threats of terrorism increase worldwide, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance faces a greater demand for its services. The additional $4,545,000 included in my amendment will help to improve both our national security and the national security of our allies abroad.” Congressman Lynch has long advocated for strengthening the national anti-terrorist financing strategy. In addition to currently serving as the Ranking Member of the National Security Subcommittee, Congressman Lynch served as the lead Democrat on the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing in the 114th Congress. Congressman Lynch also founded the bipartisan Task Force on Anti-Terrorism and Proliferation Financing during the 109th Congress and continues to serve as the Democratic Chairman. Downloads » Text of Amendment to H.R. 3354
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the Ranking Member of the National Security Subcommittee and a member of the Financial Services Committee’s Terrorism and Illicit Financing Subcommittee, introduced H.R. 3544, the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017. Despite statutory requirements for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to record ownership history and lien information on civil aircraft, some aircraft owners shield their identity by registering aircraft with a trustee – a legal practice, but one that can be vulnerable to abuse, particularly when the FAA does not have information on the trustor, beneficiary, or those using the aircraft. Companies with anonymous or opaque structures can hide beneficial ownership information to mask aircraft ownership posing risks to national security and public safety. Congressman Lynch’s bipartisan Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017 requires the disclosure of beneficial ownership information for aircraft registration to ensure that the FAA has a more complete picture on who owns aircraft prior to approving a certificate of registration in the United States. H.R. 3544 is cosponsored by Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-New York) and Congressman Peter King (R-New York). A recent report from the Department of Transportation’s Office of Inspector General cited examples of illicit activity tied to aircraft registered on behalf of foreign trustors, underscoring the need for strong beneficial ownership legislation to address dangerous consequences of lapses in beneficial ownership reporting. For example, a U.S. bank, serving as an aircraft trustee, discovered that a U.S. Government-designated terrorist organization financially backed their trustor, a Lebanese politician. In addition, an FAA inspector found a Boeing 737 aircraft operated contrary to U.S. regulations as its foreign trustor leased the aircraft, possibly for illegal revenue, to a rental service basing the plane in the United Arab Emirates. The Office of Inspector General also highlighted that the President of a foreign oil corporation, an aircraft trustor, sold a large share of his company to a company owned by the Government of China. “Without beneficial ownership information for aircraft registration, the FAA may be registering aircraft that do not meet its own requirements. There are serious national security risks when the FAA approves an aircraft registration, but does not have all the information, particularly if an aircraft is owned by a shell corporation or a foreign entity. We need increased transparency in aircraft registration, as well as improved accountability from the FAA, to prevent fraud, corruption, or illicit activity by bad actors. The Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017 will help mitigate fraud and reveal who actually owns and funds the trusts tied to aircraft registered here in the United States,” said Congressman Lynch. In particular, H.R. 3544, requires that the beneficial ownership of an aircraft is identified prior to approval of a certificate of aircraft registration by the FAA. In the case of an aircraft owned or controlled by more than one entity, the legislation requires identification of the relationship between entities. In addition, in the case of a trust or association, the legislation calls for the chain of control including the owner, trustee, and beneficiary. The legislation defines a beneficial owner as “each natural person, who directly or indirectly, exercises control over the covered entity through ownership interests, voting rights, agreements, or otherwise; or has an interest in or receives substantial economic benefits from the assets of the covered entity.” H.R. 3544, the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017, is supported by Global Witness, the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, and Global Financial Integrity. “Purchasing luxury items like aircraft and other high-end vehicles, using anonymous companies, is a time-tested strategy used by the corrupt and the criminal to move and launder their ill-gotten gains without being detected,” said Mark Hays, Anti-Money Laundering Campaign Director for Global Witness. “While ultimately all companies formed in the U.S. should disclose their real owners to help deter crime and corruption across the board, legislation such as this that shines a light on sectors prone to significant risk can help fill in critical gaps in transparency in the meantime.” Earlier this month, Congressman Lynch sent a letter along with Congressman Peter King to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting that the GAO’s Forensic Audits and Investigative Service examine risks within the FAA aircraft registration program. This examination would include how the FAA tracks aircraft registrant information in order to conduct oversight, how anonymous ownership can circumvent existing registration requirements, as well as the extent to which the FAA informs its law enforcement and national security partners about information regarding opaque ownership structures among its aircraft registration data. The text of H.R. 3544, the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017, is available here. Downloads » Text of H.R. 3544, the Aircraft Ownership Transparency Act of 2017» Letter to the Government Accountability Office
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3364, the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act, which includes two bills which were first introduced by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston). The sanctions package incorporated a number of bipartisan measures developed in the 114th Congress by the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. In addition to currently serving as the Ranking Member of the National Security Subcommittee, Congressman Lynch served as the lead Democrat on the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. Congressman Lynch voted in favor of H.R. 3364, which passed by a vote of 419-3. “I am grateful to my colleagues, Mr. Royce and Mr. Engel, for adopting both my bills without any changes into the final version of the broader legislation. This will send the right message to Russia, Iran and North Korea,” said Congressman Lynch. In particular, H.R. 3364 includes, in Section 275, the text of H.R. 2622, Congressman Lynch’s Countering Terrorist Financing Act of 2017, legislation which expands the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network’s ability to collect information under Geographic Targeting Orders in order to prevent money laundering. In addition, in Section 273, the legislation includes a study on the role of Treasury attachés in embassies, which was included in H.R. 5607, the Enhancing Treasury’s Anti-Terror Tools Act in the 114th Congress. In December of 2016, the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing released a bipartisan report of its two-year long probe into the threat terror financing poses to the U.S. financial system. In the 114th Congress, members of the Task Force introduced a number of bipartisan measures seeking to enhance the federal government’s approach to combatting the flow of funds to terrorist organizations. In the 114th Congress, H.R. 5602, Congressman Lynch’s Countering Terrorist Financing Act of 2017, passed the House by a vote of 356-47. Congressman Lynch reintroduced the legislation in the 115th Congress as H.R. 2622. In the 114th Congress, Congressman Lynch and Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Vice Chairman Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced H.R. 5607, the Enhancing Treasury’s Anti-Terror Tools Act, which passed the House by a vote of 362-45.
07.22.2017	BOSTON, MA – On Friday, July 21, 2017, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) conducted a meeting and site visit in Weymouth and East Braintree to further review the results of independent air quality testing conducted by Doctor Curtis Nordgaard. After meeting in Weymouth with Dr. Nordgaard, as well as with Alice Arena of the Fore River Residents Against the Compressor Station organization, Congressman Lynch visited the home of Mike Lang on Cotton Street in East Braintree, one of the four testing sites evaluated by Dr. Nordgaard for toxic air pollutants in the Fore River Basin. Dr. Nordgaard’s testing showed that the area surrounding the site of the proposed Weymouth Compressor Station tested at toxic levels of “criteria” air pollutants, such as ozone and lead, which is a violation of National Ambient Air Quality Standards, as well as tested at unsafe levels of hazardous pollutants, such as benzene and formaldehyde, which is a violation of the Clean Air Act. “As local families remain concerned about the proposed Weymouth Compressor Station, it is critical that we have all the facts about potential risks to the environment, public health, and public safety. I thank Dr. Nordgaard, Alice Arena, Councilor Becky Haugh, Councilor Margaret LaForest, and other local advocates for their commitment to promoting a safe and healthy environment for residents of Weymouth, Braintree, Quincy, and surrounding communities. Following my review of Dr. Nordgaard’s testing, I plan to take the concerns raised by the local community to the Environmental Protection Agency. I have been in contact with Governor Baker about this issue and will continue to consult the Governor as well as our local elected officials moving forward. The health and well-being of area families are of the utmost importance,” said Congressman Lynch. Earlier this week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) offered amendments to H.R. 2910, the Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act, seeking to improve safety for communities near proposed pipeline projects and ensure environmental and safety standards are met before construction begins. While Congressman Lynch’s amendment to ensure that pipelines are not placed in communities that already face unsafe air quality levels was not included in the final version of the bill, his amendment to improve pipeline security by requiring the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to consult with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) was accepted by voice vote. The amendment would ensure that prior to the issuance of federal authorization, FERC must consult with TSA to ensure compliance with TSA security guidance and best practices regarding pipeline infrastructure security, pipeline cyber security, pipeline personnel security, and other pipeline security measures designed to ensure the public safety.
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the Vice-Chair of the bipartisan Quiet Skies Caucus, filed a series of amendments to H.R. 2997, the 21st Century Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act, also known as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill. Congressman Lynch is strongly advocating for provisions that reduce airplane noise, improve the quality of life for local communities under flight paths, and promote a more responsive FAA. “I hear daily from families in Milton, Hull, South Boston, and other communities in the 8th District about the impact of concentrated and relentless airplane noise. As the House considers the reauthorization of the FAA, it is critically important that strong provisions are included to address constituent concerns about the public health, noise, and environmental impacts of the NextGen precision-based navigation procedures. Unfortunately, in our area, the FAA has proven to be the least responsive agency in the federal government. These proposed amendments will help increase community engagement, explore alternate flight paths, and ensure that the public health impacts of airplane noise are taken into account in FAA decision-making going forward. I thank State Senator Walter Timilty, State Representative Nick Collins, our local elected officials, and local advocacy groups for keeping the pressure on the FAA to ensure that community concerns are heard loud and clear,” said Congressman Lynch. After hearing directly from local advocates and receiving a letter from the Milton Town Administrator sent on behalf of the Milton Board of Selectmen to members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation, Congressman Lynch offered an amendment to require an Expert Consensus Report from the Health and Medicine Division of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Within 30 days of enactment, the National Academies of Sciences will be required to convene a committee of experts in health and environmental science to examine the various health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution and prepare a corresponding Expert Consensus Report that sets forth current scientific knowledge relating to the various health impacts of air traffic noise and pollution. While Republicans included a watered-down version of Congressman Lynch’s legislation, H.R. 598, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation Act in the FAA Reauthorization, they removed critical provisions that would require the FAA to initiate a health study surveying the public health impacts at airports around the country. They also extended the timeline for the study, delaying answers for local communities. In order to increase accountability and get much-needed data on the impacts of airplane noise on local communities, Congressman Lynch offered an amendment to insert the full text of the Airplane Impacts Mitigation Act into the FAA Reauthorization bill. In addition, Congressman Lynch offered amendments to improve the responsiveness of Regional FAA Administrators. In order to eliminate the prolonged dispute about the FAA participating in a public forum, similar to what occurred ahead of Congressman Lynch’s December 2015 forum with the FAA, he offered an amendment that requires the Regional FAA Administrator to conduct public forums within affected local communities in their region every 90 days to address concerns regarding the logistical, environmental, and health impacts of aircraft overflight noise. Congressman Lynch also filed an amendment, which would establish a Regional Aircraft Noise Ombudsman in each FAA region to enhance agency responsiveness to public concerns with aircraft noise. While House leadership postponed consideration of H.R. 2997 and does not expect to vote on it this week, Congressman Lynch filed the amendments ahead of Monday’s amendment deadline and will seek to build bipartisan support for the amendments ahead of floor consideration for the FAA Reauthorization bill. Downloads » Text of Rep. Lynch FAA Amendment Expert Consensus Report» Text of Rep. Lynch FAA Amendment Airplane Impacts Mitigation Act» Text of Rep. Lynch FAA Amendment Regional Public Forums» Text of Rep. Lynch FAA Amendment Regional Ombudsman
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As House Republicans bring legislation to the House Floor that would speed up the approval of pipeline projects, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) offered amendments to H.R. 2910, the Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act, seeking to improve safety for communities near proposed pipeline projects and ensure environmental and safety standards are met before construction begins. In response to independent testing showing air pollutant levels higher than Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection standards near the site of the proposed Weymouth Compressor Station, Congressman Lynch filed an amendment to ensure that pipelines are not placed in communities that already face unsafe air quality levels. “Rather than expediting pipeline projects, federal regulators ought to carefully evaluate whether a pipeline project meets proper safety and environmental standards before issuing federal approval. Local families in Weymouth, West Roxbury, and surrounding cities and towns have many questions about how recent pipeline proposals will impact public safety, public health, and the environment. By taking legislative action to improve environmental and safety standards, we can better protect our constituents from the risks posed by pipelines that are placed in densely populated neighborhoods with existing threats to public safety, such as unsafe air quality or an active blasting area,” said Congressman Lynch. In particular, Congressman Lynch’s amendment would suspend the certificate of public convenience and necessity for project sites where certified independent air quality testing demonstrates existing violations of National Ambient Air Quality Standards or existing violations of requirements relating to hazardous pollutants listed under the Clean Air Act. In addition, Congressman Lynch filed an amendment to increase pipeline safety certification, particularly for projects where a pipeline developer has been the subject of an enforcement action by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). In November of 2016, a fatal gasoline pipeline explosion in Shelby County, Alabama killed one pipeline worker and injured five others, igniting two wildfires that burned over 30 acres of land. In April of 2016, a natural gas pipeline in Salem, Pennsylvania, operated by Spectra Energy, exploded injuring one person and damaging two homes. Congressman Lynch’s amendment requires the PHMSA Administrator to certify to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) that the project is compliant with existing PHMSA regulations regarding pipeline safety. Congressman Lynch also offered an amendment to improve pipeline security by requiring FERC to consult with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) prior to the issuance of federal authorization to ensure compliance with TSA security guidance and best practices regarding pipeline infrastructure security, pipeline cyber security, pipeline personnel security, and other pipeline security measures designed to ensure the public safety. Downloads » Text of Rep. Lynch Pipeline Amendment Air Quality» Text of Rep. Lynch Pipeline Amendment PHMSA» Text of Rep. Lynch Pipeline Amendment TSA
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following President Donald Trump’s announcement earlier this month that he would abandon the Paris Climate Agreement, just months after President Trump rescinded President Barack Obama’s “Climate Change and National Security” memorandum, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee, introduced H.R. 2908, the Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017. In light of President Trump’s actions as well as the current and potential impact of climate change on national security, H.R. 2908 ensures that the Federal Government appropriately considers climate change in the development of national security strategies and policies. “From outgoing Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and current Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats to Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, national security officials have widely recognized the risk climate change poses to human security, both in the United States and abroad. A comprehensive, coordinated strategy among stakeholders at all levels is critical if the United States is serious about strengthening our national security and mitigating risks posed by the impacts of climate change. Congress must swiftly take action to clearly demonstrate that President Trump’s recent abdication of leadership is unacceptable and risks irreparable damage to future generations,” said Congressman Lynch. “The Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017 calls on the Federal Government to step up and lead the fight against the greatest global threat facing the earth. Without action, the effects of global climate change will exacerbate geopolitical instability and threaten to displace millions of people across the world,” Congressman Lynch added. On June 1st, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord. On March 28th, President Trump signed an Executive Order on Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth, which rescinded the September 2016 directive issued by President Obama entitled “Climate Change and National Security.” The Obama directive set forth as federal policy a commitment to ensuring that the Federal Government identifies and considers the wide-ranging impact of climate change in the development of relevant national security doctrines, policies, and plans. The memorandum also established a “Climate and National Security Working Group” and required federal agencies to develop implementation plans to mitigate the effect of climate change on their national security missions. As reported by the Washington Post, this directive marked the first time that U.S. security agencies were required to consider climate change in the formulation of national security doctrine. In order to prevent irreparable damage from President Trump’s attempts to remove the U.S. from a global leadership role on climate change, H.R. 2908, the Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017, restores the core directives on national security and climate change included in President Obama’s September 2016 memorandum. In particular, the bill requires the Federal Government to consider the impacts of climate change in the development of relevant national security policies. In addition, the bill requires the establishment of a “Climate and National Security Working Group” made up of intelligence, defense, security, and other agency officials authorized to examine and develop an action plan on climate change and national security. Furthermore, the bill requires federal agencies to develop corresponding plans to address the impact of climate change on their national security missions and to update these plans at least annually. H.R. 2908, the Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017, is cosponsored by 26 Members of Congress, including Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Rep. John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Rep. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries (D-NY), Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Rep. Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA), Rep. A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA), Rep. Dwight Evans (D-PA), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-IL), Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA), and Rep. Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA). The text of H.R. 2908, the Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017, is available here. Downloads » H.R. 2908, the Climate Change National Security Strategy Act of 2017
06.05.2017	BOSTON, MA – As President Trump and his Administration reportedly weigh additional troop deployments and an expansion of the U.S. military presence in Iraq and Afghanistan, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and Congressman Peter Welch (D-Vermont) called on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to hold a bipartisan hearing to examine the long-term strategies of the Trump Administration in both countries. In a letter to Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, Congressman Lynch and Congressman Welch highlighted that the ongoing military and counterinsurgency operations in Iraq and Afghanistan merit robust oversight to determine the effectiveness of the strategies envisioned by President Trump and his Administration. “As the Trump Administration weighs expanding military capabilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is vital that the Oversight Committee evaluate the soundness of these proposals. With American servicemen and women being sent on to the battlefield overseas, it is critical that the Trump Administration is held accountable for a long-term strategy. The lack of transparency from the Trump Administration regarding their overall plan hinders Congress’ ability to determine whether deploying thousands of American troops is consistent with the original Authorization for the Use of Military Force granted 14 years ago,” said Congressman Lynch, the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee. “I think that initiating a major effort like this would require the Trump Administration to come back to Congress and explain its strategy and request a further authorization for that purpose consistent with the War Powers Act.” “It has been fourteen years since Congress authorized the use of force in Iraq or Afghanistan. Much has changed during that time, and it is our duty as Members of Congress to ensure that the Trump Administration’s strategy in those countries continues to serve American interests. Particularly as President Trump considers expansion of our missions and military capabilities in both countries, it is imperative that Members on both sides of the aisle are able to understand and evaluate the strategy we are pursuing in Iraq and Afghanistan going forward,” said Congressman Welch. In the wake of the series of deadly insurgent attacks in Afghanistan, including the recent devastating bombing in Kabul which resulted in over 90 deaths and more than 450 wounded, Congressman Lynch and Congressman Welch, both members of the Subcommittee on National Security, underscored the deteriorating security climate facing U.S.-coalition and Afghan Government operations to combat the Taliban. Following the recent appropriation of $4.3 billion to train and equip the Afghanistan National Defense and Security Forces, the Trump Administration is currently weighing an additional troop deployment to help “break the military deadlock” between the coalition and the Taliban-led insurgency. Meanwhile, President Trump formally delegated his authority to determine troop levels in Iraq and Syria to Secretary of Defense James Mattis and the Pentagon reportedly “has already been making quiet, incremental additions” to troop levels by “sending more advisers into Iraq to work with units closer to the fight in Mosul.” With discussion of an enduring troop presence in Iraq and nearly 15 years passing since the enactment of the 2002 Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq, Congressman Lynch and Congressman Welch noted the importance of an effective strategy from the Trump Administration, as well as strong congressional oversight, to wisely employ the use of American military personnel and enhance American national security interests. The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Lynch Welch Letter to Chaffetz OGR Hearing Request
06.01.2017	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement: “President Trump risks irreparably damaging America’s future generations by abandoning the Paris Climate Agreement. The daunting challenges posed by global climate change cannot be effectively addressed by using a piecemeal country- or region-specific approach, but rather require a full spectrum response which grapples with the near-term challenges anticipated in the next 30 years while of course re-engineering the way we live so that we actually shift the sustainability curve over the next century, buying time, so to speak, for future generations to undo the environmental damage sustained thus far. I currently serve as the lead Democrat on the Subcommittee on National Security and climate change is increasingly acknowledged and discussed as a top national security priority. Without action, the effects of global climate change will exacerbate geopolitical instability and threaten to displace millions of people across the world. It would be a national embarrassment for the United States to stand down while we allow China and others to lead the fight against the greatest global threat facing the earth. We should not leave it to others to rescue us from the devastating impacts of severe weather and rising sea levels and the degradation of our environment. Massachusetts has taken a leadership role in responding to climate change and I strongly believe the United States must have a global leadership role as well. I have cosponsored H. Res. 85, which expresses the United States House of Representatives’ commitment to support the Paris Climate Agreement, and I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and the Senate to develop commonsense approaches to climate change at the federal level.”
05.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the longstanding refusal of the Trump Administration to disclose ethics waivers allowing former lobbyists and industry attorneys to bypass ethics rules and work in the White House and other executive branch agencies, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) introduced H.R. 2762, the White House Ethics Transparency Act of 2017. While the Trump Administration abruptly reversed its opposition on Friday, it underscored that this decision was merely voluntary. In order to maximize transparency and accountability in this area, the White House Ethics Transparency Act will require the Trump and future Administrations to promptly disclose waivers of executive branch ethics rules to the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) – an independent agency that is statutorily authorized to ensure ethics compliance in the executive branch. The White House Ethics Transparency Act will also require the public posting of ethics waivers on the White House and OGE websites. “The Trump Administration’s continuing and brazen resistance to ethics transparency impedes necessary oversight by the Office of Government Ethics and decreases public confidence in the executive branch,” said Congressman Lynch. “While President Trump pledged to ‘drain the swamp,’ he has already flooded the White House and other federal agencies with former lobbyists, consultants, and industry attorneys whose previous work in the private sector presents serious conflict of interest concerns. Reports that former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn performed lobbying and consulting activities on behalf of foreign governments prior to his tenure in the White House underscore the importance of requiring the Administration to publicly disclose its decisions to waive its own ethics rules for executive branch officials. The White House Ethics Transparency Act would do just that and ensure that the American people receive the full picture of precisely who is working behind closed doors in their government.” As reported by the New York Times, the Trump Administration, “in a significant escalation of its clash with the government’s top ethics watchdog,” blocked a request by the OGE to disclose ethics waivers issued to political appointees working in the Administration. In a call for data sent to the White House on April 28, 2017, OGE Director Walter M. Shaub, Jr. requested that the Administration disclose to the OGE by June 1, 2017 written copies of ethics waivers granted to political appointees under current Executive Orders and federal regulations governing executive branch ethics and conflicts of interest. As noted by the New York Times, the Trump Administration, “in a highly unusual move,” responded to the OGE data call with its own letter asking Director Shaub to “stay” his request; as a result, the American public would have “no way of knowing if Mr. Trump’s staff members are complying with the rules.” In a May 22nd letter to the OMB Director Mick Mulvaney, Director Shaub declined the stay request and urged federal agency compliance with the June 1, 2017 deadline. According to Director Shaub, “[p]ublic confidence in the integrity of government decisionmaking demands no less.” OMB Director Mulvaney responded with a May 26th letter to the OGE indicating that the Administration would now provide the requested information. However, the OMB underscored that it would be doing so “voluntarily.” Director Mulvaney also noted that he would continue to explore “legal questions” surrounding the OGE data call request. In particular, H.R. 2762, the White House Ethics Transparency Act requires the Administration to disclose ethics waivers granted to executive branch officials within 30 days of issuance. Moreover, the bill requires the public posting of ethics waivers on the White House and the OGE websites. The scope of the bill includes Executive Order 13770, the “Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Appointees,” which was signed by President Trump on January 28, 2017. Executive Order 13770 includes several provisions covering individuals appointed on or after January 20, 2017. Under H.R. 2762, waivers issued to individuals on or after January 20, 2017 would be subject to release to the OGE and public disclosure. Original cosponsors include Oversight & Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD), Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Rep. Val Demings (D-FL), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Rep. André Carson (D-IN), Rep. Dina Titus (D-NV), Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Dwight Evans (D-PA), Rep. Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Rep. Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX). In addition to introducing the White House Ethics Transparency Act, on May 24th, Congressman Lynch and Congressman O’Halleran sent a letter to the OMB Director Mulvaney expressing concern over the Trump Administration’s refusal to publicly disclose ethics waivers for high-ranking officials. The letter, signed by 58 House Democrats, noted “As Members of Congress, we are committed and bound to ensuring the American public has faith in the institutions that serve them – that includes upholding our ethics rules to keep conflicts of interest out of the highest levels of our government. To that end, we urge you to immediately comply with OGE’s original request to deliver all copies of waivers issued to appointees by the original June 1 deadline.” Earlier this month, Congressman Lynch joined Ranking Member Cummings and all Oversight Committee Democrats on a letter to the OGE Director Shaub strongly supporting his office’s request for copies of waivers of ethics rules issued by the Trump Administration to lobbyists and others working in the White House and throughout the Trump Administration. The May 19th letter highlighted that it is critical for the OGE to “…make transparent how the individuals serving in the Trump Administration are complying, or failing to comply, with President Trump’s executive order and other ethics requirements.” The text of H.R. 2762, the White House Ethics Transparency Act of 2017, is available here. Downloads » H.R. 2762, the White House Ethics Transparency Act of 2017
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), along with United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Scituate Fire Department $95,239 in Assistance to Firefighters Grant funding. The grant funding will be used for two chest compression devices and two ambulance power stretchers and loading systems. “This fire grant for the Town of Scituate is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Town Administrator Patricia Vinchesi, Fire Chief John Murphy, Deputy Fire Chief Alfred Elliott, and the entire Scituate Fire Department,” said Congressman Stephen Lynch. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need the proper equipment to do their jobs. This federal funding will provide the Scituate Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep Scituate families and themselves safe.” “Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families safe, and they should have the best resources available to safely and effectively protect our communities,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “Firefighters deserve our support, and this federal funding will help provide training and tools our fire departments need to do their jobs.” “Our firefighters are committed to ensuring the safety and security of our cities and towns, and these new grants will strengthen their ability to do so. Our first responder heroes deserve the best equipment and resources available to them so they can continue to assist Massachusetts residents in their time of need,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “I commend the fire chiefs and local leaders who worked and partnered to obtain these lifesaving federal funds.” This week, FEMA announced nine grants for fire departments in Massachusetts totaling over $1.25 million in round six of the 2016 Assistance to Firefighters Grants. For more information on FEMA’s fire grant program, please visit their website.
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Ann Kuster (D-NH), Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) reintroduced legislation to create an Office of Public Participation and Consumer Advocacy at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). As one of the lead agencies responsible for developing energy infrastructure and ensuring reliability of the electric grid, FERC has sweeping authority over the wholesale power markets and ultimate jurisdiction in the federal siting and permitting process for natural gas pipelines. And while FERC’s decisions determine which energy projects are constructed and significantly influence the energy prices consumers pay, private citizens have expressed frustration that participating in FERC’s complex proceedings is extremely challenging. The Public Engagement at FERC Act will assist residential and small commercial energy consumers in participating in FERC proceedings, ensuring the public has a strong role in shaping the nation’s energy future. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Al Franken (D-MN), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Mark Warner (D-VA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Consumers deserve a seat at the table when FERC regulates electricity rates or when they approve energy infrastructure,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky. “Those decisions can raise or lower the utility bills for families and small businesses, and they matter for the communities where a pipeline or transmission line is routed. In 1978, Congress recognized the need for public involvement and authorized the Office of Public Participation, yet almost four decades later this office has yet to be created or funded. Our legislation would establish an Office of Public Participation and Consumer Advocacy to ensure that consumers and small business customers are represented in proceedings that affect their lives and their pocketbooks.” “Safety comes first when it comes to energy infrastructure and folks have the right to make their voices heard during the approval process,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I’m proud to join my colleagues to call for a much-needed public advocate to ensure that folks living next door to Indian Point, pipeline projects, or new energy infrastructure, have a champion at FERC and a seat at the table.” “I’ve met countless times with local community members who have expressed serious concerns that FERC has not adequately taken their viewpoints into consideration,” said Rep. Ann Kuster. “We need to ensure that local communities have a meaningful opportunity to weigh in on the impact of any new energy project that comes through their backyard. I’m proud to support this bill, which will fund the Office of Public Participation within FERC and require the agency to better give constituents a voice in the review process of projects.” “In recent years we have seen how vital transparency is to reviewing new infrastructure projects,” said Rep. Niki Tsongas. “Public input is necessary for a fair and effective process and this legislation would help protect the public’s right to participation and information. By creating an Office of Public Participation and Consumer Advocacy, we not only give voices to the families most impacted, but we ensure accountability for the agencies, officials and companies involved. I thank my colleagues for their partnership in this effort and look forward to working with them to move this bill forward.” “FERC’s decision-making has a direct effect on the quality of life and safety of the residents of the 8th Congressional District of Massachusetts and I share their serious concerns about the lack of public input in FERC proceedings. As we’ve seen with the proposal for the West Roxbury Lateral pipeline and the Weymouth Compressor Station, the natural gas pipelines that FERC approves create serious public safety and environmental risks for cities and towns across Massachusetts. Thanks to the collaborative work of my colleagues, Rep. Schakowsky, Rep. Maloney, Rep. Kuster, and Rep. Tsongas, we are increasing public engagement to ensure that local residents have a seat at the table going forward and we are working hard to ensure that the voices of the families we represent are heard loud and clear by FERC,” said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch. In 1978, Congress authorized FERC to create an Office of Public Participation under the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA) that would assist public and consumer advocates in intervening at FERC. While the authorization has been in effect for nearly 40 years, the Office of Public Participation was never created. The Public Engagement at FERC Act would update and strengthen the 1978 PURPA language to better ensure that the Commission is making decisions that are in the best interest of those who will be most impacted. Specifically, the Public Engagement at FERC Act would: Establish an office that would directly participate in FERC proceedings on rates, service, and infrastructure siting to represent the interests of residential and small commercial consumers. Employ directed outreach methods, such as consultation services and technical assistance, to ensure the interests of the public are adequately represented at FERC. Create a Public and Consumer Advocacy Advisory Committee for the office composed of representatives from the national and state-based nongovernmental consumer advocacy community. Prepare reports and issue guidance for potential improvements to industry and FERC practices to better incorporate the public voice. Provide intervenor funding to individuals or small commercial energy consumer groups to encourage their participation in FERC proceedings.
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) introduced H.R. 2622, the Countering Terrorist Financing Act of 2017, which expands the ability of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to collect information under Geographic Targeting Orders (GTOs) in order to prevent money laundering. Congressman Peter King (R-New York) joined Congressman Lynch as an original cosponsor of H.R. 2622. H.R. 2622 extends the anti-money laundering efforts of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and will help the FinCEN achieve its mission to “safeguard the financial system from illicit use and combat money laundering and promote national security.” The legislation authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to include all funds when issuing certain GTOs, including funds involved in an electronic fund transfer. GTOs impose additional reporting requirements on one or more domestic financial institutions or nonfinancial businesses in a geographic area to ensure compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act. “By widening the scope of information FinCEN can collect under geographic targeting orders, we are increasing transparency in financial transactions. FinCEN will more readily be able to identify assets being hidden in high-risk transactions, particularly illicit funds in the real estate market being transferred by bad actors, whether it is a terrorist organization or a drug cartel. As terrorist organizations become more sophisticated at money laundering, it is critical that our government agencies are able to use a variety of tools to effectively respond to these national security threats and disrupt terrorist financiers,” said Congressman Lynch. In the 114th Congress, H.R. 5602, similar legislation introduced by Congressman Lynch, passed the House by a vote of 356-47 on June 11, 2016. Congressman Lynch and Congressman King are both members of the Financial Services Committee and are co-chairs of the Task Force on Anti-Terrorism & Proliferation Financing. The text of H.R. 2622, the Countering Terrorist Financing Act of 2017, is available here. Downloads » Text of H.R. 2622, the Countering Terrorist Financing Act of 2017
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) sent a letter, signed by 58 additional members of Congress, to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney expressing concern and disapproval over the Trump Administration’s refusal to publicly disclose ethics waivers for high-ranking officials. “During my time as a law enforcement officer and throughout my career, I always put my faith in ethics and the rule of law,” said Congressman O’Halleran. “I am disappointed to see the Trump Administration’s disregard for longstanding ethics rules that provide transparency and accountability to the American people. We should be focused on fighting corruption in Washington; not encouraging it.” “Alongside my colleague Congressman O’Halleran, we are requesting that the Trump Administration comply with the Office of Government Ethics upcoming deadline for disclosure of ethics waivers. The Trump Administration’s brazen opposition to ethic transparency hinders oversight by the OGE as well as decreases public confidence in the executive branch,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am also introducing legislation to require the Administration to disclose to the OGE any ethics waivers covering political appointees within 30 days of issuance as well as publicly posting these waivers for review by the American people.” Following recent reports that political appointees within the Trump Administration received secret ethics waivers, a violation of ethics rules, the Office of Government Ethics requested copies of all waivers. In response, the White House sent a letter to the OGE, asking that the request be withdrawn and challenging the legal authority of the office to request information. “As Members of Congress, we are committed and bound to ensuring the American public has faith in the institutions that serve them – that includes upholding our ethics rules to keep conflicts of interest out of the highest levels of our government,” wrote the group of lawmakers. “To that end, we urge you to immediately comply with OGE’s original request to deliver all copies of waivers issued to appointees by the original June 1 deadline.” The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Letter to OMB Director Mulvaney re: Ethics Waivers
05.21.2017	BOSTON, MA – On Monday, May 22, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will visit the Jamaica Plain VA Campus to meet with Vincent Ng, Director of the VA Boston Healthcare System, alongside local elected officials, veterans service officers, as well as veterans organizations, to review the handling of cases of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). As veterans return from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with increased exposure to improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and repeated cycles of battlefield trauma, Congressman Lynch believes it is critical to ensure that the VA has thorough and accurate procedures in place to address potential cases of TBI and PTSD. According to the Chronic Effects of Neurotrauma Consortium, nearly 20% of returning service members who deployed to Iraq since 2003 have had at least one TBI. In the wake of recent reports in the Boston Herald of concerns over the examination and handling of TBI cases, Congressman Lynch, Director Ng, and various stakeholders will review current procedures and discuss potential enhancements to maintain high quality care for all veterans. “I look forward to meeting with Director Ng, as well as state and local elected officials and veterans’ stakeholders, to discuss the procedures in place at the VA Boston Healthcare System and at VA hospitals across Massachusetts. Our veterans, by their dedicated service to our nation, have earned the right to high quality and reliable health care. We must make every effort to ensure proper procedures are in place at our veterans’ health care facilities to properly diagnose TBI and PTSD and provide our dedicated service men and women with the type of care that they need,” said Congressman Lynch. “During my most recent visit to Baghdad last month, I actually met a young Marine who was on his ninth tour of duty in Iraq. After all those tours, a lot of our men and women in uniform are bound to have hidden wounds from near-constant exposure to battlefield stress over extended periods. I honestly believe there is a direct correlation between these highly repetitive tours of duty and the difficulties that many of our returning veterans experience when making the transition to civilian life – including elevated incidence of substance abuse and suicide. A critical way to ease those difficulties is ensuring that our veterans receive high quality, dependable health care and find a supportive community when they return home. We have wonderful, dedicated doctors, nurses and staff at the VA, we just need to make sure that they have the tools they need to get this right,” Congressman Lynch added. Due to patient confidentiality concerns, the meeting itself will be closed press. Congressman Lynch and others will be available after the meeting for comment WHAT: Visit to Jamaica Plain VA Campus WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch WHEN: Monday, May 22, 8:00 a.m. (closed press meeting) Media availability to follow at approximately 9:00 a.m. WHERE: Lobby of the Jamaica Plain Campus of the VA Boston Healthcare System 150 South Huntington Avenue Jamaica Plain, MA 02130 Please RSVP to Elizabeth.Zappala@mail.house.gov if you plan to attend. The parking lot of the Jamaica Plain Campus is reserved for veterans attending appointments at the VA. Members of the press should park on the street.
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and Congressman Peter King (R-New York), the co-chairs of the Task Force on Anti-Terrorism & Proliferation Financing, introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 2426, the Secure Government Buildings from Espionage Act of 2017. In response to concerns about the ability to mitigate security risks without knowing about foreign ownership of government-leased real estate, H.R. 2426 would ensure that beneficial ownership information is collected as part of the government leasing process for buildings with high-security leased space. In January of 2017, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report, “GSA Should Inform Tenant Agencies When Leasing High-Security Space from Foreign Owners,” which noted 20 instances of the General Services Administration (GSA) leasing high-security space for government agencies in buildings that were foreign-owned. These spaces included six Federal Bureau of Investigation field offices and three Drug Enforcement Administration field offices located in buildings owned by companies based in Canada, China, Israel, Japan, and South Korea. In addition, the GAO report noted that the GSA did not have ownership information for about one-third of the GSA’s 1,406 high-security leases as of March 2016. The GAO also highlighted the risks of anonymous companies and hidden beneficial owners in commercial real estate. Without beneficial ownership information, the GSA may not be aware of the source of funds to finance the building and cannot track potential money laundering connected to the foreign-owned building. “Protecting the physical security of government office spaces as well as improving the cybersecurity of confidential and potentially classified government information is of the utmost importance. By improving the GSA's record keeping of the owners of the buildings in which they lease high-security space, we will help prevent potential lapses in security and protect government agencies from potential data breaches or incidences of espionage,” said Congressman Lynch. “I thank Congressman King for joining me to introduce this important legislation. It is critical to our national security that we have beneficial ownership information for buildings in which sensitive government information is kept.” Under current law, the GSA is required to determine whether the prospective lessor is a responsible party, but they are not required to consider foreign ownership of the building. H.R. 2426 would correct this gap and ensure that beneficial ownership information is collected as part of the GSA leasing process to ensure that the federal government is aware if foreign owners have a stake in the buildings it leases. H.R. 2426 is supported by Global Witness, an international non-government organization focused on increasing transparency and exposing potential conflicts in the global political and economic system. “The federal government is the biggest spender in the global economy, so it’s no surprise that secretly owned companies doing business with the U.S. are used to rip off taxpayers and jeopardize national security,” said Eryn Schornick, Policy Advisor of Global Witness’ U.S. office. “This legislation is essential to equip the government with the information it needs to ensure that it knows exactly who it’s doing business with.” The text of H.R. 2426, the Secure Government Buildings from Espionage Act of 2017, is available here. Downloads » Text of H.R. 2426, the Secure Government Buildings from Espionage Act of 2017
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, all 33 Democratic Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the House Committee on the Judiciary sent a detailed letter to their respective Republican Chairmen outlining their demand for an immediate investigation into the actions of President Donald Trump, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and top White House aides: “We are writing to request that the Oversight Committee and the Judiciary Committee launch an immediate joint investigation into whether President Donald Trump and his top officials are engaged in an ongoing conspiracy to obstruct the criminal, counter-intelligence, and oversight investigations currently being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Justice, and Congress into members of his presidential campaign and their contacts with Russian officials.” The letter explains: “Given the gravity of the events that have occurred over the past several weeks, there is simply no reasonable question that the Oversight Committee and Judiciary Committee should already be conducting a robust investigation of these issues that includes public hearings, document requests, and interviews and depositions. It is unacceptable to continue ignoring these scandals.” With respect to the Oversight Committee’s lack of action to date, the letter states: “Although Chairman Chaffetz recently sent a letter to the Department of Justice Inspector General, we believe that response is anemic—especially for the Oversight Committee, which claims to be the premiere investigative body in the House of Representatives—and particularly in comparison to the multiple ‘emergency’ hearings he called and the unilateral subpoenas he issued as part of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.” With respect to the Judiciary Committee’s lack of action to date, the letter states: “On several occasions—through at least four letters to Chairman Goodlatte, and in debate on three separate resolutions of inquiry debated in the Judiciary Committee—we have called for the Majority to take action ‘to ensure the integrity and independence of both the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation’.” The Members conclude: “We are concerned that the continued failure of House Republicans to take action in the face of this onslaught of allegations will cause significant damage to the faith that the American people have in the credibility and integrity of our Committees and the House of Representatives. We have a solemn obligation under the Constitution to act as a check on the Executive Branch and to hold President Trump accountable. It is time to do our job.” The letter requests an immediate public hearing with Director Comey and copies of all of the FBI Director’s memos relating to the President, as well as all associated agency and White House records, including any audio tapes, and notes, if they exist. The letter also requests that the Oversight Committee schedule an immediate vote on a motion to subpoena the White House to produce documents it has been withholding in response to the bipartisan request from Ranking Member Cummings and Chairman Chaffetz on March 22, 2017. All Democratic Members of the Oversight Committee sent a letter to Chairman Chaffetz on April 27, 2017, insisting that he press the White House to produce these documents, but the Chairman refused to even hold a meeting. Click here to read the full letter. List of Members Signing Letter Elijah E. Cummings John Conyers, Jr. Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Committee on the Judiciary Government Reform Carolyn Maloney Eleanor Holmes Norton Jerrold Nadler Wm. Lacy Clay Zoe Lofgren Stephen F. Lynch Sheila Jackson Lee Jim Cooper Steve Cohen Gerald E. Connolly Henry Johnson Robin L. Kelly Luis Gutierrez Brenda L. Lawrence Karen Bass Bonnie Watson Coleman Cedric Richmond Stacey E. Plaskett Hakeem Jeffries Val Butler Demings David Cicilline Raja Krishnamoorthi Eric Swalwell Jamie Raskin Ted Lieu Peter Welch Pramila Jayapal Matt Cartwright Bradley Schneider Mark DeSaulnier Theodore Deutch John Sarbanes Downloads » Letter to Chairman Chaffetz and Chairman Goodlatte Calling for Robust Investigation
05.13.2017	“My Pursuit” by Seoyeon Kim of Braintree BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) recently announced that Seoyeon Kim of Braintree won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” in the Eighth Congressional District of Massachusetts. The annual art competition is open to all high school students across the country. The winning piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 13 young artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings, and collages, among other mediums. The judges selected a piece entitled “My Pursuit” by Seoyeon Kim, a junior at CATS Academy Boston in Braintree. The judges noted that Seoyeon’s artwork, created using ink, sand, and acrylic, incorporated a self-portrait alongside a skillful rendering of clock gears and the cosmos. The judges highlighted that it was imaginative, creative, and a nice mixture of realism and abstraction. Seoyeon’s artwork will be flown to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Seoyeon Kim is a wonderfully gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch. “Her artwork is a reflection of her talent and hard work and I congratulate her on this exciting achievement. I hope that Seoyeon’s success will encourage other students from Braintree and across the Eighth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch added, “We have a number of gifted artists in the Eighth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in part to the support of their dedicated parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
05.09.2017	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s firing of Federal Bureau of Investigation (F.B.I.) Director James Comey: “F.B.I. Director Comey’s actions in the closing days of the recent Presidential election constituted a deep failure in judgment. However, in the midst of an F.B.I. investigation into Russian interference with the Presidential election, the timing of his removal raises profound questions regarding the ability and willingness of the Department of Justice to carry out its mission on behalf of the American people. That mission is to enforce the law and ensure the impartial administration of justice even when doing so may reach the highest levels of our Government. The American people deserve answers and a comprehensive, transparent, and accountable investigation into reports that a foreign government deliberately interfered with our most sacred democratic institution. We also need to reassure all Americans that the rule of law is being followed, and that the President, Attorney General, and Deputy Attorney General are not trying to thwart justice. To this end, it is my intention to persuade my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in Congress that a bipartisan, independent commission appointed by Congress, as well as a Special Prosecutor, are required to conduct a thorough investigation of these matters. Congress must take the necessary steps to see that this investigation is pursued with all deliberate speed and without any interference from the White House or the Department of Justice.”
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement after voting against the so-called American Health Care Act: “I remain strongly opposed to TrumpCare and I am disappointed that yet again House Republican leadership rushed their proposal to the Floor without hearings, time for public input, or an estimate of what this will cost average families. This is not a credible attempt to improve access to affordable healthcare. TrumpCare would weaken pre-existing condition protections, causing premium increases for millions. This proposal would hurt retirees’ access to healthcare by weakening Medicare and by dramatically increasing costs for individuals over age 50. And TrumpCare does nothing to address the rising cost of prescription drugs. I am very concerned about the impact of this proposal on families in Massachusetts and across the country. I continue to call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to make a sincere, bipartisan effort to improve the Affordable Care Act, rather than haphazardly repealing provisions and making no attempts to decrease healthcare costs for everyday Americans.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), alongside Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-San Diego), Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-San Diego), and Congressman Brian Mast (R-Palm City), introduced legislation to posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Glen A. Doherty, Tyrone Woods, and Sean Smith in recognition of their contributions to our nation. These four Americans honorably served the United States and were killed during the September 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor bestowed by Congress to express public gratitude for distinguished patriotism and heroism. “Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, and Sean Smith served our nation with bravery and distinction. We owe it to their families to honor their legacy, courage, and selfless sacrifice with the Congressional Gold Medal. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation to honor true American heroes,” said Congressman Lynch. “These four Americans worked daily to advance the ideals our nation was founded on and lost their lives in the service of our country during the attack on our diplomatic mission in Libya. Our bipartisan legislation recognizes their bravery and sacrifice with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian honor that Congress has to bestow,” said Congressman Mast. Ambassador Stevens, a native of Grass Valley, California, served in the United States Foreign Service for 21 years as a leading American diplomat renowned for his commitment to advancing democracy and partnership with nations around the world. Mr. Doherty, a native of Winchester, Massachusetts, and Mr. Woods, a native of Portland, Oregon, were security contractors who previously served as combat-decorated Navy SEALS for a combined 32 years protecting American diplomats, their fellow servicemen and women, as well as the American people. Mr. Smith, a native of San Diego, California, served in the United States Air Force for six years and was awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal prior to joining the State Department with posts in Baghdad, Iraq, Brussels, Belgium, and The Hague. In particular, H.R. 2315 authorizes the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous award, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean Smith in recognition of their contributions to the Nation. The full text of the legislation is available here. Under the rules of the House Republican Conference, a recipient of a Congressional Gold Medal, if deceased, may only receive the honor if they have been deceased for not less than five years or more than 25 years. Congressman Lynch and his colleagues will strongly advocate for this legislation to pass Congress before September of 2017 in order to ensure these heroes are properly honored in a timely manner. Congressman Lynch previously advocated for the approval of death benefits for Mr. Doherty’s family as well as families in similar situations. Congressman Lynch first introduced H.R. 312, the Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act, in November of 2014. The legislation sought to remove a significant penalty in federal law that prohibited the families of overseas contractors who are killed in the line of duty from receiving full death benefits if the deceased employee is unmarried with no children or other dependents. The families of overseas federal contractors, including the family of Mr. Doherty, faced significant difficulty in receiving death benefits under federally-required insurance policies when their loved one is killed on the job, but is single with no dependents. In April of 2016, the Central Intelligence Agency announced the approval of enhanced death benefits for the families of eligible C.I.A. employees and contractors who have been killed in the line of duty overseas since 1983, including the family of Mr. Doherty. Downloads » H.R. 2315, Congressional Gold Medal Bill
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security subcommittee, joined Congressman Ron DeSantis (FL-06), the Chairman of the National Security subcommittee, to reintroduce the bipartisan Puppies Assisting Wounded Servicemembers (PAWS) Act in order to expand access to service dogs for veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). H.R. 2327, the PAWS Act of 2017, has 55 cosponsors including 28 Democrats and 27 Republicans. Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced the Senate companion bill, S. 1014, the PAWS Act of 2017. “We have asked our veterans to endure great sacrifice so that we may live in freedom; we must provide the best care possible to those bearing invisible wounds of war such as post-traumatic stress,” Congressman DeSantis said. “I have seen first-hand how specially-trained service dogs can mitigate the symptoms of post-traumatic stress for veterans who have been failed by traditional therapies. The PAWS Act will allow the VA to utilize this specialized treatment in their fight against post-traumatic stress.” Congressman DeSantis continued, “The epidemic of veteran suicides demands immediate action by Congress. Passing the PAWS Act will save veteran lives.” “Veterans with PTSD may have left the battlefield, but they are still in a tough fight. Service dogs can provide support, peace, and joy to these Americans as they confront the invisible scars of war. Through the PAWS Act, we can bring our veterans relief by offering them hope,” said Senator Fischer. “As servicemembers return from repeat tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is critical that we provide them with the resources they have earned to assist with the difficult transition to civilian life. From ensuring access to high quality, timely care at our V.A. hospitals to exploring innovative approaches to mental health resources, such as a service dog pilot program, we must examine every opportunity to improve the health and quality of life of our heroic veterans. I am honored to join Congressman DeSantis to introduce the PAWS Act, which could help save the life of a wounded warrior struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder,” said Congressman Lynch. Senator Booker said, “We owe a deep debt to veterans who have so bravely defended our liberties. Service dogs can be an effective approach to supporting veterans who are struggling with PTSD or other combat-related illnesses, just as they have shown to be effective for physically disabled veterans. Our bipartisan bill will enable the VA to provide grants for service dogs to provide comfort for our heroes and improved quality of life as they re-adapt to civilian life.” The Human-Animal Bond Research Institute has funded an ongoing pilot study conducted by Dr. Marguerite O’Haire of Purdue University to evaluate the effect of K9s for Warriors service dogs on veterans with PTSD. Preliminary results have been predominantly positive, with veterans reporting improvements in PTSD symptoms, depression, and anxiety in conjunction with a decreased reliance on prescription drugs. Bill Summary GRANTS — The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a 5-year pilot program under which the Secretary provides a $25,000 grant to an eligible organization to pair a veteran suffering from severe post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) with a service dog. In addition to initial pairing costs, the grant shall cover: (1) a veterinary health insurance policy for the life of the dog, (2) service dog hardware, and (3) payment for travel expenses for the veteran to obtain the dog. ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS — In order to be eligible for a VA grant for a service dog pairing, the organization must either be an Assistance Dog International accredited organization that also meets specific criteria listed in the measure, or meet the Association of Service Dog Providers for Military Veterans Service Dog Agency Standards, which cater to the needs of veterans with PTSD. ELIGIBLE VETERANS — In order to be eligible for participation in the pilot, the veteran must have completed traditional therapies for PTSD and remain symptomatic. A VA medical provider or clinical team must determine that the veteran is an appropriate candidate for the program, and the veteran shall see the VA medical provider at least every 6 months to remain eligible. OFFSET — The pilot is capped at $10,000,000 for the 5-year period covering 2018-2023 and entirely offset with funds from the VA Office of Human Resources and Administration. SUPPORTING ORGANIZATIONS — The American Legion, American Kennel Club, K9s for Warriors
04.12.2017	Congressman Lynch with Sgt. John Tsohandaridis BOSTON, MA – During a congressional delegation to Iraq and Kuwait, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) met with Sergeant John Tsohandaridis, a member of the Canton Fire Department. Congressman Lynch was reviewing recent operations in Iraq as part of his oversight duties as the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee. This was Congressman Lynch’s 18th trip to Iraq. Sergeant John Tsohandaridis is currently deployed to Iraq and Kuwait as a part of a Helicopter squadron conducting rescue and recovery operations in connection with ongoing effort to defeat ISIS and liberate the City of Mosul in northern Iraq. Sgt. Tsohandaridis had high praise for the Canton Fire Department and the Town of Canton for supporting his decision to serve. “I am very proud of the courageous work that Sgt. Tsohandaridis is doing here in Iraq. He is a wonderful reflection of the Town of Canton and he is widely respected by his fellow soldiers and our Iraqi and coalition partners,” said Congressman Lynch.
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), led a letter to Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance Chairman Steve Pearce (R-NM) calling for a hearing to examine North Korea’s hacking activities. Congressman Lynch and his colleagues requested a hearing to conduct necessary oversight of cybersecurity systems in the banking sector as well as examine cybersecurity threats from North Korea and other state actors. “With increasing evidence of North Korea cyberattack’s targeting U.S. financial institutions as well as banks abroad, it is critical that the Financial Services Committee promptly examine these hacking activities and develop safeguards to protect banks and their customers from cyber criminals. Without proper oversight, Americans’ financial data and personal information as well as our national security are at risk,” said Congressman Lynch. As recently reported by the New York Times, hackers associated with North Korea attempted to break into Polish banks in late 2016 and left behind a “list of targets…including big American financial institutions like State Street Bank and Trust and the Bank of New York Mellon.” In addition, the National Security Agency’s Deputy Director Rick Ledgett suggested last month that North Korea was responsible for a Bangladesh bank heist – an $81 million cyber heist of the Bangladesh central bank. Congressman Lynch’s letter was signed by Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance Ranking Member Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), as well as the members of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance: Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Ruben J. Kihuean (D-NV), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Bill Foster (D-IL), and Juan Vargas (D-CA). The full text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Congressman Lynch Letter to FSC Requesting Hearing on North Korea's Hacking Activities
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the recent natural gas pipeline rupture in Providence, Rhode Island, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) called on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to suspend the use of the West Roxbury Lateral pipeline and place the proposed Weymouth Compressor Station project on hold until the incident is fully investigated and public safety risks are mitigated. In a letter to FERC Acting Chairman Cheryl LaFleur, Congressman Lynch raised concerns that Spectra Energy does not have the infrastructure in place to appropriately monitor gas leaks or potential safety hazards. “Following two gas leaks on Spectra pipelines in New England in a matter of months, I am increasingly concerned that the safety of local families is at risk. Proper safety measures must be put in place prior to moving forward with Spectra’s proposals for the densely populated neighborhoods of West Roxbury and Weymouth. While I appreciate neighbors taking the initiative to report the smell of gas, we need built in checks and balances within Spectra’s organization to detect leaks and ensure public safety and environmental hazards are properly addressed,” said Congressman Lynch. On March 29, an interstate natural gas pipeline owned by Spectra Energy in Providence, RI ruptured, forcing the closure of Interstate 195 and several streets in the area. Congressman Lynch’s letter notes “the Providence pipeline rupture is not the first incident in 2017 where Spectra Energy failed to notice a gas leak before residents reported the smell of gas. On January 6, 2017, a relief valve froze on a Spectra Energy gas metering station in Weymouth, Massachusetts and residents a mile away detected the smell of gas.” According to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, nationwide, there were 37 serious pipeline incidents and 305 significant pipeline incidents in 2016. This year, there have already been seven serious pipeline incidents and 44 significant pipeline incidents. With incidents occurring on Spectra Energy pipelines in Providence, RI and Weymouth, MA already in 2017, Congressman Lynch called for a comprehensive investigation of the Providence incident and urged FERC to place the Weymouth and West Roxbury projects on hold until all appropriate safety measures have been adopted. Following the January gas leak in Weymouth, Congressman Lynch promptly visited the site and sought a full accounting of the incident. Congressman Lynch also attended the Weymouth Town Council meeting on February 6 with representatives from Spectra Energy and called for the Weymouth facility to be run properly and safely. Downloads » Congressman Lynch Letter to Acting FERC Chairman LaFleur re Providence Pipeline Rupture 4-05-17
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee, introduced H.R. 1857, the Confidential Informant Accountability Act. As the Oversight Committee holds a hearing on the “Use of Confidential Informants at ATF and DEA,” Congressman Lynch called for robust congressional oversight into the selection and use of confidential informants by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), and other federal law enforcement agencies. “Law enforcement agencies are spending millions of dollars on confidential informant programs and Congress does not have information on who these informants are, if they committed any crimes and whether they have been properly vetted. While confidential informants can be a useful investigatory tool, we have seen far too often that the programs can be abused. In response to reports of waste, fraud and abuse in confidential informant programs at law enforcement agencies, it is critical that we enhance congressional oversight of human sources. The Confidential Informant Accountability Act will improve transparency, accountability and safety in confidential informant programs,” said Congressman Lynch. In September of 2016, the Office of the Department of Justice Inspector General released an audit report on the confidential informant program administered by DEA. The report noted that there are 18,000 informants at DEA – including over 9,500 of whom received $237 million in payments for information provided to the agency. DEA heavily relied on independent tipsters known as “limited use” informants who receive little-to-no agency supervision and whose reliability is highly-questionable. Nevertheless, these limited use informants are some of DEA’s highest-paid sources. In addition, the New York Times recently reported that federal agents from ATF directed confidential informants to engage in sham transactions with a collective of tobacco farmers as “an off the books way to finance undercover investigations and pay informants without the usual cumbersome paperwork and close oversight…” ATF reportedly manages 1,855 informants at an annual cost of $4.3 million. In addition to these recent alarming reports about the confidential informant programs, Congressman Lynch repeatedly called for an oversight investigation into the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s use of confidential informants in New England in 2011. H.R. 1857, the Confidential Informant Accountability Act, is cosponsored by Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-Baltimore) and supported by the Project On Government Oversight. “This bill would provide increased transparency between executive agencies that employ confidential informants and the Congress. This transparency is necessary to equip Congress with the information it needs to conduct meaningful oversight of these programs. POGO is proud to support this legislation and we hope it will receive the bipartisan support it deserves,” said Elizabeth Hempowicz, Policy Counsel, Project On Government Oversight (POGO). In particular, H.R. 1857 would require federal law enforcement agencies to fully report to Congress regarding their payments to confidential informants as well as the amounts received by each agency through their cooperation with confidential informants. The bill would also require federal law enforcement agencies to report all serious crimes committed by their confidential informants including an accounting of the total number of each type and category of crime; an attestation of whether the crime was authorized or unauthorized; and a listing of the state in which each crime took place. The bill would safeguard the integrity of continuing criminal investigations and the identity of confidential informants by prohibiting the reporting of individual informant names, control numbers, or other personal identification that could reveal informant identities. The video of Congressman Lynch’s opening statement at the Oversight hearing, “Use of Confidential Informants at ATF and DEA,” is available here.
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the Ranking Member of the National Security subcommittee, sent a letter to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz calling for the committee to reassert its jurisdiction and begin a bipartisan investigation to examine reports that Russia engaged in cyberespionage to interfere with the 2016 United States presidential election. In the wake of growing concerns about the ability of the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee to conduct an impartial investigation, Congressman Lynch called on the Oversight Committee to initiate a bipartisan investigation to restore the credibility of the House of Representatives in examining this critical issue. “We owe it to the American people to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the cyberattacks during the recent presidential election. The faith in our electoral process and democratic institutions is at risk here and a thorough, competent oversight investigation will help ensure the integrity and security of future American elections,” said Congressman Lynch. “Chairman Nunes’ highly unusual behavior, including his decision to not disclose a visit to the White House and to cancel an upcoming open Intelligence Committee hearing, calls into question his commitment and ability to conduct this critical bipartisan inquiry.” In particular, the letter notes that under House Rules, “the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform ‘may at any time conduct investigations of any matter without regard to’ the specific jurisdiction that Rule X confers to other standing committees.” While the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence established investigation parameters including “the extent of Russian cyber-activity and other ‘active measures’ directed against the U.S. and its allies, whether ‘Russian active measures include links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns or any other U.S. Persons,’ and the appropriateness of the U.S. response to Russian active measures,” Chairman Nunes’ recent actions raise concerns about his commitment to these investigative responsibilities. Congressman Lynch first sent a letter in December of 2016 to Oversight Chairman Chaffetz calling for a bipartisan Oversight investigation to examine reports that Russia engaged in cyberespionage targeting the U.S. to interfere with the 2016 presidential election. Congressman Lynch and Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings spoke out about Republican inaction to initiate an investigation during a February Oversight hearing. Congressman Lynch also joined Ranking Member Cummings on multiple letters calling for investigations into General Michael Flynn’s contacts with Russian officials. In addition, Congressman Lynch is an original cosponsor of H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which creates an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. The bipartisan legislation has 198 cosponsors. Downloads » Rep. Lynch Letter to Chairman Chaffetz, April 3, 2017
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement on the so-called American Health Care Act: “House Republican leadership and President Trump hastily pushed this legislation forward without public hearings and with very limited debate. We heard loud and clear from the families we represent that Trumpcare would put their access to healthcare at risk. Trumpcare did not have working families, children, Americans with disabilities, or seniors in mind. Trumpcare would have been a disaster for Massachusetts – potentially jeopardizing coverage for nearly 500,000 Massachusetts residents and costing the Commonwealth nearly $2 billion in federal funding. It would have destroyed Medicaid as we know it and taken funds that seniors depend on from the Medicare Trust Fund. Trumpcare would have defunded Planned Parenthood – putting women’s access to preventative health services, cancer screenings and contraception at risk. House Republicans were focused on tax cuts for the richest Americans, while pushing the cost of healthcare onto middle-income earners and the states. And to make matters worse, they would have dropped Medicaid coverage for substance abuse and mental health services, threatening efforts to address the opioid abuse epidemic across the country. We still need to make high quality healthcare more affordable and accessible for all Americans; Trumpcare would have done the opposite. Since Republican leadership pulled the bill from floor consideration, I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will now take into account how the American people have reacted to their so-called plan and I call for a sincere, bipartisan effort to make needed improvements to the Affordable Care Act.”
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the United States Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C., for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. The annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions and all entries must be received by Friday, April 28, 2017. Entries can be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Quincy, or Brockton offices and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. For more information on the competition, please contact the office at (617) 428-2000 or visit the website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition. “We have some wonderfully gifted and talented artists among the high school students in our Congressional District. I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had 14 outstanding entries, and I am so proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Jailton Teixeira of Brockton, representing our District in Washington, D.C. The judges praised his piece, ‘Future,’ for its wonderful draftsmanship with great attention to detail and a strong narrative. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), joined by Congressman John Katko (R-NY-24), Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA-04), and Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA-03), introduced H.R. 1442, the Public Service Federal Eligibility Protection Act of 2017. In the wake of President Donald Trump’s government-wide hiring freeze, returning Peace Corps and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers were left concerned that the non-competitive service eligibility they earned in service to our nation and the international community will be expended during the indefinite freeze. H.R. 1442 would simply extend non-competitive eligibility for these individuals by the amount of days that the hiring freeze is in place. “From mentoring students in the City of Boston through the Boston Cares AmeriCorps VISTA program to improving medical education in Tanzania and Uganda under the Peace Corps Global Health Service Partnership, we are thankful for the service of Americans who choose to dedicate years of their lives to helping those in need in the United States and around the world. When these volunteers return home and consider their next chapter, continuing their public service by working in the federal government should be one option they can consider,” said Congressman Lynch. “These volunteers earned their hiring status through their public service and we should not let their non-competitive eligibility expire because a federal hiring freeze is in place. H.R. 1442 will fix this problem affecting returning volunteers across the country and I am thankful to have the support of my colleagues on this legislation.” H.R. 1442 is endorsed by the House Peace Corps Caucus, of which Congressman Kennedy and Congressman Garamendi are co-chairs. Congressman Kennedy served as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Dominican Republic and Congressman Garamendi and his wife Patti served as Peace Corps volunteers in Ethiopia. In addition, H.R. 1442 is supported by the National Peace Corps Association. “Peace Corps Volunteers serve our nation with distinction, and the longstanding one-year allowance of non-competitive eligibility is one of the few benefits they receive for their service,” said National Peace Corps Association President and CEO Glenn Blumhorst. “Through non-competitive eligibility, the federal government is able to prioritize hiring of Returned Peace Corps Volunteers—patriotic, service-oriented Americans who can immediately contribute high-quality skills and policy input to their jobs. We are grateful to Representatives Lynch and Katko for recognizing that the non-competitive eligibility benefit should not be lost during current and future periods when a freeze on federal hiring is implemented.” In particular, H.R. 1442 cites the Presidential Memorandum issued by President Trump on January 23, 2017, which prevents “a department or agency of the Federal Government from filling vacant Federal civilian employee positions or creating new such positions.” With the hiring freeze in place, returning Peace Corps and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers are unable to use their non-competitive eligibility due to the lack of jobs in the federal workforce. After fully completing their public service, Peace Corps and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers are awarded this special hiring status, active for one year beginning on the date of completion of service. H.R. 1442 will ensure that these volunteers are able to use the full 12 months they earned.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) led 23 House Democrats on a letter to President Donald Trump calling for an exemption for veterans from the President’s government-wide hiring freeze. With veterans representing 30% of our federal workforce and new hires at federal agencies nationwide, returning service men and women are disproportionately affected by the President’s executive action. The federal hiring freeze has indefinitely halted the progress made in ensuring that those who have served in defense of our nation receive opportunities to transition to civilian life that are commensurate with their sacrifice. In addition to calling for executive action to exempt America’s veterans, Congressman Lynch introduced legislation last month, H.R. 1001, the Veterans Federal Hiring Protection Act, which would exempt America’s veterans from the federal hiring freeze and allow federal agencies to continue to hire returning service men and women. “Congress and the federal government must work together to improve the quality of care and employment opportunities for the men and women who dutifully served our country. A hiring freeze does the opposite by closing the doors of the federal government, our nation’s largest single employer of veterans, to our returning service members,” said Congressman Lynch. “President Trump’s misguided executive action is freezing out our dedicated veterans from entering the federal workforce. We are calling on President Trump to exempt veterans from the hiring freeze and live up to his promise that “veterans have delivered for this nation, and now we must deliver for them.’” In particular, Congressman Lynch’s letter notes “America’s veterans currently represent 30.9% of our federal workforce nationwide, or approximately 623,755 out of 2,016,325 employees…Veterans’ employment in the Federal Government has also risen considerably in recent years. While federal agencies reported 65,030 veteran new hires and a veteran new hire percentage of 28.3% in Fiscal Year 2011, they recently reported 71,867 veteran new hires and an increased veteran new hire percentage of 32.5%.” With a rising unemployment rate among the newest generation of veterans, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, it is imperative that the federal government is working to increase job opportunities for our nation’s veterans. The letter is signed by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Bill Keating (D-MA), David Scott (D-GA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (D-GA), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Alma S. Adams (D-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), and Eliot L. Engel (D-NY). The text of the letter is available here. The text of H.R. 1001, the Veterans Federal Hiring Protection Act is available here. Downloads » Letter to President Trump Calling for an Exemption for Veterans from the Federal Hiring Freeze» Text of H.R. 1001, the Veterans Federal Hiring Protection Act
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions should resign immediately. It is deeply troubling that he repeatedly lied under oath when questioned about his contacts with Russia. It is clear that by his false and perjurious statements during his confirmation hearing that he has rendered himself unfit to serve as our nation’s chief law enforcement officer. The Russian hacking and interference in the 2016 election threatens the integrity of our democratic process. I have previously and repeatedly called for a formal investigation into the Russian interference. I believe that Congress should immediately begin the process of appointing an independent special prosecutor on this matter.” Congressman Lynch first sent a letter in December of 2016 to Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz calling for a bipartisan investigation to examine reports that Russia engaged in cyberespionage targeting the United States to interfere with the 2016 U.S. federal elections. Congressman Lynch and Ranking Member Cummings spoke out about Republican inaction to initiate an investigation during a recent Oversight hearing. Congressman Lynch also joined Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah Cummings on multiple letters calling for investigations into General Michael Flynn’s contacts with Russian officials. In addition, Congressman Lynch is an original cosponsor of H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which creates an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. The bipartisan legislation has 198 cosponsors.
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and Congressman John Culberson (R-Houston) reintroduced H.R. 1220, legislation establishing the Adams Memorial Commission to design and construct a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his family’s legacy in Washington, D.C. President John Adams served the United States as the second President, the first Vice President, a diplomat, a defender of due process, and a Founding Father. President Adams and his family dedicated their lives to the ideals and values upon which our country was founded. President Adams was the first President to reside in the District of Columbia and occupy the President’s House, now known as the White House. Yet, there is no memorial in Washington, D.C. dedicated to President Adams and his family’s legacy. “By honoring President John Adams and the Adams family with a memorial in our nation’s capital, we will ensure these dedicated public servants are recognized for their remarkable role in the founding of our country,” said Congressman Lynch. “H.R. 1220 will establish this long overdue memorial and complement the important work the Adams Memorial Foundation has accomplished over the years. I thank Congressman Culberson and our colleagues for their bipartisan support of this important initiative to rightfully honor the Adams’ family in Washington, D.C.” “President John Adams’ commitment to freedom shaped the nation we know and love today. His legacy lives on in America’s founding principles, and this monument honoring his legacy is long overdue. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Lynch to pay tribute to one of our nation’s most influential Founding Fathers,” said Congressman Culberson. “The Adams Memorial Foundation once again thanks Representatives Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and John Culberson (R-TX) for their continuing bipartisan support of this important effort to establish a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy as a Founding Father of our nation. This important legislation will establish the Adams Memorial Commission, composed of appointees by the President and Congress, to build upon the work of the Adams Memorial Foundation in designing and constructing a long overdue memorial of which all Americans can be proud,” said Ben Adams, President of the Adams Memorial Foundation. In particular, the bipartisan Adams Memorial Commission will be composed of four presidential appointees, four members of the United States Senate, and four members of the United States House of Representatives. The Commission is required to report its recommendations for the nature, location, design, and construction of the memorial to the President and Congress at the earliest date possible and will report annually on its progress. H.R. 1220 is co-sponsored by U.S. Representatives Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Steve Chabot (OH-01), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Bill Keating (MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Richard E. Neal (MA-01), and Niki Tsongas (MA-03).
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and Congressman Peter T. King (R-New York) introduced H.R. 1037, A Bill to Establish a National EMS Memorial. Each year, the 850,000 first responders of the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) answer more than 30 million calls serving 22 million patients in need of life-saving care at a moment’s notice without reservation. The men and women of the EMS are our country’s first line of defense in the prevention and mitigation of risk from terrorist attacks, man-made incidents, and natural disasters. This bipartisan legislation creates a National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work on federal land in the District of Columbia to honor the ongoing commitment and sacrifice of the EMS members across the country. “Americans rely on the courage and selfless sacrifice of the men and women of the Emergency Medical Services. I deeply appreciate their commitment to maintaining safety and security in our country. We cannot forget the risks that these first responders face from high injury rates to more than 600 professionals who gave their lives protecting their communities,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am proud to introduce H.R. 1037alongside my friend, Pete King of New York, in order to honor the members of the EMS and memorialize the sacrifice made by first responders and their loved ones.” “The men and women of EMS put their lives on the line to save our families and loved ones. Unfortunately, too many of these heroes have made the ultimate sacrifice. I am proud to work with Congressman Lynch to make sure the EMS community is given the proper memorial to recognize their sacrifice and commitment,” said Congressman King. In particular, H.R. 1037 authorizes the National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work recognizing the commitment and service represented by the EMS under the Commemorative Works Act. The legislation notes that “the scope of responsibility assumed by the men and women of the Emergency Medical Services is broad and unique and their sacrifice and commitment in service to our Nation are deserving of a commemorative work that recognizes such.” “As a nation we rely on the men and women of EMS to respond to every one of our calls without hesitation. We know that our lives mean something to them, so much so that they are willing to give up their own to help us. We cannot ignore or forget the commitment, service and sacrifice of those who would give so much for others. All we want is to let them know that their lives mean something to us,” said Katie Orsino, Executive Director of the National EMS Memorial Foundation. H.R. 1037 is cosponsored by Representatives Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Denny Heck (D-WA), Katherine M. Clark (D-MA), Timothy J. Walz (D-MN), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), William R. Keating (D-MA), and Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA).
02.13.2017	In response to President Trump’s misguided freeze on hiring for federal jobs, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) introduced H.R. 1001, the Veterans Federal Hiring Protection Act of 2017. With veterans making up more than 30% of the federal workforce and new hires at the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Transportation, and other agencies nationwide, America’s returning service men and women will be disproportionately affected by the President’s action. Congressman Lynch’s legislation would exempt America’s veterans from the hiring freeze and ensure that the federal government will not close its doors to veterans when it comes to employment. H.R. 1001 has been endorsed by the American Legion and Disabled American Veterans and is cosponsored by 21 Members of Congress. “Our dedicated service men and women fought to protect our freedoms and defend our homeland. We are grateful for their service and thankful when veterans return home and choose to continue their public service by entering the federal workforce. President Trump’s federal hiring freeze not only hurts everyday Americans seeking a prompt response from a federal agency, but also makes it difficult for veterans looking for employment in the federal government across the country. Veterans have earned their hiring preference and I am deeply concerned that the federal hiring freeze will disproportionately hurt America’s veterans,” said Congressman Lynch. According to the most recent report issued by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) on “Employment of Veterans in the Federal Executive Branch,” the approximately 632,000 veterans working throughout the federal government currently represent 30.9% of the entire federal workforce. OPM also reports that veterans’ employment in the federal government is on the rise. In Fiscal Year 2015, federal agencies hired approximately 6,000 more veterans over the previous year for a total of 71,000 new veteran hires and a veteran new hire percentage rate of 32.5%. According to OPM, 31,616 of veteran new hires for Fiscal Year 2015 were disabled veterans, including 21,215 veterans with a disability rating of 30% or more. In particular, H.R. 1001, the Veterans Federal Hiring Protection Act of 2017, provides that notwithstanding President Trump’s memorandum or any similar executive actions, federal agencies may continue to fill vacant federal civilian jobs and create new positions for veterans and veterans preference-eligible individuals as defined in 5 U.S.C. § 2108 (3). H.R. 1001 is cosponsored by Reps. Kurt Schrader, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Ted W. Lieu, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Tim Ryan, Juan Vargas, Sheila Jackson Lee, Earl Blumenauer, Jacky Rosen, Chellie Pingree, Tony Cárdenas, Carolyn B. Maloney, David Cicilline, Tom O’Halleran, Gregory W. Meeks, Judy Chu, Alma S. Adams, Alcee L. Hastings, Tulsi Gabbard, and Suzanne Bonamici, and Carol Shea-Porter. Last month, Congressman Lynch led a letter to President-elect Trump in opposition to his federal hiring freeze proposal. Congressman Lynch, along with 106 of his House colleagues, raised strong concerns that a government-wide hiring freeze would decrease transparency, efficiency, and accountability in the federal government. Congressman Lynch is also a cosponsor of H.R. 696, legislation introduced by Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) to exempt the Department of Veteran Affairs from the federal hiring freeze.
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Every 20 minutes, someone in America dies from an opioid overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In an effort to combat the drug abuse epidemic and continue life-saving efforts across the country, Congressman Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.) re-launched the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The Caucus was first initiated in 2010 to raise awareness on the federal level about drug abuse and to design effective policy solutions for treatment, prevention, education, law enforcement and research. "Collaborative efforts combining education, treatment, drug courts and promoting partnerships at the local, state and federal level have helped communities in Massachusetts tackle opioid abuse. However, more work is needed to halt the devastating cycle of prescription drug abuse and help families in the 8th District and across the country who have loved ones struggling with addiction. I am proud to work alongside my friend, Congressman Rogers, to re-launch the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. It is critical for Members of Congress to work on a bipartisan basis to address the challenges of opioid abuse," said Congressman Lynch. The United States consumes 75% of the world's painkillers, and yet Americans constitute only 5% of the world's population. “We have seen the prescription drug abuse and heroin epidemic sweep across the nation, from the hills of Eastern Kentucky to downtown Boston and coast to coast. There is no part of our nation unscathed by the deadly and devastating clutch of addiction,” said Congressman Rogers, who co-founded the Caucus in 2010. “However, we know there is hope for recovery. We’ve seen lives saved and families reunited in every community, thanks to the collaboration of leaders at the local, state and federal levels. That’s why my friend, Congressman Lynch, and I have joined together to continue the work of this important Caucus.” Since the Caucus first launched seven years ago, Members have worked on a bipartisan basis to secure critical funding and improve federal policies. For example, co-chairs Rogers and Lynch worked tirelessly to ban the powerful painkiller Zohydro ER until the drug was made available in an abuse deterrent form. Additionally, the Caucus has addressed issues from neonatal abstinence syndrome in infants, to high rates of substance abuse among military veterans and funding for drug courts across the country. The successful work of the Caucus is highlighted each year at the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia, which is the largest annual gathering of professionals from across the country to discuss the multi-faceted challenges of the public health crisis, as well as effective solutions.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will hold a Town Hall forum, “Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights,” at Milton High School. Congressman Lynch released the following statement: “In the wake of President Trump’s recent executive orders, there has been a large volume of urgent requests for information and assistance from across our District. In order to provide a full opportunity to address those concerns and discuss the many outstanding issues with residents and families in the 8th Congressional District, we are conducting a Town Hall forum. On Friday, February 3, our Town Hall forum, ‘Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights,’ will be held at Milton High School. The Town Hall will be an opportunity for constituents to come together to discuss the legal implications of President Trump’s executive actions, to discuss what can be done to resist any infringements of Constitutional rights and discuss existing and ongoing efforts to ensure safety in our homeland, and to provide resources for those who may need assistance.” Congressman Lynch will hold a media availability from 6:30 PM to 7:00 PM ahead of the Town Hall forum. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Town Hall forum, “Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights” WHEN: Friday, February 3, 7:00 PM to 9:00 PM WHERE: Milton High School Auditorium, 25 Gile Road, Milton, MA 02186
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, February 3, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will hold a Town Hall forum, “Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights,” at Milton High School for residents of the 8th Congressional District. Congressman Lynch released the following statement: “In the wake of President Trump’s recent executive orders, there has been a large volume of urgent requests for information and assistance from across our District. In order to provide a full opportunity to address those concerns and discuss the many outstanding issues with residents and families in the 8th Congressional District, we are conducting a Town Hall forum. On Friday, February 3, our Town Hall forum, ‘Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights,’ will be held at Milton High School. The Town Hall will be an opportunity for constituents to come together to discuss the legal implications of President Trump’s executive actions, to discuss what can be done to resist any infringements of Constitutional rights and discuss existing and ongoing efforts to ensure safety in our homeland, and to provide resources for those who may need assistance.” Congressman Lynch will hold a media availability from 6:30 PM to 7:00 PM ahead of the Town Hall forum. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Town Hall forum, “Keeping America Safe While Preserving Our Constitutional Rights” WHEN: Friday, February 3, 7:00 PM to 9:00 PM WHERE: Milton High School Auditorium, 25 Gile Road, Milton, MA 02186
01.25.2017	BOSTON, MA – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), joined by members of the bipartisan Quiet Skies Caucus, introduced H.R. 598, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2017. As communities across the country continue to face increasing levels and durations of airplane noise, Congressman Lynch and his colleagues introduced the AIM Act to ensure that the health impacts of airplane overflights are thoroughly examined. The AIM Act will ensure that strong, independent research into the health impacts of prolonged exposure to airplane noise and emissions is available to inform the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) decision-making going forward. With the adoption of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation system, hundreds of flights per day are guided with laser-like precision over narrow flight paths. While the RNAV procedures of the NextGen system can increase efficiency, the neighborhoods lying beneath flight paths experience extended periods of aircraft noise and exposure to air pollutants, raising health implications and negatively impacting the quality of life for local families. “I am very pleased to reintroduce the AIM Act because I hear every day from local families in Milton, Hull, South Boston, and other communities in the 8th District about the direct impact that concentrated and relentless airplane noise has on their quality of life. The FAA must put airplane-related health impacts above jet fuel economy as they try to optimize flight path efficiency. This public health study will help promote a healthier environment for the people who live and work near Logan Airport and other airports around the country,” said Congressman Lynch. “The Quiet Skies Caucus will be working hard to make oversight of the FAA and the impacts of airplane noise a top priority. The AIM Act is an important step towards ensuring that local communities are heard and the FAA is held accountable for its policies.” H.R. 598, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2017 has 18 original cosponsors including Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Katherine M. Clark (MA-05), Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08), Donald S. Beyer (VA-08), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Grace Meng (NY-06), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-09), Scott Peters (CA-52), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Kathleen M. Rice (NY-04), and Thomas R. Suozzi (NY-03). “New flight paths implemented under the FAA’s NextGen program have generated alarming and untenable increases in noise impacts across my entire Congressional District. I consistently hear from constituents who are impacted daily and are concerned about air pollution and other negative health impacts of airplane overflights,” said Congresswoman Eshoo. “This legislation goes to the heart of this issue, ensuring there will be scientific data developed and measured to assess the NextGen program and its effect on my constituents.” “Having grown up less than a mile from Midway Airport in Chicago, I know that airplane noise can be extremely frustrating,” Congressman Lipinski said. “With new flight paths having been implemented into and out of Midway and other airports, the AIM Act is critical in helping us address the impact of these changes on people who live and work near our busy airports.” “Better understanding the health impacts of prolonged exposure to airplane noise is critical, and it would be a vital tool in our efforts to combat excessive aircraft noise over our communities,” said U.S. Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY), a founder and Co-Chair of the Quiet Skies Caucus. “We must pursue all legislative remedies that seek to mitigate the impact of noise and pollution caused by airplanes, and this legislation would take a major step towards that goal. I thank Congressman Lynch for introducing this important bill.” “The persistent noise pollution many of my constituents in Chicago face every day is not only a source of major aggravation but also a serious public health concern that requires immediate action supported by sound science,” said Rep. Quigley (IL-05). “I am proud to co-sponsor the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act, which will address air contamination and the impacts of noise caused by airplane overflights. This bill will help enhance the quality of life and improve the health of residents living near airports across the country.” “I look forward to working with all stakeholders to reduce aircraft and helicopter noise for the residents of Queens and along the North Shore of Long Island,” said Congressman Suozzi. “This legislation will help all stakeholders better understand the health impacts of prolonged exposure to aircraft noise which all parties can use to work towards reaching the goal of reduced noise pollution and getting things done.” In particular, the AIM Act requires the FAA Administrator to enter into an agreement with a reputable and independent school of public health to conduct a study of the health impacts of airplane flights on residents exposed to a range of noise and air pollution levels from such flights, including asthma exacerbation, sleep disturbance, stress, and elevated blood pressure. The study will focus on residents living partly or wholly within the land area underneath the flight paths most frequently used by aircraft flying including during takeoff or landing at an altitude lower than 10,000 feet. It will consider only those health impacts that manifest during the physical implementation of the NextGen RNAV program. In addition, the AIM Act mandates that the study will focus on residents in Boston, Chicago, New York, the Northern California Metroplex region, Phoenix, and up to three additional cities. These five areas have noticed a distinct change in flight paths and sharp shifts in airplane noise as a result of the NextGen flight system. The Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus seeks to raise awareness of the impact of aircraft noise, hold the FAA accountable to the concerns of local communities, and find meaningful legislative and administrative solutions to reduce airplane noise. The caucus consists of members of Congress from across the country whose constituents are severely impacted by the FAA’s NextGen flight system. Congressman Lynch and the members of the Quiet Skies Caucus are strong advocates for robust community engagement between the FAA and communities surrounding local airports. In December of 2015, Congressman Lynch held a public forum with representatives from the FAA, Massport, and other local elected officials in order to provide concerned residents with an in person opportunity to be heard. Nearly 600 people attended the three and half hour public forum in Milton to share the impact that concentrated airplane flight paths have on their daily lives. In October of 2016, the FAA and Massport signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to address aircraft noise concerns at Logan Airport. Congressman Lynch and Congressman Capuano also agreed to become signatory parties to the MOU in order that they may have legal standing to intervene on behalf of affected cities and towns if the FAA or MassPort breaches its obligation to improve local conditions as they consider strategies that may reduce noise and improve the quality of life for local communities. Congressman Lynch first introduced the AIM Act in the 114th Congress. The text of H.R. 598, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2017 is available here. Downloads » Text of H.R. 598, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2017
01.23.2017	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security subcommittee, wrote to President Donald J. Trump calling for an operational bipartisan Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Currently, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board consists of only two members, has no chairman, and lacks the quorum necessary to do its work. Congressman Lynch urged the President to appoint a full membership to the Board so it can fulfill its critical mission to conduct robust oversight of United States counterterrorism policies and programs in the shared interest of national security and the protection of privacy and civil liberties. “The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board plays a critical role in protecting Americans’ privacy and civil liberties and ensuring the counterterrorism programs we have in place play an essential role in promoting our national security. President Trump should act swiftly to nominate a full Board so it can continue its important work to increase transparency and accountability for key counterterrorism policies and implement safeguards against unwarranted governmental intrusion on privacy and civil liberties,” said Congressman Lynch. In particular, the letter cites the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, which states that the Board “must consist of a full-time chairman and four additional members, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate for non-concurrent six year terms. No more than three members can represent the same political party. In order to initiate investigations and policy reviews, conduct official business, and hold public hearings, the Board is required to maintain a quorum of at least three members. Moreover, only the Board chairman is authorized to appoint staff.” The letter notes that as of January 2017, “the Board consists of only two members, both of whom represent the same political party and one whose term is scheduled to expire at the end of the month. As a result, the Board cannot satisfy the quorum necessary to do its job and will remain unable to carry out its responsibilities absent the nomination and confirmation of new members.” Congressman Lynch highlighted a recent Politico report by Adam Klein of the bipartisan Center for a New American Security, which emphasizes the need for the government to both protect both national security and civil liberties. Klein notes that “a functioning credible independent board is good for the intelligence community” and the American public’s privacy. In addition, the letter notes Klein’s statement that “the board’s reports can help legitimize controversial programs and prove to skeptical allies that the U.S. prioritizes privacy protections. By contrast, a defunct board would be an embarrassing eyesore on the oversight landscape, degrading U.S. credibility and fueling skepticism abroad.” The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board most notably conducted a comprehensive review of the National Security Agency’s bulk telephone records program in 2013. In its final report, the Board concluded that the program demonstrated a limited counterterrorism value while also lacking a viable legal foundation and implicating First and Fourth Amendment constitutional concerns. The Board recommended that the government terminate the program, which proved instrumental as Congress sought to develop meaningful surveillance reform legislation and ultimately enacted the landmark USA Freedom Act on a bipartisan basis in June of 2015. Congressman Lynch voted for the USA Freedom Act, when it passed the House by a vote of 338-88. The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Congressman Lynch's Letter to President Trump on Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, January 23, 2017
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the gas leak on Friday, January 6 at Spectra Energy’s gas metering station in Weymouth, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) continues to press the company for details on the public health effects as well as the company’s safety and response protocol as a result of this incident. Earlier this week, Congressman Lynch sent a letter to Spectra Energy signed by Mayor Robert Hedlund, State Senator Patrick O’Connor, State Representative Ronald Mariano, and State Representative James Murphy requesting that representatives of Spectra address the Weymouth Town Council. “Local families deserve a full accounting of last week’s gas leak. Residents detected this leak and they need to know how Spectra will prevent this from happening again in the future. Public safety and public health are at risk here and Spectra is certainly not making Weymouth and surrounding communities feel secure about the current metering station or the proposed compressor station,” said Congressman Lynch. Spectra responded to the letter from Congressman Lynch and local elected officials stating that they will attend a Town Council meeting. Congressman Lynch and Weymouth Town Councilor Becky Haugh promptly visited the site of the gas leak on Saturday, January 7 – hours after the incident – to monitor the situation. Congressman Lynch spoke to representatives from Spectra Energy, the Weymouth Fire Department, and local elected officials in Weymouth, Braintree, and Quincy about the gas leak. Following the walkthrough, Congressman Lynch and Town Councilor Haugh requested a full report on the leak from Spectra Energy to area residents as soon as possible.
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) sent a letter to President-elect Donald Trump requesting he reconsider his proposal to implement a so-called “federal hiring freeze” across the federal government. Congressman Lynch, along with 106 of his House colleagues, raised strong concerns that President-elect Trump’s proposed government-wide hiring freeze would decrease transparency, efficiency, and accountability in the federal government. “Mr. Trump’s plan will merely increase the number of private contractors and negatively affect the traditional federal employees who keep our agencies running. There is no question that we need to reduce costs within our government, but a hiring freeze will do the opposite,” said Congressman Lynch. “From protecting our national security to providing healthcare to veterans, Americans depend on federal employees each and every day. We should be strengthening the federal workforce by increasing efficiency and ensuring agencies are fulfilling their missions, rather than implementing a devastating hiring freeze that will increase backlogs, decrease the quality of service, and raise contracting costs,” Congressman Lynch added. In particular, the letter highlights a Government Accountability Office (GAO) audit report, entitled “Recent Government-Wide Hiring Freezes Prove Ineffective in Managing Federal Employment,” which reviewed a series of hiring freezes implemented during the Carter and Reagan Administrations. These hiring freezes merely provided an “illusion of control” over federal workforce levels, but were “not an effective means of controlling federal employment.” The report also notes that hiring freezes disrupted vital agency operations and diminished federal oversight of agency programs. In addition, the letter notes that it is critically important that the federal government closes mission-critical skills gaps in areas such as cybersecurity, science, technology, engineering, and other key trades. With approximately one third of full time federal workers eligible to retire by 2019, it is even more imperative that the federal government act quickly to hire employees with expertise in these areas, rather than halt hiring altogether. President-elect Trump’s federal hiring freeze would impose additional constraints on federal agencies that are already operating under difficult budgetary limitations. Devastating sequestration cuts, related furloughs, and even a 16-day government shutdown, combined with a growing U.S. population compared to relatively stagnant federal employment levels, have strained our federal workforce in recent years. Congressman Lynch’s letter is proudly supported by the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), the American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees (AFSCME), the Federal Managers Association (FMA), the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC), the National Postal Mail Handlers Union (NPMHU), the National Rural Letter Carriers Association (NRLCA), the American Postal Workers Union (APWU), the International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF), the Senior Executives Association (SEA), the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE), the FAA Managers Association (FAAMA), the National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA), the National Association of Federal Veterinarians (NAFV), the National Weather Service Employees Organization (NWSEO), the Patent Office Professional Association (POPA), and Professional Aviation Safety Specialists (PASS). “Forbidding agencies from hiring the people they need, when they need them, to carry out the people’s work is no way to run the government. Many agencies already are operating under unofficial hiring freezes due to budget cuts, forcing federal employees to do more with less. A hiring freeze will inevitably lead to the federal government outsourcing work, which has been proven to be far more costly than federal employees doing the work. Hiring freezes also have a disproportionate impact on veterans and minorities, who make up much of the federal workforce. For every day there’s a hiring freeze, understaffed VA hospitals go without the doctors and nurses they desperately need, retirees wait in longer lines to visit their Social Security offices, and communities that depend on federal jobs for their economic survival suffer,” said AFGE National President J. David Cox Sr. “Hiring freezes, which have been tried in the past and failed, are an ineffective way to manage a workforce and control costs,” said Tony Reardon, National President of the National Treasury Employees Union. “I strongly agree with Congressman Lynch's view that a federal hiring freeze will only serve to hurt the American public. Taxpayers are demanding timely service from agencies that are already struggling to achieve their missions because of reduced budgets and staffing. In order to successfully serve the President, Congress, and the public, the federal workforce cannot be held hostage by arbitrary cuts.” Joining Congressman Lynch on the letter opposing President-elect Trump’s proposed federal hiring freeze are: Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05); Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07); Rep. Alma S. Adams (NC-12); Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03); Rep. Donald S. Beyer; Jr. (VA-08); Rep. Sanford D. Bishop; Jr. (GA-02); Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03); Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01); Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU); Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13); Rep. Robert A. Brady (PA-01); Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26); Rep. Michael E. Capuano (MA-07); Rep. Tony Cárdenas (CA-29); Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14); Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-01); Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01); Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-05); Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09); Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02); Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27); Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11); Rep. John Conyers; Jr. (MI-13); Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-07); Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-06) ; Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03); Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11); Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35); Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-14); Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11); Rep. Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11); Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15); Rep. Al Green (TX-09); Rep. Gene Green (TX-29); Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03); Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01); Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01); Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20); Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18); Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08); Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30); Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson; Jr. (GA-04); Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09); Rep. William R. Keating (MA-09); Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-06); Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05); Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06); Rep. James R. Langevin (RI-02); Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02); Rep. Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14); Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09); Rep. John Lewis (GA-05); Rep. Ted W. Lieu (CA-33); Rep. Daniel Lipinski (IL-03); Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19); Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47); Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03); Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12); Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18); Rep. Doris O. Matsui (CA-06); Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-04); Rep. James P. McGovern (MA-02); Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-05); Rep. Grace Meng (NY-06); Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06); Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10); Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32); Rep. Richard E. Neal (MA-01); Rep. Richard M. Nolan (MN-08); Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC); Rep. Beto O’ Rourke (TX-16); Rep. Bill Pascrell; Jr. (NJ-09); Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07); Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52); Rep. Collin C. Peterson (MN-07); Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-01); Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02); Rep. Stacey E. Plaskett (VI); Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05); Rep. Jamie Raskin (MD-08); Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (LA-02); Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40); Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13); Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02); Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38); Rep. John P. Sarbanes (MD-03); Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09); Rep. Adam B. Schiff (CA-28); Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03); Rep. David Scott (GA-13); Rep. José E. Serrano (NY-15); Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-08; Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09); Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15); Rep. Dina Titus (NV-01); Rep. Paul D. Tonko (NY-20); Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-03); Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51); Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07); Rep. Filemon Vela (TX-34); Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01); Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23); Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12); Rep. Peter Welch (VT); and Rep. John Yarmuth (KY-03). The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Letter to President-elect Trump on Proposed Federal Hiring Freeze
01.06.2017	Trump’s dismissive tweets are undermining our national security By Stephen F. Lynch JANUARY 06, 2017 BOSTON GLOBE In his Tweets of 140 characters or less, President-elect Donald Trump is undermining our national security by creating a schism between himself and our dedicated intelligence community. Since our country’s founding, intelligence has played a critical role in informing our military, our foreign policy, and the commander in chief. Dating back to 1777, General George Washington wrote “the necessity of procuring good intelligence is apparent…” and as President, Washington sought funding from Congress for intelligence operations. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan issued Executive Order 12333 setting forth the responsibilities of the intelligence community emphasizing “timely, accurate, and insightful information … is essential to the national security of the United States.” Reagan’s executive order notes the need for “the best intelligence possible” in order for the president to “base decisions concerning the development and conduct of foreign, defense, and economic policies, and the protection of United States national interests from foreign security threats.” We have seen time and again a strong institutional relationship between the commander-in-chief and the 17 agencies and departments that make up the intelligence community. Trust and confidence between the president and our intelligence service is paramount to the safety and security of the American people. The men and women of our intelligence agencies risk their lives to gather up-to-date and accurate information, often in hostile regions, for the purpose of enabling the president to make informed decisions on momentous issues. The discovery of Osama Bin Laden would not have been possible without years of CIA intelligence, the Obama administration’s call to authorize the raid, and the daring mission of the Navy’s Seal Team 6. All three groups worked together to kill the world’s most wanted man — one individual alone cannot replace the value of the collective input from the president, intelligence community, and military. The president-elect has been at times dismissive, petulant, and insulting to the intelligence officers and personnel who risk their lives to help our leaders make fact-based decisions. President-elect Trump claimed on Twitter that the “ ‘Intelligence’ briefing on so-called ‘Russian hacking’ was delayed until Friday, perhaps more time needed to build a case,” while the White House confirmed it was always scheduled for that date. Trump cast doubt on the CIA and FBI’s assessment that Russia had interfered in the election, telling Time magazine, “I don’t believe it. I don’t believe they interfered.” And Trump told reporters at Mar-a-Lago on New Year’s Day that an assessment of the intelligence community was “a disaster and they were wrong.” Trump has been continually skeptical of the intelligence community’s conclusions. As Director of National Intelligence James Clapper pointed out during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Thursday, “There is an important distinction here between healthy skepticism . . . and disparagement.” Meanwhile, Trump has seemingly looked benignly on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s military aggression in Crimea and in Syria. This can only encourage China’s overreaching in the South China Sea. Apparently, Trump has a whole new playbook that redefines what is in America’s and NATO’s security interests. I fully accept that, as commander in chief, Trump will have the final decision in weighing the intelligence put before him. I would hope that at the very least, those decisions would be based on facts derived from the best intelligence available. Trump needs to sit down for his briefings, build a relationship with the heads of the agencies, and gain a level of mutual respect and trust. Our commander in chief should appreciate the valuable work of the rank and file of the intelligence community who work every day in service to our country. With emerging terrorism threats from organizations like the Islamic State and Boko Haram, and volatile situations in hot spots around the globe, we need the president-elect to be ready on day one to make tough calls and safeguard our democracy. He will need to weigh the intelligence and information put before him and act quickly to protect the United States. It will be difficult to do so if he casts doubt on the experienced professionals tasked with briefing him on the active threats facing our country and our allies. If Trump’s dismissive conduct and ongoing battle with the intelligence community one tweet at a time continues, the morale and the relationship of our intelligence service will continue to suffer, along with their relationship with the incoming president. This is good news for our adversaries, but it unfortunately makes Americans and our allies less safe. US Representative Stephen F. Lynch of Massachusetts is the ranking Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) joined Congressman Peter Welch (D-Vermont) along with 30 other House Democrats to introduce H. Con. Res. 5, a resolution urging President-elect Donald J. Trump to comply with the United States Constitution and sever ties with private business in order to avoid dangerous financial conflicts of interest. “By allowing foreign governments to grant personal financial benefits directly to the President and to companies that his family owns, President-elect Trump is putting our democracy at risk. This is in blatant disregard for the Constitution and his ambivalence towards promptly addressing these troubling conflict of interest issues is a distraction from the important work that lies before us,” said Congressman Lynch. “Alexander Hamilton made it clear in the Federalist papers that a ‘weak side in republics, among their numerous advantages, is that, they afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption.’ Thankfully, Hamilton and our other Founding Fathers had the sense more than two centuries ago to safeguard our democracy from corruption with the emoluments clause which prohibits the President from accepting personal financial gain from foreign governments. Hopefully, the President-elect will abide by the Constitution and place the office of the Presidency beyond such reproach.” In particular, the Welch resolution “calls upon President-elect Donald J. Trump to follow the precedent established by prior presidents and convert his assets to simple, conflict-free holdings, adopt blind trusts managed by an independent trustee with no relationship to Donald J. Trump or his businesses, or take other equivalent measures, in order to ensure compliance with the Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution…” The resolution notes that if the President-elect does not address these conflicts before assuming office, Congress will consider the Trump organization’s business dealings with any entity owned by a foreign governmental actor as a potential violation of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause. In addition to concerns about President-elect Trump’s potential violations of the Emoluments Clause, Congressman Lynch previously raised concerns about the Trump International Hotel lease, which specifically states that “no member or delegate to Congress, or elected official of the Government of the United States or the Government of the District of Columbia, shall be admitted to any share or part of this Lease, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom…” Congressman Lynch supports a full investigation at the General Services Administration about how to best address these financial conflicts of interest to ensure there is transparency about the beneficiaries of the Trump International Hotel deal and whether there has been a breach of the lease. Downloads » Text of H. Con. Res. 5
12.20.2016	BOSTON, MA – The House Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing on Tuesday released a bipartisan report of its two-year long probe into the threat terror financing poses to the U.S. financial system. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) serves as the lead Democrat on the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. “For the last two years, the Task Force has been examining ways to improve the federal government’s approach to combatting the flow of funds to terrorist groups. This report incorporates essential components of the Task Force’s strategy to address illicit terrorist financing activity, which threatens our national security, financial system, and the international trade system. Thank you to Task Force Chairman Fitzpatrick, Vice Chairman Pittenger, Chairman Hensarling, and Ranking Member Waters for recognizing that putting a stop to terrorist financing is critical to improving our national security. I look forward to continuing to work on a bipartisan basis in the 115th Congress to codify our approach to countering terrorism financing and hopefully augmenting the number of Treasury attachés who are on the front lines of this effort,” said Congressman Lynch. “Fighting the financial war against terror demands constant innovation and vigilance. I want to commend Chairman Fitzpatrick, Ranking Member Lynch, Vice Chairman Pittenger and all members of the Task Force for their leadership and hard work to identify areas where we must upgrade and improve our nation’s ability to starve the terrorists of the financial resources they need to carry out their evil attacks. I look forward to working with Members in the coming Congress to implement their important findings,” said Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). Task Force Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) added, “For two years, including 11 hearings, our task force investigated the financial mechanisms terrorists use to fund their activities. We discovered highly critical vulnerabilities, namely federal information sharing and inter-agency coordination. The report released today will serve as a guide for the next Congress in crafting legislation to thwart terrorist groups from carrying out their vicious global operations. Combatting terror financing is a significant and often overlooked component of our national security strategy. This report signals to the next Congress and Treasury Department that we must continually evaluate and improve our response toward international terror and criminal financing.” “Over the past year, the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing has conducted critically important work to identify solutions to address 21st Century threats. In conjunction with the legislation we passed this Congress, I look forward to implementing the recommendations found in this report as we continue efforts to defeat radical Islamic terrorism,” said Vice Chair Robert Pittenger (R-NC). As a result of the hard work of its 21 members, Task Force leaders introduced several bipartisan bills aimed at addressing some of the threats its investigation identified: H.R. 5594, the “National Strategy for Combatting Terrorists, Underground, and Other Illicit Financing Act.” Sponsored by Chairman Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and co-sponsored by Reps. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), H.R. 5594 would require the President, acting through the Treasury Secretary, to develop and publish an annual whole-of-government strategy to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The bill passed the House on July 11, 2016 by voice vote. H.R. 5602, sponsored by Ranking Member Stephen Lynch (D-MA) and co-sponsored by Rep. Peter King (R-NY), requires more detailed information to be reported to the Treasury regarding certain types of transactions in a specific area for a limited amount of time. H.R. 5602 passed the House on July 11, 2016 by a vote of 356-47. H.R. 5607, the “Enhancing Treasury’s Anti-Terror Tools Act.” Sponsored by Task Force Vice Chairman Robert Pittenger (R-NC) and co-sponsored by Ranking Member Lynch (D-MA), H.R. 5607 would enhance Treasury’s anti-illicit finance tools by addressing issues that came up repeatedly in Task Force Hearings. The bill passed the House on July 11, 2016 by a vote of 362-45. H.R. 5603, the “Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Act.” Sponsored by Ranking Member Lynch (D-MA) and co-sponsored by Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA), H.R. 5603 would establish a reward program aimed at helping the U.S. identify, freeze, and, if appropriate, repatriate assets linked to foreign government corruption, which is often an enabler of terrorism. H.R. 5606, the “Anti-Terrorism Information Sharing Is Truth Act.” Sponsored by Vice Chairman Pittenger (R-NC) and co-sponsored by Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), H.R. 5606 seeks to refine “safe harbors” for the sharing of anti-terror information, reaffirming Congressional intent in existing statute that encouraging the government to share terror methodologies with banks to help them better recognize such activity. In addition to the five bills the Task Force introduced, the bipartisan report made several recommendations for further Congressional attention, including: Better interagency coordination and resource allocation; Better use of and access to information that can identify illicit finance; Adding more overseas Treasury attachés; Continued attention to helping developing countries fight illicit finance; A greater domestic and international focus on stopping trade-based money laundering; Development of a harmonized regulatory and examination procedure for nonbank financial institutions – primarily money service businesses (MSB) but also emerging value transfer technologies – to squeeze out illicit finance and provide banks the comfort necessary for them to again widely offer MSB retail account services; Development of a whole-of-government strategy to combat terror finance and other forms of financial crimes; Beneficial ownership of corporate entities; and Re-animation of the interagency Terrorist Financing Working Group. Text of the full report can be found here. Downloads » Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Report
12.15.2016	BOSTON, MA – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) sent a letter to Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Jason Chaffetz requesting the Committee commence a bipartisan investigation to examine reports that Russia engaged in cyberespionage targeting the United States to interfere with the 2016 U.S. federal elections. Congressman Lynch, the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee, highlighted that a bipartisan investigation would help address weaknesses in public and private cybersecurity in order to safeguard critical government and private institutions against cyberattacks. Congressman Lynch also requested a classified briefing regarding Russia and the elections. “I am deeply concerned about reports that Russia targeted our democratic institutions and engaged in cyberespionage in order to interfere with our federal elections. Based on the intelligence communities’ assessment, it is a matter of national security that the Oversight Committee thoroughly examines any vulnerability in our cybersecurity systems and protects both individuals and institutions from potentially devastating data breaches. The Oversight Committee owes it to the American people to conduct a transparent bipartisan investigation into these critical national security concerns,” said Congressman Lynch. In particular, Congressman Lynch’s letter notes “the grave security threat posed by Russian Government cyberoperations…most recently evidenced by U.S. Intelligence Community reports indicating that Russia sought to interfere with the 2016 U.S. federal elections. On October 7, 2016, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security issued an unprecedented joint statement expressing confidence on behalf of the U.S. Intelligence Community that the ‘Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions’ in order to ‘interfere with the US election process.’” The full text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Congressman Lynch's Letter to Chairman Chaffetz, December 14, 2016
11.28.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement regarding his endorsement of Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio for Democratic Leader: “After contemplating the course of our party’s direction over the past several years, I am proud to say that I have decided to support Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio as the next Democratic Leader in Congress. While I have enormous respect for Nancy Pelosi, I believe the Democratic Party needs to change its direction and widen its focus in order to regain the trust and support of millions of hard-working American families who are our traditional base. I believe that Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio truly understands the plight of American workers and that he can help us regain the support of lunch bucket Democrats who go out to work every morning and struggle to raise families but haven't had a raise in a long, long time. It is ironic that during a prolonged period of low wage growth for most Americans, today’s Democratic Party has failed to articulate a forceful and meaningful message to working families that we are on their side. Instead, we are perceived as a party of narrow interests supported by the elite. While Democrats have rightfully championed causes for the oppressed in our society, we have, of late, ignored the economic struggles of average American families that could unify us all in a larger cause and a shared destiny for all Americans. This last election was an epic failure and another lost opportunity. To continue with business as usual would be a betrayal of our democratic values. I honestly believe that with Tim Ryan as Democratic Leader, we can demonstrate to middle class workers that we really do care about them too. And we can tip the balance back in Democrats’ favor and build a future that includes the millions of those American workers who put the Republicans and Donald Trump into power. I also encourage my Democratic colleagues to help bring the change we need by voting for Tim Ryan for Democratic Leader.”
11.18.2016	BOSTON, MA – In the wake of the recent fatal natural gas pipeline explosion in Canton, Illinois, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) called on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to halt the permitting process and construction for the proposed Spectra pipelines in West Roxbury and Weymouth, Massachusetts. According to the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), there have been more than 220 pipeline incidents in 2016. In a letter to FERC Chairman Norman Bay, Congressman Lynch highlighted the serious public safety risks of placing a natural gas pipeline in densely populated areas such as West Roxbury and Weymouth. Today’s letter follows Congressman Lynch’s November 2, 2016 letter to FERC after the deadly pipeline explosion in Shelby County, Alabama. “I am deeply concerned about the tragic natural gas pipeline explosion in Canton, Illinois and I am repeating my call for FERC to launch comprehensive investigations into these deadly pipeline incidents. In the wake of these explosions, it is reckless for FERC to allow Spectra to proceed with the proposed projects in Weymouth and West Roxbury. We are putting countless lives at risk here and FERC needs to step in to improve safety measures to protect the public from harm,” said Congressman Lynch. On November 16, a natural gas pipeline explosion killed one Ameren Illinois employee and injured twelve people. This follows an October gasoline pipeline explosion in Shelby County, Alabama, which killed one pipeline worker and injured five others, igniting two wildfires that burned over 30 acres of land. In April, a natural gas pipeline in Salem, Pennsylvania, operated by Spectra Energy, exploded injuring one person and damaging two homes. Congressman Lynch’s letter highlights the dangerous and costly damage that pipeline explosions have inflicted on communities in 2016 alone. Congressman Lynch is calling on FERC and PHMSA to fully investigate these incidents to determine whether further safety measures need to be adopted prior to approving construction of high pressure natural gas lines in West Roxbury and Weymouth. The text of Congressman Lynch’s letter is available here. Downloads » Congressman Lynch's Letter to FERC Chairman Bay, November 18, 2016
11.02.2016	BOSTON, MA – In the wake of the recent fatal pipeline explosion in Alabama, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) called on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to halt the permitting process and construction for the proposed Spectra pipelines in West Roxbury and Weymouth, Massachusetts. In a letter to FERC Chairman Norman Bay, Congressman Lynch highlighted the serious public safety risks of placing a natural gas pipeline in densely populated areas such as West Roxbury and Weymouth. “I am deeply concerned about this week’s tragic pipeline explosion in Alabama and I believe that FERC needs to take action to ensure that proper safety measures are in place to protect local communities from the dangers of these pipelines. We are witnessing significant damage from pipeline incidents in more remote areas across the country. In the wake of these accidents, it is unimaginable that FERC would proceed with approval for pipelines in more densely populated areas,” said Congressman Lynch. According to the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), there have been more than 220 pipeline incidents in 2016. On Monday, a fatal gasoline pipeline explosion in Shelby County, Alabama killed one pipeline worker and injured five others, igniting two wildfires that burned over 30 acres of land. This is the second incident in two months for the Colonial Pipeline, which had a significant gas leak in September. In April, a natural gas pipeline in Salem, Pennsylvania, operated by Spectra Energy, exploded injuring one person and damaging two homes. “We have told FERC repeatedly that placing a natural gas pipeline in an active quarry blast zone, like West Roxbury, or in an industrial area with densely populated neighborhoods nearby, as is the case in Weymouth, are serious public safety risks. If a similar explosion took place in West Roxbury or Weymouth, we could expect mass casualties and I strongly oppose taking those risks,” Congressman Lynch added. Congressman Lynch’s letter highlights the dangerous and costly damage that pipeline explosions have inflicted on communities in 2016 alone. Congressman Lynch is calling on FERC and PHMSA to fully investigate these incidents to determine whether further safety measures need to be adopted prior to approving construction of high pressure natural gas lines in West Roxbury and Weymouth. The text of Congressman Lynch’s letter is available here. Downloads » Congressman Lynch's Letter to FERC Chairman Bay, November 2, 2016
10.28.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) announced nearly $1.7 million in federal funding for the Town of Scituate to fortify the Third Cliff seawall. The Third Cliff was damaged during Hurricane Sandy in 2012 and the federal funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will assist with foreshore protection. “The increase in ‘100 year storms’ is inflicting serious damage on our coastal communities. I have seen firsthand the costly and dangerous impacts of these storms in the coastal areas I represent including Boston, Quincy, Weymouth, Hull, Hingham, Cohasset, and Scituate. Scituate has made significant shore protection improvements in recent years and I am very pleased that the federal government can again partner with Scituate on these efforts. I am sure this federal grant funding will be welcome assistance to Scituate and will strengthen our shoreline protection from future severe storms,” said Congressman Lynch. “This long-overdue FEMA funding will make a big difference for Scituate as it works to rebuild its seawall, and for other Massachusetts communities that are still recovering from storm damage,” Senator Warren said. “I’ve remained focused on working with the congressional delegation and local officials to secure these grants and to ensure that the federal government is a good partner for our cities and towns as they mitigate and respond to disasters.” “Climate change is fueling stronger storms and more frequent flooding and we need to provide our coastal communities with the resources to adapt and respond to future storms. This federal funding will help Scituate repair and strengthen the Third Cliff Seawall and help ensure this critical protection for its shoreline. Whether it is superstorms like Sandy or winter disasters like the one that devastated Massachusetts in 2015, our cities and towns rely on funding from MEMA and FEMA, and I am pleased to see additional federal assistance coming to the Commonwealth to help our communities respond to emergencies,” said Senator Markey. The federal grant of $1,680,851.33 from FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund for the Town of Scituate will cover 75% of the total project. Scituate will use the funding to repair the Third Cliff Revetment, which was damaged during Hurricane Sandy. State Representative Jim Cantwell said, “Scituate is ground zero for issues related to coastal adaptation and response to more frequent storms. I am so grateful for the attention from Senators Warren and Markey and Congressmen Lynch and Keating to coastal issues. I am so pleased to see this initial release of significant funds following Senator Warren’s local visits to survey damage and meetings over the years to discuss full FEMA reimbursement of what is owed to our communities. I want to thank the Senator and her staff for their staunch advocacy on behalf of Scituate and Marshfield.” “This is great news for the residents of Scituate and we appreciate the efforts of Senator Warren and Senator Markey along with FEMA and so many other federal, state and local officials who worked on securing this funding,” said Scituate Town Administrator Patricia Vinchesi. “These funds will not only repair, but strengthen and reinforce revetments on Third Cliff and assist the Town in weathering future storms. Improvements for foreshore protection are extremely costly and these funds will help give us some much needed relief in addressing coastal needs along our 15 miles of shoreline.” In addition to the grant funding for the Town of Scituate, FEMA also announced $1,311,593.00 in federal funding for the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) to administer the Public Assistance Program declaration following the severe weather during the winter of 2015. Congressman Lynch and the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation have repeatedly appealed to the federal government to assist the Commonwealth of Massachusetts with additional funding for the disaster recovery efforts following the historic storms in 2015. “The record-breaking winter storms of 2015 strongly hit the budgets of cities and towns in the Eighth Congressional District. Governor Baker and I testified before FEMA strongly advocating for additional federal assistance and I am pleased that our work and the efforts of our Congressional Delegation were successful in bringing additional FEMA funding to the Commonwealth,” Congressman Lynch added.
10.17.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation sent a letter to Massachusetts Treasurer Deborah Goldberg calling for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to end any business arrangements with Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo recently paid $190 million in penalties in response to their fraudulent business practices. Employees at Wells Fargo secretly created millions of fake deposit and credit card accounts in order to receive bonuses. While Massachusetts has more limited business dealings with Wells Fargo than other states, the revelations and former Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf’s recent testimony before the House Financial Services Committee and the Senate Banking Committee raise serious questions about the company’s behavior and the risks it poses to local consumers. The letter, signed by Congressman Lynch, Congressman Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA-05), and Congressman James P. McGovern (MA-02), highlighted the Commonwealth’s long history of protecting consumers and instilling trust in the financial services sector. The delegation noted that Wells Fargo’s unethical behavior is grounds for the Treasurer’s office to curtail all financial dealings with the company. “Wells Fargo’s leadership has not been held accountable and the company has promoted a culture that led to widespread fraudulent activity with employees taking advantage of their own customers. We should not be investing taxpayer funds with a bank that has demonstrated such blatant disrespect for the privacy rights of its customers and widespread disregard for law. The Commonwealth has a proud history of advocating for everyday families and local businesses and under the leadership of Treasurer Goldberg, Massachusetts has continued to be a model across the country. We should not risk that reputation by continuing financial relationships with Wells Fargo,” said Congressman Lynch. The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Letter to Treasurer Goldberg re Wells Fargo
09.28.2016	EpiPen investigation shows need for greater pricing transparency, other reforms By Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.) September 28, 2016, 06:00 am THE HILL https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/healthcare/298077-epipen-investigation-shows-need-for-greater-pricing For months, my office has heard from families concerned about their ability to afford a device they desperately need in the event that a loved one suffers a sudden allergic reaction. Parents should not have to worry about whether they can afford an EpiPen for their children. Seniors should not be limited in access to this lifesaving device. Back in 2007, parents and seniors paid less than $100 for a two-pack of EpiPens. Now in 2016, they are faced with a price tag of over $600. When the CEO of Mylan Pharmaceuticals appeared before the House Oversight Committee last week, we sought to examine why the cost to fill an EpiPen prescription has gotten so out of hand. We weren’t fooled by the insufficient documents Mylan provided to the committee claiming that the company only makes $50 profit for each $600 two-pack. And while Mylan CEO Heather Bresch did not give a clear cut reason why prices for the EpiPen were stable until Mylan took control of the product back in 2007 and began to jack up prices year after year, she did inadvertently motivate Congress to take a step towards addressing some issues with the pharmaceutical industry that have been avoided for years. Mylan has a virtual monopoly on the EpiPen with more than 90% of the epinephrine injector market in our country. Mylan’s patent does not expire until 2025, so there is little competition in the market and even less incentive to keep prices fair. Congress must consider oversight of pharmaceutical companies’ price hikes, particularly in situations where a high price drug has little to no competition and it is difficult for other companies to get into the field. In some states, when there is a monopoly on the market, price increases have to be approved at the state level. Similarly, where Congress has created such legal monopolies for lifesaving drugs, it is fair and proper to empower the Food and Drug Administration or the Secretary of Health and Human Services to approve price hikes in those drugs. I recognize the value of companies investing in research and development, but in the case of Mylan, they have made few changes since acquiring the product and yet have continuously and dramatically raised the price. Another avenue where Congress must take action is to allow Medicare to negotiate their own drug prices directly with the pharmaceutical companies. While I doubt it was Mylan’s plan, by their blind greed, they have shown blatant disregard for the people who desperately need this medication. With a Congressionally protected monopoly for their product, there is little incentive for them to negotiate their prices. In contrast, we have seen success in drug price negotiations at the Veterans Health Administration. On a wide range of drugs, compared to the market, the VA pharmacy program has leveraged its buying power to negotiate much lower prices for more than 8.9 million veterans. Republicans and Democrats should consider the tens of billions of taxpayer dollars that could be saved if we allow the Secretary of HHS to negotiate drug prices for the 38.6 million Americans who participate in Medicare Part D. According to a recent study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, Medicare Part D spending for the EpiPen has grown by 1151% since Mylan acquired the EpiPen in 2007 until 2014. That is a substantial increase and it doesn’t even account for the nearly 74% increase in the cost of an EpiPen from $349 in 2014 to $609 in 2016. I know that families in the 8th District of Massachusetts cannot afford over $600 for a two-pack of EpiPens. And I think this is the case across the country. Regular middle class people aren’t getting access to Mylan’s supposed discounts and they can’t afford to replace EpiPens each year, as is required, at the current price. It is not merely those with an EpiPen prescription that are bearing this price increase; it is taxpayers across the country. There is a real problem when greed becomes the dominant factor and there is little attention paid to the regular families that these decisions affect. We can’t be pricing people out of the market for EpiPens and it is time for Congress to pass legislation that will address the monopoly issue, increase transparency in drug pricing, and help to control the cost of prescription drugs. In particular, the bipartisan and bicameral Fair Accountability and Innovative Research Drug Pricing Act, introduced by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), will require manufacturers to provide a justification for each prescription drug price increase, improving disclosure and providing important information to taxpayers. And the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, introduced by Baldwin and Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), will allow the Secretary of HHS to negotiate prescription drug prices on behalf of Medicare Part D beneficiaries. Drug price negotiation has successfully reduced costs for the VA and could do the same for Medicare. If drug prices continue to rise exponentially, the current system of Medicare paying top dollar on behalf of its beneficiaries will become unsustainable. The American people deserve the full picture when it comes to the pharmaceutical industry’s opaque pricing. And they should not have to worry about whether they can afford a new EpiPen to save their child’s life. Mylan’s dramatic price increases clearly demonstrate what is wrong with our healthcare system and the visceral bipartisan reaction to Mylan’s greed could be the impetus for Congress at last to step in and do its job. Rep. Lynch represents the 8th District of Massachusetts and is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the United States House of Representatives unanimously passed the bipartisan Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act under unanimous consent. S. 1004 directs the President to issue an annual proclamation calling for the United States to observe two minutes of silence on Veterans Day. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) introduced the House version of this legislation. H.R. 995 passed the House in July of 2015. The Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act calls for two minutes of silence every Veterans Day to recognize and reflect on the service and sacrifice of all veterans, past and present. The set time of 2:11 PM EST allows for all 50 states and Puerto Rico to take part simultaneously. “Our country has a responsibility to the men and women in our armed forces to honor their courageous service and sacrifice. By coming together as a nation with a moment of silence each Veterans Day, we send a powerful message of our appreciation for all veterans have done for our country,” said Congressman Lynch. “Thank you to Senators Kirk and Durbin for moving this legislation in the Senate and to the bipartisan cosponsors in the House for their support. Taking time to give thanks to members of our military is something we all can agree on.” The Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act was the inspiration of the Bendetson family: Daniel, Michael, and their father, Dr. Peter Bendetson, of Weston, Massachusetts. Congressman Lynch first introduced the Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act in 2013. S. 1004, which was introduced by U.S. Senators Mark Kirk (R-Illinois) and Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), will next go to the President for his signature to become law.
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Sunday, October 2, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will host an information session for all high school students in the Eighth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions: United States Military Academy at West Point, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT Massachusetts Maritime Academy at Buzzards Bay, MA All students and their families from the Eighth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 2, 2016 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School, 305 River Street, Braintree 02184 CONTACT: Bob Fowkes, (617) 428-2000 For those unable to attend, more information on the Service Academy nomination process is available on our website: https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA) announced that the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) will receive $4.2 million in grant funding through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Buses and Bus Facilities Competitive Grant Program. The MBTA will utilize this grant funding to help build a new Quincy Center bus terminal and make intermodal enhancements. Earlier this year, Congressman Lynch and Senators Warren and Markey strongly endorsed the MBTA and the City of Quincy’s joint grant proposal and urged Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to support this important development plan. The $4,273,771 grant will be used to help transform the Quincy Center Intermodal MBTA Station. The funding will provide an important first step toward a new bus terminal – and the larger redevelopment of the entire MBTA station – that will link with the Red Line subway, the commuter rail, and the National Park Service shuttle buses. The Quincy Center MBTA station and bus terminal is within walking distance of City Hall, the Adams National Park, Quincy College, and residential and commercial developments. The MBTA, state officials, and the City of Quincy continue to develop long-term plans for the station, including a new parking garage and the potential for a transit-oriented development on the MBTA property. “I applaud Mayor Koch, Governor Baker, Secretary Pollack, and their teams for their close collaboration on the redevelopment plan for the Quincy Center Station. The City of Quincy and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts are committed to ensuring that Quincy remains a hub for transportation throughout the South Shore. By investing in a new bus terminal, we will not only improve safety and reliability for South Shore residents, but also continue to spur investment to revitalize Quincy Center. I am proud to have worked with our congressional delegation to ensure that the Department of Transportation recognized the value of this federal investment in Quincy,” said Congressman Lynch. “This federal transportation grant is terrific news for Quincy and for the region. The new Quincy Center Bus Terminal will improve families’ transit options and help revitalize the area,” Senator Warren said. “I’m committed to making sure the federal government is a good partner for our cities and towns in Massachusetts, and that means supporting key infrastructure investments like this project. I was glad to work with state officials, the City of Quincy, and the congressional delegation to get this funding.” “Whether by train or by bus, when passengers arrive at the Quincy Center Station, they deserve a welcoming mat worthy of the great City of Quincy. With this grant, Quincy and the MBTA can begin creating a truly world class bus terminal that improves safety and reliability while spurring private investment. I thank Congressman Lynch and Secretary Pollack for their leadership in helping secure this critical federal funding,” said Senator Markey. “The Quincy Center MBTA Station is a cornerstone to the much broader revitalization of our downtown now underway, and this grant is a vital initial step toward a vibrant new transportation hub at the heart of our City. I am tremendously grateful for the team of leaders whose work together made this possible, from Congressman Lynch and Senators Markey and Warren to Governor Baker and Secretary Pollack,” said Quincy Mayor Tom Koch. Massachusetts Secretary of Transportation Stephanie Pollack said “The Baker-Polito Administration is very grateful to the Federal Transit Administration for its recognition of the importance and benefits of the Quincy Center Intermodal MBTA Station project. This grant will help us and our partners in Quincy jump-start the redevelopment of the station and air rights. Mayor Koch and our congressional delegation are to be commended for their advocacy for the grant and the project as a whole. We are proud to have worked with them and look forward to the continued partnership as we plan, fund and construct the full project.” In 2015, Congress passed the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which authorized the Federal Transit Administration’s competitive Bus and Bus Facilities Grant Program through 2020. The FAST Act provided an 89% increase in funding for buses and bus facilities, in addition to targeted competitive grants. For Fiscal Year 2016, the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded nearly $211 million in grants to improve bus service nationwide.
09.01.2016	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) called on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to hold a hearing to examine Mylan’s pricing practices after the dramatic cost increase for the EpiPen. The EpiPen is used to administer epinephrine, which treats life-threatening allergic reactions. Mylan has a virtual monopoly on epinephrine auto-injectors and increased the retail price for a two-pack of the EpiPen from less than $100 in 2007 to more than $600 in 2016. “Families in the 8th Congressional District have raised concerns about the cost to fill EpiPen prescriptions. Parents should not have to worry about whether they can afford epinephrine for their children. Seniors should not be limited in access to this lifesaving drug. These skyrocketing prescription drug prices are unacceptable and we need ensure there is thorough oversight of pharmaceutical companies,” said Congressman Lynch. “The Oversight Committee must promptly examine the burdensome cost increase of the EpiPen in addition to other issues affecting cost and access to prescription drugs.” In particular, Congressman Lynch’s letter notes that while Mylan announced the introduction of a generic form and coupons to help patients cope with the increased cost, the company has not committed to lowering the price for the EpiPen. Without lowering the price, patients and taxpayers will continue to bear the exorbitant cost of the EpiPen, while Mylan continues to profit. The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Lynch Calls for Oversight Hearing on Dramatic Price Increase for EpiPens
08.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Massachusetts Congressional delegation is urging U.S. House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith to cease House Republicans’ blatant abuse of congressional subpoena authority in an effort to deny the causes of global climate change. In July, Smith issued subpoenas to Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, and eight environmental organizations, claiming that a coordinated environmentalist plot exists to deprive corporations of their First Amendment rights. The attorneys general are investigating whether Exxon Mobil Corporation violated state fraud laws by intentionally misleading the public—including investors—with respect to the impacts of climate change on its business. In a letter demanding an end to the Republicans’ overreaching subpoenas, the Massachusetts delegation asserted that such abuse of authority was unprecedented and maintained that it “plainly infringes upon state law functions and oversteps the jurisdiction granted to Congress in the Constitution.” The delegation wrote: “State and federal courts – not Congressional Committees – are the proper arbiters of legal disputes between state attorneys general and private corporations. Congressional subpoenas should not be used as a vehicle for misguided and likely unconstitutional political tactics that could permanently harm the reputation of this body and undermine states’ abilities to carry out necessary functions. “The Science Committee lacks jurisdiction over any of the relevant issues raised in this case, including state securities laws and your purported concerns about the ‘First Amendment rights of companies.’ The dispute in question is not a scientific one; it is a legal question about whether Exxon misled its investors and consumers. This dispute has no relevance to the Science Committee or its legislative or oversight jurisdiction.” The text of the letter is available here. Downloads » MA Delegation Letter to Lamar Smith Final Signed.pdf
08.02.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee, called on House and Senate leadership to reconvene Congress in order to address the emergency Zika virus funding request submitted by President Obama in February. With the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate scheduled to be out of session until early September, it is a national security and public health concern that federal, state, and local agencies will not have the resources necessary to undertake a comprehensive strategy to combat the global Zika epidemic. “There is no time for delay in addressing this growing national security and public health crisis. With the tropical storm/hurricane season approaching Florida, with travel-related Zika infections on the rise and risk of active transmission in the U.S. growing, Congress must take action to ensure that resources are available for agencies at the federal, state, and local level to prevent the spread of Zika and improve our public health response to detect and treat Zika infections,” said Congressman Lynch. “We cannot risk waiting five more weeks for Congress to reconvene and finally have a vote on emergency funding. Leadership must act swiftly to ensure that we are not putting our states and municipalities in grave risk of a devastating outbreak of Zika infections.” In particular, Congressman Lynch’s letter notes that the Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper classified Zika “as an emerging human and global security threat that is projected to cause as many as 4 million cases in 2016 in the Western Hemisphere alone.” In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued an unprecedented travel warning on August 1, advising pregnant women not to travel to a neighborhood north of Miami, where Zika has been actively transmitted. As of last week, the CDC reported at least 1,658 Zika cases in the continental United States and Hawaii, including 52 reported cases in Massachusetts. For these reasons, Congressman Lynch called on leadership to bring Congress back into session to promptly consider the emergency funding request. Congressman Lynch is a cosponsor of H.R. 5044, legislation that provides $1.9 billion in emergency funding to respond to the Zika virus. H.R. 5044 reflects the funding levels requested by President Obama in February 2016. The text of Congressman Lynch’s letter is available here. Downloads » SFL Letter to Congressional Leadership on Zika Epidemic August.pdf
08.01.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, released a report they requested from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) finding that telework results in significant cost savings and reduced carbon dioxide emissions across federal agencies. For example: The General Services Administration reported “cost savings of $926,872 in 2015 based on telework-related reduced use of transit subsidies in comparison with 2013” and “identified telework as a contributing factor to its headquarters renovation which resulted in a 40 percent reduction in office space and $24.6 million in annual rent savings.” The Environmental Protection Agency “reported avoiding 10,791 telework-related metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions in 2014 as compared to 2011.” In 2013, the Election Assistance Commission “reported yearly rental savings of $750,000.” A survey of managers and employees at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation suggested that “telework contributed to retaining employees, work/life balance, and increased productivity.” In response, Ranking Member Cummings stated: “I am encouraged by agencies’ progress in expanding telework to more employees and reducing the barriers to telework. This report confirms that significant benefits and cost savings can be achieved through the use of telework. It is critical that the Office of Personnel Management take steps to ensure that all agencies provide cost savings estimates and supporting data going forward so we can understand the full value of telework.” “The Department of Transportation, the Defense Information Systems Agency, and other federal agencies successfully adopted programs that demonstrate telework is a valuable tool for enhancing agency productivity, improving employee retention rates, and lowering taxpayer costs. Implementation of GAO’s recommendations will enhance telework policies across the federal government, result in significant cost savings, and help further agency missions on behalf of the American public,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. The Telework Enhancement Act of 2010 set forth a framework for agencies to use in establishing and implementing telework. It required the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to assist agencies in establishing goals and report annually to Congress on agency progress, including an assessment of the impact of telework on emergency readiness, energy use, recruitment and retention, performance, and productivity. Cummings and Lynch requested this report in December 2014 to evaluate the progress and return on investment for agencies in implementing telework. GAO reported that telework “reduced employee absences, improved work/life balance, improved recruitment and retention, maintaining continuity of operations (COOP) during designated emergencies or inclement weather, reduced commuting costs/transit subsidies, increased productivity, reduced real estate costs, reduced utilities, and positive environmental impacts, such as reduced greenhouse emissions.” GAO found that “from 2011 to 2012, the number of employees eligible for telework increased from 684,589 to 1,020,034 (an increase of about 49 percent), and the number of employees that had telework agreements increased from 144,851 to 267,227 (an 84 percent increase).” GAO found that “government-wide, agencies identified fewer barriers to telework participation in 2013 than 2011. ... However, management resistance remains the most frequently reported barrier to telework.” GAO made two recommendations: (1) OPM should include costs savings questions in future calls to agencies for telework data to ensure that agencies report cost savings associated with their telework programs; and (2) OPM should provide clarifying guidance to agencies on options for developing supporting data for benefits and costs of telework programs to help agencies determine the value of such programs. OPM concurred with both recommendations. Click here to read the GAO report.
07.21.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Jason Chaffetz, Chairman of the Oversight Committee, John D. Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member of the House Committee on Judiciary, Stephen F. Lynch, and Hakeem Jeffries, introduced H. R. 5920, the Whistleblower Protections for Contractors Act, to expand whistleblower protections to additional federal contractors and grantees. “Whistleblowers are the front line of defense against waste, fraud, and abuse," the Members said. "The employees who work on federal contracts and grants see firsthand when taxpayer money is being wasted, and they must be protected against retaliation when they blow the whistle on wrongdoing. This bill makes such protections permanent and ensures more employees are covered.” H.R. 5920 is a companion bill to S. 795, introduced by Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Mo) and cosponsored by Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI), and gives subgrantees and personal services contractors the same whistleblower protections currently given to contractors, grant recipients, and subcontractors. This bill also makes existing protections permanent for civilian contractors and grantees. Click here to read the bill.
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement in response to the decision to declassify the 28 pages of the 9/11 Joint Congressional Inquiry. Congressman Lynch is a longtime advocate of full declassification after reviewing the classified document and speaking with families of victims of the September 11th terrorist attacks. In 2013, Congressman Lynch and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced a resolution calling for the President to declassify the 28 pages. H. Res. 14 has garnered support on both sides of the aisle with more than 70 bipartisan cosponsors. In June, Congressman Lynch, Congressman Jones, and Congressman Thomas Massie (R-KY) introduced H. Res. 779, which urges the House Intelligence Committee to publish the 28 pages. Last week, the members held a press conference urging swift passage of the resolution. “I am extremely pleased that these 28 pages are being released. I am especially happy for the families of the victims and the American people as a whole. Releasing the contents of the 28 pages will answer some of the many questions that remain. It may help us at last hold those who are responsible accountable. Through the passionate advocacy of victims’ families and some of my colleagues in Congress including Congressman Jones and Congressman Massie, we finally will have greater transparency about the investigation into the circumstances surrounding September 11th. I have been told by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence that the document is being forwarded to Congress with ‘light redactions.’ I am hopeful these redactions do not diminish the probative value of the report. Our national security is of the utmost importance and the contents of the 28 pages can play a critical role in informing our counterterrorism and foreign policy decisions moving forward. I extend my thanks to President Obama for initiating the review and for the decision to make these pages public.”
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) and Congressman John Culberson (TX-07) introduced H.R. 5748, To establish the Adams Memorial Commission to carry out the provisions of Public Law 107-62, and for other purposes. The Adams Memorial Commission will establish a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy in Washington, D.C. President John Adams served the United States as the second President, the first Vice President, a diplomat, a defender of due process, and a Founding Father. President Adams and his family dedicated their lives to the ideals and values upon which our country was founded. President Adams was the first President to reside in the District of Columbia and occupy the President’s House, now known as the White House. Yet, there is no memorial in Washington, D.C. dedicated to President Adams and his family legacy. “President John Adams was a remarkable leader and a steadfast public servant. Adams was one of our most influential Founding Fathers and it is a glaring oversight that there is no memorial in our nation’s capital honoring John Adams and his family and their role in shaping our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. “H.R. 5748 will reinvigorate the effort to establish this long overdue memorial and complement the important work the Adams Memorial Foundation has accomplished over the years. I thank Congressman Culberson and our colleagues for their bipartisan support of this important initiative to rightfully honor Adams in Washington, D.C.” “John Adams’ principled courage and his relentless commitment to liberty were essential to the success of the American Revolution and the creation of the United States. This monument to John Adams and the rich legacy of the Adams family is long overdue,” said Congressman Culberson. “I’m pleased to introduce this legislation with Congressman Lynch to honor our nation’s second president and his tireless efforts to create this great nation. I also want to thank the Adams Memorial Foundation for their diligence in ensuring that we honor one of America's most influential Founding Fathers.” “The Adams Memorial Foundation praises Representatives Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and John Culberson (R-TX) for introducing bipartisan legislation to establish a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy as a Founding Father of our nation. This important legislation will establish the Adams Memorial Commission, composed of appointees by the President and Congress, to build on the work of the Adams Memorial Foundation in designing and constructing a long overdue memorial we can all be proud of honoring a family that made an indelible impression on the framework of the United States,” said Ben Adams, President of the Adams Memorial Foundation. “We encourage Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to join them in this bipartisan effort.” In particular, the bipartisan Adams Memorial Commission will be composed of four presidential appointees, four members of the United States Senate, and four members of the United States House of Representatives. The Commission is required to report its recommendations for the nature, location, design, and construction of the memorial to the President and Congress at the earliest date possible and will report annually on its progress. H.R. 5748 is co-sponsored by U.S. Representatives Steve Chabot (OH-01), Bill Keating (MA-09), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Joe Kennedy (MA-04), Richard E. Neal (MA-01), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Michael E. Capuano (MA-07).
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform overwhelmingly passed two bipartisan bills to overhaul the United States Postal Service. H.R. 5714, the Postal Service Reform Act, which was cosponsored by Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Reps. Mark Meadows (R-NC), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), and Gerry Connolly (D-VA), would enhance revenue, improve efficiency, integrate Medicare, and streamline governance and oversight of the Postal Service. H.R. 5707, the Postal Service Financial Improvement Act of 2016, which was cosponsored by Reps. Lynch and David McKinley (R-WV), would authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to invest a limited amount of the Retiree Health Benefits Fund in market-based index funds and establish a Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund Investment Committee to help advise the Treasury Secretary on investments made from the Fund. Chairman Chaffetz: “This bill reflects how working in a bipartisan, collaborative manner can bring about much needed reform. The outlook for the Postal Service is grim without the improvements contained in this bill. I hope the legislation sees quick action by the full House so the Postal Service can be one step closer to a viable, solvent future.” Ranking Member Cummings: “This bill is the product of intense negotiations that have been ongoing for months, and it is the culmination of broader efforts that have been underway for years. I’m pleased that my colleagues and I were able to craft a bipartisan bill we can all support that will place the Postal Service on sustainable financial footing.” Rep. Mark Meadows: “The members on this Committee have poured countless hours into the negotiations behind these much needed reforms, and I am pleased to see the final result. The reforms included in this bill will be critical in placing the Postal Service back on a sound financial path and in avoiding an almost inevitable taxpayer bailout of the Postal Service due to insurmountable debt. I want to thank my colleagues, Chairman Chaffetz and Ranking Member Cummings, for their leadership on this important issue.” Rep. Stephen Lynch: “We have a unique opportunity to put the Postal Service on a path to a more stable financial footing and ensure a secure future for postal employees, the mailing community, and the American people who depend on this trusted government institution. It is critical to act now and make commonsense reforms if we want the Postal Service to continue to meet its universal service obligation and be able to pay its bills next year. I thank my colleagues Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, Rep. Meadows, and Rep. Connolly for their bipartisan compromise and cooperation on this important reform package.” Rep. Gerry Connolly: “The Postal Service is in dire financial shape as a result of past congressional action that has stifled its innovation and flexibility. Without these reforms, this iconic American institution would continue its downward spiral to insolvency. Our bipartisan legislation represents a delicate balance in which all parties have had to compromise, and it puts the Postal Service on more stable footing so that it remains relevant and viable in the 21st century.” Rep. David McKinley: “America’s postal workers deserve the comfort of knowing their future health benefits are not in jeopardy. This important legislation will provide the Treasury Department with the flexibility to keep the Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund (RHBF) strong, so these workers can get the health care coverage they earned for their retirement.”
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s legislation H.R. 5602 passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 356-47. H.R. 5602 expands the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network’s ability to collect information under Geographic Targeting Orders (GTOs) in order to prevent money laundering. Congressman Lynch (D-Boston) is the lead Democrat on the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. H.R. 5602 extends the anti-money laundering efforts of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). The legislation authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to include all funds when issuing certain GTOs, including funds involved in an electronic fund transfer. GTOs impose additional reporting requirements on one or more domestic financial institutions or nonfinancial businesses in a geographic area to ensure compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act. “By widening the scope of information FinCEN can collect under geographic targeting orders, we are increasing transparency in financial transactions. Whether it is money funneled from a drug cartel or a terrorist organization, FinCEN will more readily be able to identify assets being hidden in high-risk transactions, particularly illicit funds in the real estate market. As terrorist organizations become more sophisticated at money laundering, the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing is working hard to ensure that our government agencies are able to effectively respond to these national security threats and disrupt terrorist financiers,” said Congressman Lynch. “I thank Chairman Hensarling, Ranking Member Waters, Chairman Fitzpatrick, Vice Chair Pittenger, and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle for moving this critical bipartisan legislation through the House.” The bipartisan legislation was introduced by Congressman Lynch and Congressman Peter King (R-NY) on June 28, 2016. H.R. 5602 is cosponsored by Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), Task Force Chair Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Task Force Vice Chair Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Reps. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Bruce Poliquin (R-ME), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Andy Barr (R-KY), Bill Foster (D-IL), Brad Sherman (D-CA), French Hill (R-AR), and Al Green (D-TX). The Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing recently introduced a bipartisan package of legislation and four of the bills are on the House Floor for consideration today. Last week, H.R. 5485, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2017, included an amendment from Congressman Lynch to increase funding for FinCEN by $3,300,000. The additional funding will enhance the agency’s supervisory strategy of Money Services Businesses and meet the growing demand for FinCEN’s national security response capacity.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement on the shooting in Dallas, Texas: "Our thoughts and prayers are with families of the brave police officers and transit officer who perished last night and with the injured as they recover from this terrible tragedy. We hope that these families and the City of Dallas are able to heal. Our country grieves along with the city of Dallas, their Mayor, and their Police Chief. It has been a difficult week in America. The shootings in St. Paul and Baton Rouge are deeply troubling tragedies as well and we all need to come together to face our challenges in a spirit of mutual respect."
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s amendment to strengthen the Department of Treasury’s Office of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) was accepted to H.R. 5485, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2017. As the lead Democrat on the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, Congressman Lynch (D-Boston) is a strong advocate of FinCEN’s work to monitor and disrupt the flow of money to terrorist networks around the world. Congressman Lynch’s amendment increases funding for FinCEN by $3,300,000 to enhance the agency’s supervisory strategy of Money Services Businesses and to meet the growing demand for FinCEN’s national security response capacity. Terrorists’ proven ability to move money through innovative means necessitates continued progress in this critical counterterrorism area. By sharing financial intelligence with law enforcement, private industry, and its foreign counterparts, FinCEN plays a vital role in the global counterterrorism strategy. “As our country’s financial intelligence unit, FinCEN is a critical tool in our arsenal to disrupt the flow of funding to terrorist organizations. From monitoring revenue sources for ISIS and Boko Haram to examining the abuse of shell companies to launder money, the skilled staff at FinCEN work tirelessly every day to track and stop the flow of illicit funds that would otherwise end up in the hands of bad actors,” said Congressman Lynch. “As threats of terrorism increase worldwide, FinCEN faces a greater demand for its intelligence reporting. The additional $3.3M included in my amendment will help to improve both our national security and the national security of our allies abroad.” Congressman Lynch’s amendment has bipartisan support from members of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing including Chairman Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Vice Chair Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Congressman French Hill (R-AR), Congressman Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA), Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY). Congressman Lynch has long advocated for strengthening the national anti-terrorist financing strategy. Since 2015, Congressman Lynch has served as the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. Last week, Congressman Lynch and members of the Task Force introduced a bipartisan package of bills to strengthen global anti-terrorist financing strategy. Congressman Lynch also founded the bipartisan Task Force on Anti-Terrorism and Proliferation Financing during the 109th Congress and continues to serve as the Democratic Chairman.
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3), Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), and Congressman Thomas Massie (KY-4) hosted a press conference to highlight H. Res. 779, a resolution Congressman Jones introduced to urge the House Intelligence Committee to publish the 28 classified pages of the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001. The pages were initially classified by President George W. Bush and have remained classified under President Barack Obama. In the House, the Committee on Intelligence has jurisdiction over the pages. “I have read these pages and can say that while their release will not harm national security, the contents are critical to our foreign policy moving forward. That is why I have introduced a resolution that would enable the House Committee on Intelligence to declassify the 28 pages,” said Congressman Jones. “The CIA has stated that Congress owns the 28 pages, and the Supreme Court has ruled that members of Congress can declassify material. It is more critical than ever for the American people to know what led to the tragic attacks on September 11, 2001, and I urge my colleagues on the House Intelligence Committee to release the pages.” “Our commitment to one another as citizens in a society that values freedom and justice demands that we hold accountable those who aided and abetted the savage attacks on our homeland and the murder of thousands of innocent Americans. The victims’ families, the public, and the press should have the chance to carefully examine the contents of the 28 pages. It is a matter of justice and good governance to make the 28 pages public in 2016,” said Congressman Lynch. "The House Intelligence Committee should declassify these pages. As we debate how to prevent domestic terrorism, elected officials and their constituents need to know more about the events leading up to September 11. Understanding what enabled this tragedy to occur is fundamental to drafting a strategy for the Middle East," said Congressman Massie. “The release of these pages will not endanger our national security. Keeping them a secret might.” For video of the press conference, please click here.
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Massachusetts Senators Edward J. Markey and Elizabeth Warren and Congressmen Michael Capuano and Stephen F. Lynch applauded the Department of Transportation awarding a $42 million FASTLANE Grant to Massport for Conley Container Terminal in the Port of Boston. In May, Senators Markey and Warren and Representatives Lynch and Capuano wrote to the Transportation Department in support of a FASTLANE Grant for Conley Terminal. “Boston Harbor is an economic anchor for the entire New England region, and this investment in the Conley Container Terminal will help ensure the Port of Boston remains competitive in the 21st century,” said Senator Markey. “Improving Conley Terminal to handle larger container ships that will soon arrive through the expanded Panama Canal will bring more jobs, more investment and more economic activity to the harbor. I thank Senator Warren, and Reps. Capuano and Lynch and the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation for their leadership in securing this important funding.” “This federal funding to help improve Conley Terminal is terrific news for Boston and for the entire region,” said Senator Warren. “Infrastructure investments are a key part of how we grow our economy, and this project will support good jobs and expand opportunities for Massachusetts’ businesses.” “This federal transportation grant will help Massport modernize and expand the Conley Container Terminal, easing access for larger container ships arriving through the Panama Canal,” said Rep. Capuano. “This will help alleviate highway truck traffic, generate jobs and benefit the regional economy. I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for their support of this important infrastructure modernization.” “Each year, the Port of Boston’s Conley Container Terminal is breaking records for its container volume. As increasingly larger ships arrive at the Port, it is imperative that the Conley Terminal is able to accommodate them efficiently without slowing down transit times or harming harbor navigation. By investing in the Boston Harbor, we ensure that the Port of Boston will remain globally competitive, attracting more customers and supporting additional jobs,” said Rep. Lynch. “I commend Senator Markey, Senator Warren, Congressman Capuano, and Tom Glynn and his team at Massport for their hard work to secure the FASTLANE grant.” “Massport is grateful for the leadership of Sen. Markey, Sen. Warren and Rep. Capuano and Rep. Lynch, for their efforts in securing this federal grant which will help Conley Container Terminal maintain its position as an economic engine for the Commonwealth,’’ said Massport CEO Thomas Glynn. “Moving cargo by water is the most economically and environmentally efficient way of connecting Massachusetts companies to the global economy.”
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), and Vice Chairman Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced a bipartisan package of bills on Wednesday to strengthen our global anti-terrorist financing strategies and activities. The bills were introduced by Chairman Fitzpatrick, Ranking Member Lynch, Vice Chairman Pittenger, and other members of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. “Money is like oxygen to terrorists—they cannot survive without it,” Chairman Fitzpatrick said. The bills we’ve introduced provide a clear blueprint to adapt our fight to further ensure that terror groups, such as ISIS, Hezbollah and Boko Haram are unable to financially support their operations. The bills are key to a necessary, enhanced strategy against a growing, global threat.” “From widening the scope of information FinCEN can collect under geographic targeting orders to incentivizing greater intelligence capacity within our partner states, the Task Force’s package of bills will strengthen our global anti-terrorist financing strategy and improve the tools and safeguards in place so that we can more readily monitor and disrupt the ability of terrorists to finance their operations. With recent horrific terrorist attacks both on our soil and abroad, the Task Force’s bipartisan package is timely and necessary to ensure that our financial intelligence agencies are able to evolve their capabilities and cut off funding streams for terrorist groups,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “I thank Chairman Fitzpatrick, Vice Chair Pittenger, and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle for moving this critical bipartisan legislative package forward.” “The bills we introduced represent an important step for our government in recognizing the various threats we face from terrorism financing and supporting federal policies intended on stopping the flow of illicit dollars to criminal and terror organizations, alike,” said Vice Chairman Pittenger. The legislation introduced by the Task Force includes: H.R 5594: Requiring the President to develop and publish an all-encompassing government strategy to combat money laundering and terrorism financing, promoting coordination among the pertinent federal agencies. H.R. 5607: Enhancing a number of tools that the Treasury Department uses in its efforts to combat the financing of terror, money laundering, and related illicit finance. H.R. 5603: Establishing a payment of rewards to individuals who provide information which leads to the freezing or recovering of funds stolen from developing countries through corruption. H.R. 5602: Authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to include all funds when issuing certain geographic targeting orders, including funds involved an electronic fund transfer. H.R. 5606: Enhancing safe harbor provisions for information sharing among financial institutions and government agencies; broadening the range of suspected illegal activities, while requiring a study to determine the appropriate level of sharing with foreign subsidiaries or headquarters of U.S. banking operations. Last week, the Task Force held its final hearing of the 114th Congress summarizing a two-year effort to investigate the financial mechanisms that terrorists use to fund their activities. The 11 hearings covered a wide range of topics, including the current vulnerabilities of the global financial system, trade-based money laundering, assisting the developing world, and the sale and trafficking of illicit goods. The Task Force will release a report of its findings later this year.
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Reps. Mark Meadows (R-NC), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), and Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) introduced a bipartisan discussion draft of postal reform legislation. In releasing the draft, the members issued the following statement: “The Postal Service is in dire financial shape. Without reform now, the problems will only worsen and reform will become far more difficult to accomplish. This bipartisan legislative solution provides the opportunity for the Postal Service to return to solvency and continue to provide universal service to all Americans.” For more information, click here to view the discussion draft and here to view a summary. Background: The Oversight Committee held a hearing on May 11, 2016, that highlighted the need for timely and comprehensive postal reform legislation. During today’s press conference, members discussed key details of a comprehensive bill to reform the U.S. Postal Service. Key Highlights: Enhance Revenue and Improve Efficiency: The bill keeps mailing costs affordable and encourages innovation. Medicare Integration: The bill requires Postal Service retirees to be enrolled in Medicare to remain eligible for federal health care in retirement. The Postal Service and its retirees have paid $29 billion into Medicare, but many retirees are not drawing on the benefits that they have already paid for. Streamline Governance and Oversight: The bill reforms the current governance system to improve accountability by: restructuring the current Postal Service Board of Governors to improve accountability; strengthening the ability of the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) to hold the Postal Service accountable; and consolidating the Postal Service and PRC Offices of Inspector General into one body.
05.07.2016	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement: “On behalf of our extended family, thank you so much for your prayers and support over the past week as we said goodbye to our Mom, Anne M. Lynch. We will never forget your many kindnesses to our family during a difficult time.”
05.04.2016	Future by Jailton Teixeira of Brockton BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) recently announced that Jailton Teixeira of Brockton won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” in the Eighth Congressional District of Massachusetts. The annual art competition is open to all high school students across the country. The winning piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 14 young artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings and collages, among other mediums. The judges selected a charcoal drawing entitled “Future” by Jailton Teixeira, a junior at Brockton High School. The judges noted that Jailton’s drawing has wonderful draftsmanship with great attention to detail and provides a strong and complete narrative. Jailton’s artwork has been flown to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Jailton Teixeira is a wonderfully gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch. “His artwork is a reflection of his talent and hard work. His drawing powerfully honors our courageous service men and women. I hope that Jailton’s success will encourage other students from Brockton and across the Eighth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch added, “We have a number of gifted young artists in the Eighth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their dedicated parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
05.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, President Barack Obama signed the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 into law. Congressman Lynch introduced and successfully pushed the bipartisan legislation through Congress in March with the help of United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), who introduced the bipartisan Senate companion bill. The legislation honors American service members who are Prisoners of War (POW) or Missing in Action (MIA) by placing a commemorative chair on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. “I am very pleased that President Obama signed H.R. 1670, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 into law. Each day, members of Congress and visitors to the U.S. Capitol will pass by the chair of honor and take a moment to pay respect to our Prisoners of War and Missing in Action who bravely serve our nation with honor and valor,” said Congressman Lynch. “I applaud Joe D’Entremont, Gus Dante, and Rolling Thunder Massachusetts Chapter 1 for their leadership both in Massachusetts and across our country in advocating for increased government accountability for POW/MIA and their families. It was the strong advocacy of Rolling Thunder that brought this bill to the finish line and on to the President’s desk.” “My three older brothers served in the military, and I appreciate the sacrifices our servicemembers and their families make each day to keep our country safe. It’s our duty to honor those who have served our nation with courage, including those who have not made it home,” said Senator Warren. “This commemorative chair will serve as a lasting reminder to honor America’s missing servicemembers and prisoners of war, and I thank the Massachusetts Chapter of Rolling Thunder and Rolling Thunder National for their hard work to get this bill passed and signed into law." “Our nation’s POW-MIAs should never be forgotten. Now, with the signing of this bill into law every American visiting the nation’s capital will have the opportunity to honor the incredible sacrifice made by those brave Americans whose fate is still unknown and the courage of the families that are left behind,” said Senator Markey. “I thank President Joe D’Entremont and the members of the Massachusetts Chapter of Rolling Thunder for their tireless efforts to establish a commemorative chair on the U.S. Capitol grounds and ensure that our service members receive the recognition they earned through their noble service to our nation.” The National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 directs the Architect of the Capitol to place a commemorative chair bearing the logo of the National League of POW/MIA Families in a prominent location in the U.S. Capitol. Commemorative chairs, which carry the Prisoners of War and Missing in Action insignia, have been placed in cities and towns around the country, in spaces ranging from city halls to professional sports stadiums. These seats remain perpetually unoccupied as a solemn reminder of the over 83,000 brave service members still waiting to be brought home. Joe D’Entremont of Jamaica Plain, the former President of Rolling Thunder Massachusetts Chapter 1, first brought this initiative to the attention of Congressman Lynch and Senator Warren in 2014. D’Entremont and Gus Dante, both members of Rolling Thunder, Inc. National, have worked hard to promote government accountability for American POW and MIA and their families. They have also been national leaders in advocating for POW/MIA chairs in venues across the country. H.R. 1670, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015, passed the House of Representatives unanimously on March 21, 2016 and passed the Senate unanimously on April 14, 2016. The text of the law is available here. Downloads » H.R. 1670 National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015
04.29.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement in response to negotiations with Spectra Energy regarding the proposed compressor station in North Weymouth along the Fore River: “I have had recent conversations with Mayor Bob Hedlund, Mayor Joe Sullivan, and Mayor Tom Koch from the directly impacted communities. My opposition to the proposed compressor station in North Weymouth has not changed or diminished. I believe the area is too densely settled. It has a substantial residential population with a lot of young children. It is already over-burdened with heavy industry and I believe there are public safety concerns that have not been addressed. I plan to keep fighting for a workable solution.”
04.29.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement upon unanimous U.S. House of Representatives passage of H.R. 2901, the bipartisan Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act: “Homeowners in my district and across Massachusetts have struggled with recent flood insurance premium increases and I have been working with my colleagues on the House Financial Services Committee to examine ways to provide these families with some much needed relief. H.R. 2901, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, gives homeowners the option to choose between private flood insurance and the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). By removing the mandatory purchase requirement of NFIP under the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 and allowing private policies that are approved by a state regulator to count towards continuous coverage, H.R. 2901 will increase coverage options for homeowners and improve access to more affordable and comprehensive insurance policies. I am very pleased that the House took action on this important measure and I am hopeful that the Senate will soon follow suit so that local families can take advantage of more affordable options for flood insurance.” Under the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, options for private flood insurance were narrowly defined, which limited the ability of state regulators to license private flood insurance products. H.R. 2901, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, returns private insurance regulation authority to the states. The flood insurance provider must comply with a state’s laws and regulations. Importantly, the bipartisan legislation will not allow insurance companies to drop customers due to an impending storm. On April 28, 2016, the House passed H.R. 2901, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, by a vote of 419-0. The Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, unanimously passed the House Financial Services Committee, on which Congressman Lynch serves, on March 2, 2016 by a vote of 53-0.
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), joined by members of the bipartisan Quiet Skies Caucus, introduced H.R. 5075, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2016. As residents of communities surrounding airports face increasing levels and durations of airplane noise, the AIM Act will examine the health impacts of airplane overflights on local communities. The AIM Act will ensure that strong, independent research into the health impacts of prolonged exposure to airplane noise and emissions is available to inform the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) policies and decision-making going forward. With the adoption of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation system, hundreds of flights per day are guided with laser-like precision over a narrow flight path. While the RNAV procedures of the NextGen system can increase efficiency, the neighborhoods lying beneath flight paths can experience extended periods of aircraft noise and exposure to air pollutants, raising health implications and negatively impacting the quality of life for local families. “The AIM Act will ensure that we take all airplane-related health impacts into consideration as Congress and the FAA review ways to improve flight path policies. Every day, I hear from families in Milton, Hull, South Boston, and other communities in the 8th District about the disproportionate burden of airplane traffic and the negative health and quality of life implications the noise and emissions have on their daily life,” said Congressman Lynch. “Local communities need to be heard and our federal agencies must be held accountable. This study is an important step forward on the road to a healthier environment for the people who live and work near Logan Airport and other international airports around the country.” H.R. 5075, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2016 has 16 original cosponsors including Congressman Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Congresswoman Katherine M. Clark (MA-05), Congressman Joe Crowley (NY-14), Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05), Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Congressman Sam Farr (CA-20), Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Congressman Alan Grayson (FL-09), Congressman Steve Israel (NY-03), Congressman Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-05), Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Congresswoman Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-09), and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14). “With new navigation technologies narrowing flight paths, there has been woefully inadequate attention paid to the impact of those flights on our neighborhoods. Too many of my constituents in every community I represent are enduring increased noise and pollution, with little relief in sight. This legislation will examine the health impacts of living under these flight paths and is an important step in addressing the disproportionate burden many of our communities are struggling with,” said Congressman Capuano. “I’ve always said our airports will never be perfect neighbors, but we can help make them better ones,” said Congressman Joe Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus and whose district includes LaGuardia Airport. “There is no question that the deafening noise pollution plaguing communities around airports has an adverse impact on our constituents’ health and well-being. And, the more we know about a problem, the better placed we’ll be to find solutions. This legislation will go a long way in giving us the information we need to help people whose lives are disrupted by the roar of airplanes. I’m proud to join Congressman Lynch and my colleagues in this effort.” “New flight paths implemented under the FAA’s NextGen program have generated alarming and untenable increases in noise impacts across my entire Congressional District. I consistently hear from constituents who are impacted daily and are concerned about air pollution and other health impacts of airplane overflights,” said Congresswoman Eshoo. “This legislation goes to the heart of this issue, ensuring there will be scientific data developed and measured to assess the NextGen program and its effect on my constituents.” “The sudden increase in airplane noise has harmed the quality of life for folks in my district. We need to have a better understanding of the health effects of this increased noise as we continue to look for ways to remove it from our skies,” said Congressman Farr. “People living near airports in Phoenix and across the country know far too well that flight path changes instituted by the FAA have meant more noise and a lower quality of life. But they deserve to know whether the incessant noise could also have an impact on their health. I’m proud to co-sponsor Congressman Lynch’s bill, which will help answer some of our questions about the long-term effects that aircraft noise could have on the people who live in affected communities,” said Congressman Gallego. “The FAA must determine what health effects airplane noise has on communities, including those in my district in Nassau and Queens. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation that will require the FAA to engage public health experts on prolonged exposure to airplane noise that my constituents experience every day. This will ensure Congress has the evidence it needs to work with the FAA to improve the process for determining flight paths,” said Congressman Israel. “Having grown up less than a mile from Midway Airport in Chicago, I know that airplane noise can be extremely frustrating,” Congressman Lipinski said. “With new flight paths having been implemented into and out of Midway and other airports, the AIM Act is critical in helping us address the impact of these changes on people who live and work near our busy airports.” “The barrage of increased airplane noise over my district in Queens, New York continues to negatively impact the quality of life of many of my constituents,” said Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-Queens), a founder and Co-Chair of the Quiet Skies Caucus. “I have spearheaded and supported numerous initiatives to combat this problem and I’m pleased to back Congressman Lynch’s legislation as well. Examining the health impacts of flight paths is an important component in our fight to reduce noise and hold the FAA accountable.” “I did not realize when we began our efforts against outrageous in the nation’s capital that so many other Americans in states and cities across the United States were also having their sleep disrupted and suffering inevitable impacts related to their health,” said Congresswoman Norton. “This bill, introduced by many of our colleagues in the Quiet Skies Caucus, nationalizes the health issues that arise from runaway airplane noise and gets us closer to remedies for local communities.” “My constituents back home in Chicago are facing unprecedented noise pollution that is eroding their quality of life, lowering their property values, and impacting their health,” said Congressman Quigley. “I’ve been working hard to explore solutions to mitigate noise for the sake of public health at the local level as well as at the national level with my colleagues in the Quiet Skies Caucus, and I’m proud to join Congressman Lynch in introducing the Airplane Impacts Mitigation Act. The more we understand the effects aircraft noise is having on public health, the better suited we are to enact practical and effective solutions to protect our constituents from the damaging effects.” “The health of those who live under constant bombardment of airplane noise and pollution is being seriously compromised. By requiring an independent study of this insidious problem, this bill takes an important step forward in understanding how to protect vulnerable communities,” said Congresswoman Speier. In particular, the AIM Act requires the FAA Administrator to enter into an agreement with a school of public health to conduct a study of the health impacts of airplane flights on residents exposed to a range of noise and air pollution levels from such flights, including asthma exacerbation, sleep disturbance, stress, and elevated blood pressure. The study will focus on residents living partly or wholly within the land area underneath the flight paths most frequently used by aircraft flying including during takeoff or landing at an altitude lower than 10,000 feet. It will consider only those health impacts that manifest during the physical implementation of the NextGen RNAV program. In addition, the AIM Act mandates that the study will focus on residents in Boston, Chicago, New York, the Northern California Metroplex region, Phoenix, and up to three additional cities. These five areas have noticed a distinct change in flight paths and sharp shifts in airplane noise as a result of the NextGen flight system. The Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus seeks to raise awareness of the impact of aircraft noise, hold the FAA accountable to the concerns of local communities, and find meaningful legislative and administrative solutions to reduce airplane noise. The caucus consists of members of Congress from across the country whose constituents are severely impacted by the FAA’s NextGen flight system. Congressman Lynch and the members of the Quiet Skies Caucus are strong advocates for robust community engagement between the FAA and communities surrounding local airports. In December of 2015, Congressman Lynch held a public forum with representatives from the FAA, Massport, and other local elected officials in order to provide concerned residents with an in person opportunity to be heard. Nearly 600 people attended the three and half hour public forum in Milton to share the impact that concentrated airplane flight paths have on their daily lives. The text of H.R. 5075, the Airplane Impacts Mitigation (AIM) Act of 2016, is available here. Downloads » Text of the AIM Act
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, led six bipartisan colleagues in a letter calling for the Philippines to be held accountable to international anti-money laundering standards before being considered for membership in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Current anti-money laundering law in the Philippines does not cover the gaming industry, allowing money to flow unmonitored through the country’s casinos. A recent New York Times report called attention to deficiencies in the Philippines’ Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) regime. Since the gaming industry is not covered under AML/CFT law, funds are not able to be traced once they reach a casino. This loophole is a major vulnerability for money laundering. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the international watchdog agency that sets international standards for anti-money laundering, has flagged this problem as having the potential to be exploited by terrorist groups. “Our international anti-money laundering standards are a key tool in combating terrorist financing. The Philippines cannot continue to allow large sums of money to be transferred from their banking system to the gaming industry without the ability to track beneficiaries. This loophole can have grave consequences and poses a major risk for exploitation by criminal organizations and terrorist groups,” said Congressman Lynch. “I have serious concerns about the Philippines’ eligibility for membership in the Trans-Pacific Partnership if they are blatantly failing to meet established anti-money laundering standards.” The cosigners of the letters are Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (CA-43), Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Vice Chair Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05), Congressman Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), and Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06). The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Jacob J. Lew Secretary United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Ambassador Michael Froman Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Secretary Lew and Ambassador Froman, The New York Times recently reported that $81 million was transferred out of an official Bangladesh account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to the Philippines. According to that article, testimony in a Philippines Senate panel hearing suggested that most of the money from the Bangladesh account was delivered to three casino operators. Unfortunately, since the Philippines does not have an anti-money laundering law that covers the gaming industry, the funds can no longer be traced once they reached the casinos. It is unlikely that the inclusion of casinos under the Philippines’ AML/CFT regime will occur without sustained pressure from the international community. We write to insist that Philippines’ casinos meet the Financial Action Task Force’s Anti-Money Laundering compliance standards before being allowed to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement. The key to combatting money laundering is to ensure that governments can effectively follow the money trail to track and stop the flow of illicit funds. However, loopholes like those found in the Philippines anti-money laundering law make it challenging to effectively track the movement of funds. According to the U.S State Department’s International Narcotics Control Strategy Report (INCSR), there have been efforts to legally include casinos under the Philippines Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) regime, but “progress has been slow,” and there is “extensive lobbying from the casino industry.” At a time of increased trade and globalization, we must be even more diligent with enforcing international standards for anti-money laundering. Thus, we respectively ask that the Philippines should not be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement unless their anti-money laundering law is amended to include the gaming industry. Thank you for your continuing efforts to work with members of Congress to safeguard our global financial system. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Downloads » AML-CFT Letter re Philippines Casinos to Treasury USTR 4-20-16
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Central Intelligence Agency (C.I.A.) has approved enhanced death benefits for the families of eligible C.I.A. employees and contractors who have been killed in the line of duty overseas since 1983, including the family of former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. security contractor Glen Doherty. Mr. Doherty was killed during the September 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya. Congressman Lynch has long advocated that the family of Glen Doherty receive full death benefits. “Losing a son or brother in war is the most painful sacrifice that can be made by an American family. Families of American heroes should not also have to fight through a bureaucratic process to receive those benefits that such heroism has earned. Barbara Doherty, Kate Quigley, and the entire Doherty family have waited more than three and a half years to receive the protections and benefits that their son, Glen Doherty, intended them to receive in the event of his death in the line of duty and in the service of our country. I thank the Doherty’s for their strength, patience, and grace throughout this process and I commend them for their perseverance on behalf of other affected C.I.A. families,” said Congressman Lynch. “I appreciate the cooperation and compassion of my congressional colleagues and committees of jurisdiction in addressing the inequities in the law. Through the hard work of the Doherty family, Amy Carnevale and her team at the law firm K&L Gates, and some of my colleagues in Congress who worked diligently behind the scenes negotiating this administrative solution, it is my hope that other families will not have to go through the arduous process the Doherty’s faced. I will continue to advocate for passage of the Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act in order to ensure that all families of contractors without dependents do not face a similar difficult benefits situation in the future,” Congressman Lynch added. Glen Doherty was killed in September of 2012 while defending the classified annex near the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi against a terrorist attack that also resulted in the deaths of U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. contractor Tyrone Woods, and U.S. State Department officer Sean Smith. While Mr. Doherty was unmarried with no children or other dependents, he activated his mandatory Defense Base Act insurance policy before deploying for a scheduled 54-day mission to Libya beginning on September 7, 2012 with the reasonable belief that his policy would pay benefits to his estate or next of kin in the event of his death. Congressman Lynch first introduced H.R. 312, the Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act, in November of 2014. The legislation would remove a significant penalty in federal law that currently prohibits the families of overseas contractors who are killed in the line of duty from receiving full death benefits if the deceased employee is unmarried with no children or other dependents. The families of overseas federal contractors, including the family of Mr. Doherty, have faced significant difficulty in receiving death benefits under federally-required insurance policies when their loved one is killed on the job, but is single with no dependents. The Defense Base Act of 1941 requires that overseas federal contractors obtain so-called Defense Base Act insurance in order to make certain that injured workers are entitled to workers’ compensation for employment-related injuries and their survivors are entitled to death benefits in the event of a job-related tragedy. Regrettably, current law does not extend death benefits, aside from $3,000 in funeral expenses, to the family or designated beneficiary of a federal contractor who is killed in the line of duty overseas, but is unmarried with no dependents. H.R. 312 would therefore amend the Defense Base Act to ensure that full death benefits are extended to the families or designated beneficiaries of these federal contractors who have died in service to our country as a result of a war-risk hazard or an act of terrorism.
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3), Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), and Congressman Thomas Massie (KY-4) sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to release the 28 redacted pages of the Congressional Joint Inquiry Into Intelligence Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001 before his trip to Saudi Arabia this week. Many members of both the Joint Inquiry and the 9/11 Commission publicly support declassifying the 28 pages, along with a large bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress. “I have read these pages and can say that while their release will not harm national security, the contents are critical to our foreign policy moving forward. I think it’s important that President Obama release the 28 pages—like he promised the 9/11 families he would do on multiple occasions—before his trip to Saudi Arabia so that the American people can know the truth and his trip is as fruitful as possible,” said Congressman Jones. "We owe it to the families of the innocent victims and to the American people to provide a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding the September 11th terrorist attacks. Declassifying the 28 pages is an important step towards answering some of the questions that remain and it is a matter of justice and good governance to do so in 2016," said Congressman Lynch. "President Obama should immediately declassify these pages. Before we involve ourselves in Syria, elected officials and their constituents need to know more about the events leading up to September 11. Understanding what enabled this tragedy to occur is fundamental to drafting a strategy for the Middle East," said Congressman Massie. “I also challenge my colleagues in Congress to read the pages on behalf of their constituents and immediately cosponsor H. Res 14.” Last year, Congressmen Jones, Lynch, and Massie introduced H. Res. 14, a resolution to call on President Obama to declassify the 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry that were initially classified by President George W. Bush and have remained classified under President Barack Obama. The resolution states that declassification of the pages is necessary to provide the American public with the full truth surrounding the tragic events of September 11, 2001, particularly relating to the involvement of foreign governments.
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the United States Senate unanimously passed H.R. 1670, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015, legislation introduced by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston). United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) introduced the bipartisan Senate companion bill. The legislation honors American service members who are Prisoners of War (POW) or Missing in Action (MIA) by placing a commemorative chair on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. Commemorative chairs, which carry the POW and MIA insignia, have been placed in cities and towns around the country, in spaces ranging from city halls to professional sports stadiums. These seats remain perpetually unoccupied as a solemn reminder of the over 83,000 brave service members still waiting to be brought home. The National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 directs the Architect of the Capitol to place a commemorative chair bearing the logo of the National League of POW/MIA Families in a prominent location in the U.S. Capitol. “I am very pleased that the Senate passed H.R. 1670, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 and I give great credit to Senators Warren and Markey for their hard work to gain passage in the Senate. The U.S Capitol serves as a symbol of our nation’s history and enduring spirit, so it is appropriate to recognize those who remain unaccounted for under its dome,” said Congressman Lynch. “Our bill pays respect to the brave men and women who are Missing in Action or Prisoners of War who serve our nation with valor and honor. This commemorative chair will stand as a daily reminder to our POW/MIA and their families that we will never forget them.” “My three older brothers served in the military, and I appreciate the sacrifices our servicemembers and their families make each day to keep our country safe. It’s our duty to honor those who have served our nation with courage, including those who have not made it home,” said Senator Warren. “This commemorative chair will serve as a lasting reminder to honor America’s missing servicemembers and prisoners of war, and I thank the Massachusetts Chapter of Rolling Thunder and Rolling Thunder National for their hard work to get this bill passed.” “We must do all that we can to ensure that our nation's POW-MIAs are never forgotten. This commemorative chair will remind Americans visiting the nation's capital of the incredible sacrifice made by those brave Americans whose fate is still unknown and the strength of the families that are left behind,” said Senator Markey. “I thank President Joe D'Entremont and the members of the Massachusetts Chapter of Rolling Thunder for their tireless work to ensure that our service members receive the recognition they earned through their noble and courageous service to our nation.” Joe D’Entremont of Jamaica Plain, the former President of Rolling Thunder Massachusetts Chapter 1, first brought this initiative to the attention of Congressman Lynch and Senator Warren in 2014. D’Entremont and Gus Dante, both members of Rolling Thunder, Inc. National, have worked hard to promote government accountability for American POW and MIA and their families. They have also been national leaders in advocating for POW/MIA chairs in venues across the country. The National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015 is supported by veteran’s advocacy groups including the National League of POW/MIA Families, the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the American Legion, the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the Vietnam Veterans of America, and Rolling Thunder. H.R. 1670 passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on March 21, 2016. With final approval of the bill by both chambers, the bill will next go to the President for his signature to become law.
04.06.2016	Rep. Lynch with members of the U.S. Navy from Massachusetts aboard the USS Harry S. Truman BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee, recently returned from a weeklong congressional delegation to the Middle East led by Senator Joe Donnelly (D-Indiana). Congressman Lynch traveled to Iraq, Israel, the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.), and Bahrain in order to examine efforts to disrupt and destroy the Islamic State and to conduct oversight of regional missile defense systems. As Iraqi forces battle to take the town of Hit and prepare to retake the city of Mosul from the Islamic State, Congressman Lynch traveled to Iraq to assess the fight against the Islamic State. Congressman Lynch held meetings with United States and Iraqi military commanders and observed U.S. service members training Iraqi security forces in Anbar province. In addition, the delegation met with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Stuart Jones and with Sunni tribal leadership to discuss efforts to train and advise Iraqi forces and prevent the Islamic State from expanding its hold over cities and towns in Iraq. “As the fight against the Islamic State continues, it is essential that Iraq’s Sh’ia, Sunni, and Kurdish ground forces work in tandem in order to effectively cut off supply lines for the terrorist organization and halt the terrorist group’s attacks on the Iraqi people,” said Congressman Lynch. In Israel, Congressman Lynch met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss regional security interests. As Israel prepares to deploy one of the most advanced missile defense systems in the world with more than $3.3 billion in support from the United States, Congressman Lynch and the delegation visited several military sites to receive an update on Israel’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the U.S. In December, Israel and the United States successfully tested David’s Sling and Arrow-3, two new ballistic missile defense systems. More recently, in March, U.S. service members took part in an air defense drill with Israel to improve coordination of U.S. and Israeli air defense forces. While in the U.A.E., the delegation held meetings with U.S. military leaders as well as a representative from the U.A.E. Ministry of Defense to examine efforts to strengthen cooperation among Gulf States on missile defense. “As countries throughout the Middle East face regional security threats from the Islamic State, Hezbollah, al-Qaeda, and other terrorist organizations, our meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu was an important opportunity to discuss the strategic relationship between Israel and the United States. While Iran is so far in compliance with the nuclear agreement, their testing of ballistic missiles makes the region uneasy. It is essential that we continue to work with our partners in the Middle East to effectively promote our mutual security interests through missile defense and intelligence collaboration,” said Congressman Lynch. Aboard the USS Harry S. Truman, an aircraft carrier deployed in the Persian Gulf, Congressman Lynch met with U.S. Navy leadership to discuss efforts to dismantle the Islamic State and potential security threats in the Middle East. In Bahrain, Congressman Lynch also visited with service men and women from Massachusetts who are honorably serving in the U.S. Navy, including constituents from Weymouth. “I cannot thank our brave men and women in uniform enough for their service to our country. I am always impressed with their discipline, their humility, and their common bravery. Meeting and traveling with these troops and hearing their thoughts and concerns firsthand is one of the most important things I can do as a Member of Congress. It is a privilege to have the chance to spend time with service members from across the country, particularly the brave men and women who call the 8th District of Massachusetts home,” Congressman Lynch added. For high resolution photos from CODEL Donnelly, please click here.
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston)’s legislation H.R. 1670, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015, passed unanimously on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. H.R. 1670 honors American Prisoners of War/Missing in Action (POW/MIA) by placing a chair on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. H.R. 1670 has bipartisan support from 45 House cosponsors. Commemorative chairs, which carry the POW and MIA insignia, have been placed in cities and towns around the country, in spaces ranging from city halls to professional sports stadiums. These seats remain perpetually unoccupied as a solemn reminder of the over 83,000 brave service members still waiting to be brought home. “I am very pleased to work alongside my colleagues to pay respect to the men and women who are Missing in Action or Prisoners of War. These brave Americans serve our nation with valor and honor. This commemorative chair will serve as a daily reminder to our POW/MIA and their families that we will never forget them,” said Congressman Lynch. “With the help of Rolling Thunder Massachusetts Chapter 1, the Commonwealth has led the way in honoring our Prisoners of War and Missing in Action. I am proud that the United States Capitol will follow suit.” Joe D’Entremont of Jamaica Plain, the former President of the Rolling Thunder Massachusetts Chapter 1, first brought this initiative to the attention of Congressman Lynch in 2014. D’Entremont and Gus Dante, both members of the Rolling Thunder, Inc. National Board, have worked hard to promote government accountability for American prisoners of war and missing in action and their families. They have also been national leaders in advocating for POW/MIA chairs in venues across the country. “I would like to thank Congressman Lynch for his hard work on this issue. A POW/MIA chair that will remain perpetually empty to help people remember that even though our soldiers are not here, there is still a space for them. That’s why displaying in the Capitol will remind the families of the missing and the public that our government has not forgotten those that did not come home,” said Gus Dante, member of the Rolling Thunder, Inc. National Board. A companion bill, S. 885, the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2015, has been introduced by Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). The Senate companion bill has bipartisan support from 17 cosponsors.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) together held a hearing of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing this week focused the United States’ role in helping developing nation’s address terror financing. The international community has sought to strengthen the financial, law enforcement, and legal systems of developing countries in order to better prevent the financing of terrorism and other illicit financial flows. The hearing examined the extent to which technical assistance is coordinated; successes and failures of the current assistance-delivery regime; and ways to improve the provision of such assistance. “Throughout the lifetime of this Task Force, one fact has remained consistent: combatting terror finance is and must continue to be an international effort,”said Fitzpatrick. “The countries of today’s world are more interconnected than ever been before — especially when focusing on the financial system and the global trade system. With this much integration, the weakest link in the system becomes the target for exploitation by criminal organizations and terrorist groups. We must identify how the international community is addressing this issue, how efficient the U.S. is when delivering technical assistance to developing nations and how coordination between U.S. agencies and international partners can be improved.” “ISIS, Boko Haram, and other terrorist groups are constantly seeking new ways to fund their efforts. Weak financial institutions in the developing world are a breeding ground for corruption and a prime target for terrorist financiers,”said Lynch. “The United States must continue to expand robust and effective technical assistance to developing nations in order to investigate and prosecute terrorist financiers and prevent legitimate financial institutions from being exploited.” Testifying at the hearing were: Ambassador Robert M. Kimmitt, Senior International Counsel, WilmerHale Mr. Clay Lowery, Vice President, Rock Creek Global Advisors and Visiting Fellow, Center for Global Development Mr. James W. Adams, former Vice President, East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank Mr. William F. Wechsler, Senior Fellow, Center for American Progress “The world’s financial system, once entered, provides borderless, near seamless opportunity for our enemies to use the system to fund insidious operations designed to inflict near- and long term harm on the United States,” said Kimmitt. “Given their weaker institutional capacities and systems, it is perhaps inevitable that developing countries, particularly lower-income developing countries, would become preferred targets for criminal and terrorist actors,”noted Adams. “Gaps in bank supervision capacities and weak technical skills make these countries attractive targets; moreover governance and corruption issues within government bureaucracies can often undermine even the efforts of honest governments in these areas.” Key Takeaways from the Hearing: No body or other institution is charged with facilitating, on a global level, the provision of training and technical assistance relating to methods to combat terror financing and money laundering. The United States and the international community have sought to strengthen the financial, law enforcement, and legal systems of developing countries in order to better prevent the financing of terrorism and criminal activity. Governments extend “technical assistance” and “capacity building” bilaterally; multilateral institutions and, in some instances, non-government organizations also deliver assistance in these areas. Building on previous findings, the task force will continue to hold hearings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current policy, while working to ensure terror groups are unable to financially support their operations.
02.24.2016	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2016 annual congressional art competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C., for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. The annual congressional art competition is now open for submissions and all entries must be received by Thursday, April 28, 2016. Entries can be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Quincy, or Brockton district offices and addressed to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition, for more information on the competition. “The 8th Congressional District is home to some wonderfully gifted and talented artists. The annual congressional art competition is an exciting opportunity for high school students with a passion for art to share their creativity and skill,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had a number of outstanding entries and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Isabelle Xu of Westwood, representing our District in the U.S. Capitol. The judges praised her piece, “The Little Match Girl,” as imaginative and well done. I look forward to viewing this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in Washington, D.C. this summer.”
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and Vice Chairman Robert Pittenger (R-NC) sent a letter Thursday to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew expressing concern with the Administration’s current policies on combating trade based money laundering and the threat this illicit practice has on the United States and our economic partners. “On February 2, 2016, the House Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing held a hearing which focused on trade based money laundering and the threat it holds toward our national security, financial system and the international trade system,” wrote Fitzpatrick, Lynch and Pittenger. “This hearing revealed that, although the men and women of the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement are doing tremendous work, there is significant room for more accurate data collection, improved data consolidation, and increased cooperation with the private sector and our regional partners.” The Task Force has requested the Treasury Department’s Office of Intelligence and Analysis examine the data at its disposal and generate an official estimate of the impact trade based money laundering has on the United States. Trade-based money laundering has been widely recognized as the most common form of money laundering and value transfer method utilized by criminal and terrorist organizations, allowing these groups the ability to move billions of dollars annually virtually undetected. Given the considerable volume of international trade and the value of the transactions, the effects of trade-based money laundering can result in extensive repercussions for global commerce and government revenues. The full letter is attached and below: Dear Mr. Secretary: We write to express concern with the Administration’s current policies on combating trade based money laundering and the threat this illicit practice has on the United States and our economic partners. On February 2, 2016, the House Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing held a hearing which focused on trade based money laundering and the threat it holds toward our national security, financial system and the international trade system. This hearing revealed that, although the men and women of the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement are doing tremendous work, there is significant room for more accurate data collection, improved data consolidation, and increased cooperation with the private sector and our regional partners. Furthermore, it was brought to our attention that there is no official estimate on the magnitude of trade based money laundering as a whole. Therefore, we respectfully urge the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Intelligence and Analysis to examine the data at its disposal and generate an official estimate of the impact trade based money laundering has on the United States. We look forward to your immediate engagement to address this issue. Sincerely, Downloads » Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Leadership Calls on Treasury Dept. to Focus on TBML
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) together held the first hearing of the newly-reauthorized Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing Wednesday focused on trade-based money laundering. Trade-based money laundering has been widely recognized as the most common form of money laundering and value transfer method utilized by crime and terrorist organizations, allowing these groups the ability to move billions of dollars annually virtually undetected. Given the considerable volume of international trade and the value of the transactions, the effects of trade-based money laundering can result in extensive repercussions for global commerce and government revenues. In response, the Department of Homeland Security established the first Trade Transparency Unit (TTU) in 2004 to examine anomalies and financial irregularities in trade data to identify instances of trade-based money laundering and customs fraud. “In an increasingly connected world, trade-based money laundering allows terror and criminal syndicates to disguise their billions of dollars annually through the use of trade transactions in an attempt to legitimize their illicit origins. This cannot be allowed to continue,” said Fitzpatrick. “Building on what we know and have learned, this session of the task force will take a much closer look at this process as well as investigate several lesser known methodologies mentioned in previous hearings, including terror funding streams from Latin America, developing our regional partners’ capabilities to combat terror financing and the funding of foreign based terrorists.” “With the complexity and rapid growth of international trade, there is ample opportunity for terrorist financers and criminal organizations to exploit the global financial system and engage in trade-based money laundering with low risk of being caught. We must increase transparency in the global trade network in order to increase the ability of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and other organizations to investigate this illicit money laundering and to halt this revenue source for terrorist organizations,” said Lynch. “I look forward to working closely with Chairman Fitzpatrick and our colleagues to address this critical issue and other potential vulnerabilities in the global financial system during the new session of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing.” Testifying at the hearing were: Mr. John Cassara, former U.S. Intelligence Officer and Treasury Special Agent Mr. Louis Bock, former Senior Special Agent, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Mr. Farley Mesko, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Sayari Analytics Dr. Nikos Passas, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice, College of Social Sciences and Humanities, Northeastern University Building on previous findings, the task force will continue to hold hearings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current policy, while working to ensure terror groups are unable to financially support their operations.
12.22.2015	BOSTON, MA – Last week, the Congress passed and President Obama signed a bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill funding the government through Fiscal Year 2016 by a vote of 316-113. “As local communities struggle to provide veterans with the services they have earned, I am very pleased that Congress recognized the need to invest heavily in efforts to end veterans’ homelessness and support suicide prevention programs. In addition, many families in the 8th District are faced with the devastating impacts of a loved one struggling with addiction and increased support for the drug courts program is a critical way to help halt the cycle of addiction,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) who voted in favor of the legislation. “While the spending package was imperfect, it makes critical investments to promote economic growth and assist the hardworking families of the 8th District. My concerns about lifting the oil export ban were outweighed by the substantial funding for alternative energy, which will create jobs across the country. From increased support for medical research into debilitating diseases to investing in updates for our aging infrastructure, the federal government has prioritized funding for many issues close to the hearts of residents of Massachusetts,” Congressman Lynch added. Important priorities for Massachusetts families and businesses in the omnibus package include: $1.4 billion for Ending Veterans Homelessness: As the VA works with local communities to reduce the number of veterans living on the streets, this funding will help support efforts to end veterans’ homelessness. In addition, funding for rental assistance programs for veterans was included in the $11.3 billion for housing programs. $26.7 million for Defense Suicide Prevention Office: Funding to support suicide prevention is included in the $50 billion for VA Medical Services. With high suicide rates among veterans returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan, the omnibus directs the VA to move forward with implementation of the community-oriented peer support suicide prevention network established by the Clay Hunt SAV Act, which was signed into law earlier this year. $42 million for the Drug Courts Program: Drug courts are proven to save taxpayers money, reduce crime, and restore families. Earlier this year, Congressman Lynch advocated for an increase in funding for the drug courts program during the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations process. $32 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH): The $2 billion increase for medical research at NIH will fund projects seeking to improve the health of American families, including cancer and Alzheimer’s disease research. NIH funding plays a significant role in the medical research ongoing at local hospitals and research institutions. $2.1 billion for Alternative Energy: The omnibus invests heavily in renewable and clean energy with a $149 million increase for Fiscal Year 2016. Extending the wind production and solar investment tax credits for five years is expected to create good jobs in both industries. $500 million for TIGER Grants: The Commonwealth of Massachusetts and municipalities will be able to seek funding from the TIGER grant program for long overdue infrastructure enhancements, improving safety and access to transportation in the Commonwealth. Cadillac Tax Delay: The tax on high-value employer-sponsored health insurance plans, also known as the Cadillac tax, is delayed until 2020. This is a much needed delay as the Cadillac tax is expected to have a negative impact on union health plans. Congressman Lynch is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2050, the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2015, which repeals the Cadillac tax. 9/11 First Responders and Victims of State-Sponsored Terrorism: The omnibus reauthorizes health benefits for 9/11 first responders and renews the Victims Compensation Fund for five years. Congressman Lynch was an original cosponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act.
12.19.2015	BOSTON, MA – The recent Omnibus bill passed in Congress and signed by President Obama included language that requires the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to increase community engagement. The provision states that “not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall review and update the agency’s ‘Community Involvement Manual’ related to new air traffic procedures, public outreach and community involvement: Provided further, That the Administrator shall complete and implement a plan which enhances community involvement techniques and proactively addresses concerns associated with performance based navigation projects.” Following passage of the Omnibus including the “quiet skies” provision, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D–Boston) released the following statement: “The families who live in the neighborhoods and towns surrounding Logan Airport have struggled to have their concerns about airplane noise heard by the FAA for a long time. Thanks to the efforts of our Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus, Congress is trying to hold the FAA accountable by mandating that the FAA update their community involvement strategy and report back to Congress on these important changes. The lack of public outreach from the FAA has been a significant issue for residents of the 8th Congressional District and communities across the country. This new provision will ensure that the FAA is more responsive. It gives us more leverage in dealing with the FAA. And to all the 600 or so good people who sat through our 3-1/2 hour FAA forum at Milton High School, I would say that this is because of your involvement and it's a step forward on the road to a better and healthier environment for the people who live and work near Logan Airport. This is progress.”
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today applauded the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) announcement that more than $120 million in disaster assistance has been awarded to the Commonwealth for costs associated with this past winter’s historic snowfall. “This disaster funding is a big help for Massachusetts’ cities and towns as we continue to recover from last winter’s severe storms,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “It’s important for the federal government to be a good partner for our local communities, especially during emergencies, and I’m glad the congressional delegation was able to work with FEMA and with our state and local officials to secure this critical aid. This funding will support much-needed repairs to the Commonwealth's aging infrastructure as we work to improve resiliency for the winter months.” “This disaster funding will go a long way to help pay the bills that piled up as high as last year’s historic snowfall," Senator Edward J. Markey said. "I’m pleased the entire Congressional delegation was able to help Massachusetts and our local municipalities get the federal relief and resources we need to repair, rebuild and recoup costs incurred from last year's winter disaster.” “Last year, the people of Massachusetts experienced some of the most severe weather in recent history. Record snowfall and historically cold temperatures made the winter months challenging, especially for our cities and towns. That is why this unprecedented amount of disaster assistance from FEMA is welcome news. It will help communities cover storm related costs and give them the resources to plan for the upcoming winter season. It’s an early Christmas present for the entire Commonwealth,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Our last winter was one of the harshest that Massachusetts has faced and this federal aid will provide much-needed relief to the cities and towns that were impacted,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Bringing these federal dollars back to Massachusetts to help families and communities recover has been a top priority. I’m proud to work side-by-side with such strong partners in our delegation to help continue recovery efforts as we prepare for this year’s winter.” “This federal funding will take some of the financial burden off of our cities and towns, who struggled through an historic winter. I am pleased that FEMA recognized the need for federal aid, which will help our communities meet the financial challenges that the winter of 2015 created,” stated Congressman Michael Capuano. “The severe snowstorms last winter left many cities and towns struggling with significant costs for snow removal and infrastructure repairs. I am pleased that the Massachusetts delegation was able to work closely with Governor Baker and our local elected officials to strongly advocate for much needed federal aid. As winter approaches, this assistance will relieve some of the stress placed on budgets across the Commonwealth after the substantial storm costs accumulated earlier this year,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “After last winter’s historic snowfall, all levels of government came together to ensure Massachusetts received support from FEMA and the federal government," Congresswoman Niki Tsongas said. "This announcement is the result of that collaboration across federal, state and local government. The funding will go a long way here in the Commonwealth, especially as we look ahead to the beginning of another New England winter.” “Communities across our Commonwealth faced unprecedented costs and damage following last year’s historic winter,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy. “With this aid, our cities and towns can recoup some of the funding used to keep their streets open, governments functioning and first responders available. I applaud FEMA for assisting in our recovery and thank all of my colleagues in the delegation for working together to advocate for these critical funds.” “Last winter’s unprecedented snow storms severely damaged homes and businesses, left thousands without power, and crippled the Commonwealth’s already aging infrastructure," Congressman Seth Moulton said. "I am grateful to FEMA for providing this much-needed assistance and applaud the work of our state and local partners for their efforts to mitigate the impact of these storms." Following last winter’s storms, the delegation asked FEMA to support the Commonwealth’s disaster recovery efforts, and urged President Obama to approve Massachusetts’ disaster declaration request.
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Financial Services Committee voted unanimously Tuesday to reauthorize the bipartisan Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing led by Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA). “As we’ve seen in recent days and weeks, the threats posed by terrorist organizations like ISIS – as well as lone actors – is real and evolving. It is my goal to advance upon the findings from our previous work to discover additional ways Congress may better assist our intelligence, law enforcement, and defense communities to cut off funding streams to terror groups seeking chaos and destruction. To this end, I am confident we can succeed together,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “I’d like to thank Chairman Hensarling Ranking Member Waters and my colleague Mr. Lynch for working to reestablish this important task force and reaffirming this committee’s determination to use its role to address the dangers of terrorism.” “Following the recent horrific terror attacks on our soil and abroad, it is vital to continue the work of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. By working closely with FinCEN and other financial intelligence agencies, the Task Force can identify ways to evolve our capabilities to monitor and disrupt the flow of funding to terrorist organizations around the world,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am very pleased that Chairman Hensarling, Ranking Member Waters, and the Committee as a whole recognized the need to renew the Task Force. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Fitzpatrick on a bipartisan basis to improve our strategy to target the global threat of ISIL and other extremist groups by halting their funding sources.” The initial six months of operation of the Task Force shed significant light on multiple issues with regards to counter threats finance and anti-money laundering initiatives. The discovery of the various revenue streams ISIL utilizes to fund its terror operation and the ways in which the U.S. may effectively counter them – such as continuing to target ISIL oil infrastructure, work with regional allies to close porous borders, and to better police the travel of foreign fighters. Building consensus on the need for greater information sharing throughout the financial system and between government agencies, as well as an increased integration of government databases. Agreement that Congress needs to act on beneficial ownership and to provide the appropriate agencies with sufficient resources to address current challenges. Building on these previous findings, a new session of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing will take a much closer look at several topics, such as trade-based money laundering, terror funding streams from Latin America, and developing our regional partners’ capabilities to combat terror financing.
12.07.2015	BOSTON, MA – On Thursday, December 3, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) hosted a public forum with officials from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and Massport in order to address growing complaints about the frequency and increased levels of airplane noise for local towns and neighborhoods surrounding Logan International Airport. During the nearly four hour forum at Milton High School, open to all affected communities, residents voiced their concerns with the flight paths under the RNAV procedures of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation system. Extended repeated periods of aircraft noise, negative health and wellness impacts, and a lack of responsiveness from the agencies were common refrains. Officials from the FAA and Massport provided presentations on the NextGen system and air traffic at Logan International Airport. The forum was opened to the audience for questions and, after years of requests, residents finally had a chance to directly ask questions of both FAA and Massport officials. “The strong turnout at last night’s forum speaks to the significant concerns my constituents and the residents of surrounding cities and towns have with the current flight paths. Many communities are experiencing a disproportionate burden of airplane noise and there are negative health and quality of life implications. We cannot allow this to continue,” said Congressman Lynch. “We sent a clear message to the FAA and Massport last night and I am committed to holding these agencies accountable. We will work together to develop an action plan in order to more equitably distribute the pain of airplane noise,” Lynch added. The forum included remarks from Chair of the Milton Board of Selectmen J. Thomas Hurley, State Representative Walter F. Timilty, Congressman Michael E. Capuano, Congresswoman Katherine Clark, State Senator Brian A. Joyce, Flavio Leo of Massport, and President of the Logan Airport Community Advisory Committee Darryl Pomicter. Todd Freidenburg and Alan Hale of the FAA presented. Congressman Lynch moderated the question and answer portion of the forum. Since 2014, Congressman Lynch has called on the FAA to meet directly with concerned residents to discuss the adoption of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation system. The GPS-based flight system guides hundreds of flights per day with laser-like precision over a narrow flight path. While the RNAV procedures of the NextGen system can increase efficiency and save on jet fuel costs, the neighborhoods lying beneath those flight paths can experience extended periods of aircraft noise, raising health implications and negatively impacting the quality of life for local families. While the FAA has been open to meeting with elected officials, requests for constituent meetings have been denied in the past. Following a meeting with FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta and State Representative Timilty in Washington, D.C. in September, Congressman Lynch was able to secure an agreement that the FAA would participate in Thursday’s community forum in Milton. The video of the forum is available here, courtesy of Milton Access Television.
11.12.2015	BOSTON, MA – On Thursday, December 3, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will host a public forum at Milton High School to address growing complaints about the frequency and increased levels of airplane noise in local towns and neighborhoods that are impacted by Logan Airport air traffic. Much of the increase in noise coincides with the adoption of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation system. The GPS-based flight system guides hundreds of flights per day with laser-like precision over a narrow flight path. While the RNAV procedures of the NextGen system can increase efficiency and save on jet fuel costs, the neighborhoods lying beneath those flight paths can experience extended periods of aircraft noise, raising health implications and negatively impacting the quality of life for local families. Since 2014, Congressman Lynch has called on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to meet directly with concerned residents. While the FAA has been open to meeting with elected officials, requests for constituent meetings have been denied in the past. Following a meeting with FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta and State Representative Walter F. Timilty (D-Milton) in Washington, D.C. in September, Congressman Lynch was able to secure an agreement that the FAA would participate in a community forum in Milton. “The upcoming face-to-face meeting in Milton with FAA officials will allow people who are being impacted to have the opportunity to be heard. Local communities deserve to have more say in the FAA decision-making process. I am hopeful that through this forum we can increase community engagement and find a way to ease the disproportionate burden of airplane noise on residents of impacted communities,” said Congressman Lynch. The December 3 forum will be open to residents of all communities affected by the increase in airplane noise. In addition to a presentation from the FAA, the FAA representatives will hear directly from concerned residents during the question and answer portion of the program. The forum will be open to the press. The invited guests include: Representatives from the FAA Representatives from Massport Representatives from Logan Airport Community Advisory Committee Congressman Michael E. Capuano Congresswoman Katherine Clark State Senator Brian A. Joyce State Representative Walter F. Timilty Milton Town Administrator Annemarie Fagan WHAT: Airplane Noise Forum with the FAA WHEN: Thursday, December 3, 7:00 PM – 9:00 PM WHERE: Milton High School Auditorium 25 Gile Road, Milton, MA 02186
11.06.2015	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) released the following statement after the President signed the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 into law. Congressman Lynch introduced and successfully pushed the bipartisan legislation through Congress last month with the help of Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz, Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, and Senator Jon Tester (D-Mont.). “I am very pleased that President Obama signed H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act into law. This law will provide medical leave for returning disabled veterans who now work as federal employees, enabling them to receive treatment while transitioning into civilian life. As we approach Veterans Day, Congress has demonstrated the gratitude and deep appreciation for the hardship and sacrifices of our veterans and, in particular our wounded warriors, in service to our country. I thank Chairman Chaffetz and Ranking Member Cummings as well as Senator Tester for their collaboration on this bipartisan effort to support our wounded warriors,” said Congressman Lynch. H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015, provides federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 passed the House of Representatives unanimously on September 28, 2015 and passed the Senate unanimously on October 26, 2015. Senator Tester and Senator Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) introduced S. 242, the Senate companion bill, on January 22, 2015. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress. The text of the law is available here.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the lead Democrat on the Subcommittee on National Security, and Chairman Ron Desantis (R-FL-06) together held a hearing on the use of social media by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “As terrorists exploit social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, and WhatsApp to broadcast their message to a global audience, they are significantly extending their recruitment, mobilization, and financing efforts beyond the battlefields in Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “It is clear that we must strengthen our counterterrorism strategy to counter the social media threat posed by ISIL and other terrorist groups.” Terrorist groups are heavily using social media for recruitment and radicalization. According to the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, there are over 40,000 accounts actively supporting ISIL on Twitter with an estimated 2,000 accounts tweeting in English. The extensive social media presence of ISIL has extended the reach of terrorist groups and led to a rise in foreign fighters traveling to Iraq and Syria to join ISIL. The Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Travel reports that nearly 30,000 foreign fighters have traveled to Iraq and Syria since 2011 to join ISIL, including an estimated 250 individuals from the United States. The hearing included testimony from a panel of expert witnesses who focused their testimony and question responses on how to monitor and mitigate terrorist propaganda on social media. Testifying were: Ambassador Mark D. Wallace, Chief Executive Officer, Counter Extremism Project Mr. Walter Purdy, President, Terrorism Research Center Dr. Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, Senior Fellow, Foundation for Defense of Democracies Mr. Michael Rolince, Special Agent in Charge (Retired), Counter Terrorism Division, Washington Field Office, Federal Bureau of Investigation Ambassador Alberto M. Fernandez, Vice President, Middle East Media Research Institute
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday evening, the United States Senate unanimously passed legislation introduced by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), which affords wounded warriors the flexibility to receive medical care as they transition to serving the nation in a new capacity. H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015, provides federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. “I am very pleased that the Senate has passed H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act. Our bill will provide medical leave for returning disabled veterans who now work as federal employees, enabling them to receive treatment while transitioning into civilian life,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am very grateful that in a difficult political environment, this legislation is on its way to President Obama’s desk for his signature. I give great credit to Chairman Jason Chaffetz and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings in the House as well as Senator Jon Tester for his hard work to gain passage in the Senate. They are true champions of our wounded warriors,” Lynch added. “Veterans and their families have made tremendous sacrifices in defense of this country and should not be asked to take unpaid leave to get the care they need and have earned. The transition from active duty to civilian life is a tough one, and this bill should make that transition just a little easier,” said Senator Jon Tester (D-Mont.). The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 passed the House of Representatives unanimously on September 28, 2015. Senator Tester and Senator Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) introduced S. 242, the Senate companion bill, on January 22, 2015. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress. The text of the legislation is available here. Downloads » Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) and Massachusetts State Representative Walter F. Timilty (D-Milton) sat down in Washington, D.C. with Federal Aviation Administration Administrator Michael P. Huerta to discuss community concerns about the increase in airplane noise as a result of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation plan. The GPS-based flight system prioritizes efficiency, often at the expense of communities, by allowing negligible deviation from the flight path resulting in more planes over fewer communities. Congressman Lynch and State Representative Timilty have worked closely with residents and local elected officials to communicate concerns about the disproportionate burden on communities from the new flight paths. Since 2014, Congressman Lynch and State Representative Timilty have called on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to meet directly with concerned residents. While the FAA has been open to meeting with elected officials, requests for constituent meetings have been repeatedly denied. This week’s meeting signaled progress on the effort. The FAA agreed to participate in a community forum in Milton for all affected communities to discuss the impacts of airplane noise. They also heard concerns about violations of speed and altitude mitigation, which are in place to minimize noise. Separately, the FAA has begun to examine the metric of how to measure average Decibel Noise Level (DBL). “I do appreciate that Administrator Huerta met with us and that Rep. Timilty flew down to D.C. to emphasize the local impact that these flights are having in Milton and other towns in the South Shore as well as neighborhoods in Boston,” said Congressman Lynch. “I think we accomplished at least three things. One, we definitely expressed the painful frustration that we've had with the FAA's lack of responsiveness so far. Secondly, I think we accurately described the situation that the NextGen/RNav system has created where hundreds of flights per day are concentrated over a narrow corridor that passes directly over Milton and adjacent towns and neighborhoods and the negative quality of life and health impacts that this has had. And lastly, we persuaded Administrator Huerta that we need a face-to-face meeting in Milton with FAA officials so that the people who are being impacted the most have the opportunity to be heard and that together we can come up with a solution. We were assured that a meeting in Milton will happen soon.” “The flight plans that have been foisted upon Milton, as a result of the NextGen, GPS-based navigation plan, are immensely inequitable. The citizens of Milton have been severely affected by this configuration,” said State Representative Timilty. “Following our meeting with Administrator Huerta, it is my wish that the FAA will, going forward, engage in a continuous dialogue with the citizens of Milton, resulting in a far more equitable distribution of flight paths.” As a member of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus, Congressman Lynch has worked alongside his colleagues in the House to request that the FAA reauthorization bill include robust community engagement, additional metrics on the impact of airplane noise, and independent research on the health impact of airplane noise. The full text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Quiet Skies Caucus Letter 7-15-15
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s legislation H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015, passed unanimously on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 313 provides federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. “The bipartisan passage of the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act signifies our commitment to the dedicated wounded warriors continuing their service to our country by entering the federal workforce. As wounded warriors transition to civilian life through new careers in the federal workforce, they should not be saddled with the burden of no sick leave, which hinders their ability to keep service-related, medically-necessary appointments,” said Congressman Lynch, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on National Security. Newly hired federal employees begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. Many veterans are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with physical wounds, post-traumatic stress disorder, and other health issues. Congressman Lynch introduced H.R. 313 to address the concerns raised by many veterans regarding the substantial burden placed on wounded warriors in the federal workforce who have to skip appointments, rather than miss work. In order for eligible federal employees to make use of such leave, the bill requires employees to submit certification to their agency as prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management or the Postmaster General, in the case of postal employees. Given that these dedicated federal workers will have accumulated up to 104 hours of traditional federal sick leave by the beginning of their second year on the job, this legislation also provides that any unused “Wounded Warrior leave” would not be carried over to the following year. “Advancing this important legislation affords our wounded warriors the flexibility to receive medical care as they transition to serving our nation in a new capacity,” Lynch added. “I extend my sincere thanks to Chairman of the House Oversight Committee Jason Chaffetz and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings for their leadership bringing this important legislation to the floor. I also thank the over thirty members of Congress from both sides of the aisle who co-sponsored H.R. 313.” H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015, has received endorsements from a number of federal employee and veterans’ organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion. It is also strongly supported by the thirty-one member organizations of the Federal Postal Coalition, which represent nearly 5 million federal and postal workers and annuitants. The bipartisan legislation was introduced by Congressman Lynch on January 13, 2015. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) and Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced S. 242, the Senate companion bill, on January 22, 2015. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress. The text of the legislation is available here. Downloads » H.R. 313 the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing held its fifth hearing, which focused on examining the federal government’s efforts to disrupt terrorism financing. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) serves as the lead Democrat on the Task Force. “The United States has a robust framework of regulations, which squeezes terrorists out of the formal financial system and promotes collaboration among law enforcement and international financial intelligence agencies,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “As ISIL utilizes illicit oil sales, regional taxation, and antiquities dealing to fund its terrorist activities, our national and global approach to disrupt terror financing must evolve to address these modern complexities. Over the past six months, the Task Force has worked diligently to examine areas for improvement. Today’s witnesses provided important insight into how Congress can work in a bipartisan manner to strengthen our federal policies to halt the bankrolling of extremism.” The hearing, entitled “Could America Do More? An Examination of U.S. Efforts to Stop the Financing of Terror,” included testimony from a panel of expert witnesses focused on providing an assessment of current anti-money laundering and terrorism financing regulations and policy proposals to improve the United States’ strategy to counter terror financing. Testifying was: Dr. Louise Shelley, Founder and Director, Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center, George Mason University Mr. Daniel Larkin, Former FBI Unit Chief; Founder of the National Cyber Forensics & Training Alliance Mr. Scott Modell, Managing Director, The Rapidan Group Ms. Elizabeth Rosenberg, Senior Fellow and Director, Energy, Economics and Security Program, Center for a New American Security Since its formation in March, the bipartisan Task Force, led by Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Lynch, held hearings and briefings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current authority. The Task Force will present a report of its findings as well as recommendations for additional legislation as necessary.
09.08.2015	BOSTON, MA – On Sunday, September 27, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) will host an information session for all high school students interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions: · United States Military Academy at West Point, NY · United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD · United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO · United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY · United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT All students and their families from the Eighth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, September 27, 2015 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree 02184 CONTACT: Bob Fowkes, (617) 428-2000
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, and Representatives Jim McGovern, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and Bill Keating announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a total of $19,237,879 in grants to seven Massachusetts fire departments and the Quincy-based Fire Protection Research Foundation. The grants, which will support equipment acquisition, training, and staffing, were awarded to the Upton Fire Emergency Medical Services, Duxbury Fire Department, Halifax Fire Department, Lawrence Fire Department, Fall River Fire Department, Boston Fire Department, and Bourne Fire Department. "Firefighters put themselves in harm's way every day to protect our neighborhoods and keep our families safe," said Senator Warren. "These grants will help ensure that Massachusetts' fire departments have the staffing, tools and resources they need to do their jobs safely and effectively. Our fire chiefs and their departments deserve credit for their efforts to get these grants, and I want to thank them for their tireless service to the community." "Massachusetts is the Bay State, and our firefighters and first responders make it the Brave State," Senator Markey said. "This federal funding will help our fire departments across the Commonwealth keep their communities safe and secure with the equipment and support they need. I congratulate the recipients for all of their efforts securing these grants and express my gratitude for their service on the front lines keeping Massachusetts safe." "Our communities are safer thanks to the brave service of our local firefighters," Congressman McGovern said. "With these grants, we are making a strong investment in our Massachusetts firefighters, ensuring they have the tools and resources they need to protect our families and neighborhoods. I join my colleagues across the Commonwealth in thanking our Massachusetts firefighters and fire chiefs for their tireless service and the sacrifices they make every day to keep all of us safe." "Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need proper equipment and training to do their jobs. The Fire Prevention & Safety grant will allow Quincy's Fire Protection Research Foundation to continue its critical work to address challenges in the fire industry, including fire detection and firefighter safety," said Congressman Lynch. "In addition, the federal funding for the Boston Fire Department will provide necessary tools to keep Boston's families and firefighters safe. This grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Mayor Marty Walsh, Commissioner Joseph Finn, and the entire Boston Fire Department." "The Lawrence Fire Department received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their application and the Department in general," Congresswoman Tsongas said. "Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently." "One of the most important impacts our government can have is providing our first responders with the most modern, efficient equipment available," said Congressman Keating. "The benefits of grants to firefighters are seen day in and day out in the lives saved and the communities protected." The following grants were announced today through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S), and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant programs: Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Upton Fire Emergency Medical Services - Upton, MA - Federal Share: $173,334.00, for operation and safety Duxbury Fire Department - Duxbury, MA -Federal Share: $166,667.00, for vehicle acquisition Halifax Fire Department - Halifax, MA -Federal Share: $714,210.00, for vehicle acquisition Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Lawrence Fire Department - Lawrence, MA - Federal Share: $1,181,222.00, for hiring Fall River Fire Department - Fall River, MA - Federal Share: $2,060,920.00, for hiring Boston Fire Department - Boston, MA - Federal Share: $12,778,650.00, for hiring Bourne Fire Department - Bourne, MA -Federal Share: $1,333,104.00, for hiring Fire Prevention & Safety (FP &S) Fire Protection Research Foundation - Quincy, MA - Federal Share: $829,772.00, for research and prevention The AFG and SAFER grant programs are administered by FEMA to ensure that local fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations have the staffing, resources and equipment they need to protect communities and emergency personnel from fires and other related hazards. The FP&S grants support projects that help protect firefighters and the public, including research into firefighter safety. More information on the AFG, SAFER, and FP&S grant programs is available here.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Blake Farenthold (TX-27) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 3282, the Protecting Honest Fishermen Act of 2015. This bill will level the playing field for honest American fishermen who are playing by the rules and competing with illegal and mislabeled products. This bill will require important information to accompany the seafood from the boat to the end consumer. Currently, U.S. fishermen already provide this information, but out of country seafood suppliers do not have to follow the same disclosure requirements. This bill will also help improve systems for seafood safety, legality, traceability, and consumer information. “Every day American fishermen are out on the water complying with an abundance of Federal regulations,” said Congressman Farenthold. “While international fishermen simply pull into American ports and off load their catches without following the same rules. It’s time to level the playing field and require all seafood sold in the U.S. to supply the same information. It’s about transparency and protecting our hardworking men and woman in the seafood industry.” “The fishing industry shapes the economic and cultural history of Massachusetts’ coastal communities. Seafood fraud puts the health of consumers and the livelihood of fishermen at risk. The Protecting Honest Fishermen Act of 2015 will improve seafood safety and traceability so consumers are purchasing seafood products that are legal and safe to eat,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am pleased to partner with Congressman Blake Farenthold on this important legislation, which will increase transparency and protect U.S. fishermen from the damaging economic impact of seafood fraud.” The Protecting Honest Fishermen Act of 2015 expands seafood traceability to all species, requiring “bait to plate” traceability for consumers, authorizes import refusal of mislabeled seafood, improves interagency cooperation and tracks perpetrators of seafood fraud. The full text of H.R. 3282, the Protecting Honest Fishermen Act of 2015, can be viewed here.
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s legislation H.R. 995, the Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act, passed on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives as part of H.R. 675, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015. H.R. 675, introduced by Congressman Ralph Abraham (R-LA), authorizes the annual cost-of-living adjustment for veterans' service-connected disability compensation and makes changes to several benefit programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The bill passed by a vote of 409-0. The Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act calls for two minutes of silence every Veterans Day to recognize and reflect on the service and sacrifice of all veterans, past and present. The set time of 2:11 PM EST allows for all 50 states and Puerto Rico to take part. “We owe our brave veterans an enormous debt of gratitude. They have served to defend our country and the freedoms that we cherish. This moment of silence is a way for all Americans to come together, regardless of ideology, and give these courageous men and women the thanks they deserve,” said Congressman Lynch. The Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act was the inspiration of the Bendetson family: Daniel, Michael, and their father, Dr. Peter Bendetson, of Weston, Massachusetts. “It was my honor and privilege to bring forth this bill on behalf of the Bendetson family,” said Congressman Lynch. “Taking time to give thanks to our military is something we can all agree on. I thank Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL) and Ranking Member Corrine Brown (D-FL) for incorporating my bill into H.R. 675 and am pleased that it has passed in the House of Representatives.”
07.17.2015	In Iran deal, opportunity and risk By Stephen F. Lynch JULY 17, 2015 BOSTON GLOBE OP-ED The nuclear agreement with Iran presents us with opportunity as well as risk. It clearly states in its “Preamble and General Provisions”: “Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will Iran ever seek, develop or acquire any nuclear weapons.” If it were only that simple. The agreement also affirms Iran’s right to develop a “peaceful nuclear programme” for energy purposes just like any other nation. Therein lies the problem: Iran is not any other nation. It is a supporter of terrorism. Its leaders have steadfastly denied the Holocaust and denounced Israel’s right to exist. “Death to America” remains a popular theme in Tehran. We can’t trust Iran’s leaders, so we have sought to contain them. The multilayered sanctions imposed by the US and its allies have weighed heavily on Iran. Iran’s oil, coal, auto, aircraft, financial, and textile industries are reeling from US-led sanctions. Due to the embargo of aircraft components, visitors regularly express dread at the prospect of flying within Iran because of the woeful condition of their domestic airlines. Iran’s policies have brought isolation and few allies. Indeed many experts view the election of President Hassan Rouhani, the more moderate candidate, as an expression of the Iranian people’s desire to move in a new direction. All this has created the opportunity for President Obama and Secretary John Kerry to try to forge an agreement that could make the world a safer place. Safer for the US, safer for the EU, and yes, safer for Israel. The agreement authorizes inspectors to conduct a forensic study of the Iranian nuclear threat and also reprograms Iran’s existing nuclear facilities for domestic energy purposes. While the opportunity is here, the trust necessary to move forward is not. Fortunately, the agreement does not require us to place our trust in Iran. Under its terms and the “road map” for the clarification of nuclear issues in Iran, this entire agreement hinges on the adoption and implementation of a rigorous International Atomic Energy Agency inspection, monitoring, and guidance procedure. Indeed, the agreement relies more on the IAEA inspectors than on any other party. Because in the absence of trust, we will need the IAEA’s assurance that Iran will remain in compliance. Lastly, we should not fall into the trap of thinking that every Iranian citizen agrees with their former president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. We must seek their better angels. As novelist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn said, “The line separating good and evil passes not through states, nor between classes, nor between political parties either — but right through every human heart.” While we should move forward with care and every precaution for ourselves and for our allies, let us nonetheless move forward. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a Democrat, represents Massachusetts’ 8th District.
07.10.2015	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D – Boston), the leading Democrat on the House National Security Subcommittee, responded to the resignation of the Director of the Office of Personnel Management: “I enthusiastically support the president's decision to accept the resignation of OPM Director Katherine Archuleta. The failure to protect highly sensitive and personal information of 25 million Americans and tens of thousands of strategic and intelligence personnel is a near catastrophic blow to our national security. While there may be very little information remaining at OPM that has not been hacked, I am hopeful that the next Director of OPM will be chosen carefully based on the urgency and seriousness of the task and the skill and ability required to accomplish it.”
07.01.2015	ANKARA, TURKEY – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the leading Democrat on the House National Security Subcommittee, completed a two-day visit to Turkey as part of a Congressional Delegation led by U.S. Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) and including Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Worcester). As tensions grow along the border of Turkey and Syria, the delegation traveled to Gaziantep, north of the Syrian border, to meet with Syrian opposition leaders and local council representatives, Syrian rebel fighters and independent media activists. Following his meetings in Gaziantep, Congressman Lynch stated, “We really need full verification and transparency from the Syrian opposition forces before we agree to provide any weapons and training. Not every rebel fighting Bashar al-Assad is pro-democracy or moderate,” said Lynch, who cautioned “major challenges remain as we try to recruit, train and equip these groups to fight ISIL. This is a very difficult task and their success is far from certain.” The Syrian civil war has displaced more than 3 million people and more than 1.8 million refugees have fled to Turkey. While in Gaziantep, the delegation visited the Syrian American Medical Society office that provides refugees with critical basic services. "This is a growing crisis with no easy answers. Currently there are 500,000 school age children who are not being educated. If we don't act quickly, this lost generation will become a receptive audience to the jihadist message. We have to encourage our international neighbors to do their part to ease the suffering of these refugees and restore stability to this region,” added Lynch.
06.30.2015	GAZIANTEP, TURKEY – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch released the following statement on the passing of State Senator Thomas P. Kennedy: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend, Senator Tom Kennedy. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends and his staff. Tom Kennedy was a wonderful reflection of the City of Brockton, his City of Champions. Tom personified his home city in many ways; his willingness to fight for those who needed a voice at the State House, his huge heart that had room for those struggling with homelessness or substance abuse; and his indomitable spirit amidst his own physical challenges – he was an example to us all.”
06.30.2015	Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-Boston) met with Kurdish President Masoud Barzani in Iraq to discuss ongoing military operations against ISIL GAZIANTEP, TURKEY - Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston), the leading Democrat on the House National Security Subcommittee, arrived today in Gaziantep, Turkey after spending four days in Kuwait, Iraq, and Jordan. Lynch is part of a Congressional Delegation led by Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and including Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Worcester) focused on assessing the fight against ISIL and the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Iraq and Syria. Amidst reports that Kurdish fighters are struggling in the war against ISIL, the delegation traveled to Erbil and met with Kurdistan Regional Government President Masoud Barzani, Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani, and humanitarian groups. President Barzani and Prime Minister Barzani thanked the U.S. and Coalition partners for critical airstrikes and urged greater support for the ongoing war against ISIL. Congressman Lynch was an early congressional supporter of the Kurdistan Regional Government’s request for U.S. military equipment and intelligence assistance in its efforts against ISIL. During the meetings, the delegation emphasized the need for closer Erbil-Baghdad cooperation. They also expressed appreciation to local leaders in Erbil, including Archbishop Warda of the Chaldean Catholic Church, for the role these individuals are playing in providing assistance and protection for religious minorities. Following the ISIS capture of Ramadi, a provincial capital, the delegation met with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi in Baghdad to discuss efforts to strengthen ties with Sunni tribes in Anbar province. The delegation also met with Iraqi Minister of Defense Khaled al-Obeidi, Speaker of the Iraqi Parliament Salim al-Jabouri, Anbar Governor Suhaib al-Rawi, and several Sunni tribal sheiks to hear their perspectives on the current challenges to national reconciliation efforts, including winning the battle against ISIL. Throughout the meetings, Congressman Lynch stressed the importance of the Iraqis leading the efforts to defeat ISIL, noting that training efforts have been hampered by a lack of Iraqi recruits. “As the U.S. and coalition partners provide air support, it is critically important that Iraq's Shia, Sunni and Kurdish ground forces lead this battle and that they fight as one,” said Congressman Lynch. The delegation also met with U.S. service members as well as foreign service officers, including some from Massachusetts, to thank them for their service and sacrifice. The delegation will head to the Turkey/Syria border region to meet with rebel fighters. Other delegation members include Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, Congressman Brian Higgins and Congressman Peter Welch. This visit marks Congressman Lynch’s 16th to Iraq since his election to Congress in 2001.
06.28.2015	KUWAIT CITY, KUWAIT – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston) paid respects to the Emir of Kuwait Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah at a memorial in Kuwait City last night. The suicide attack at the Imam al Sadiq Mosque killed 27 people and wounded 227. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has taken credit for the bombing. Congressman Lynch is the leading Democrat on the House National Security Subcommittee and is part of a delegation reviewing security issues across the Middle East. “I offer my deepest sympathy and prayers to the victims, their families and the people of Kuwait at this difficult time. The attacks against the innocent worshippers at Imam al Sadiq Mosque is a cowardly act of brutality that must be condemned by all freedom-loving people,” said Congressman Lynch.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) released the following statement on the Supreme Court decision on marriage equality: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is a giant step towards equality for the LGBT community. The Court has sustained our commitment to the principle of equal protection enshrined in the Constitution. Gay and lesbian couples and their families deserve to be treated with equality, respect, and dignity under the law across the United States."
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, NOAA recommended over $25 million in funding to be awarded to 88 projects under the FY14-15 Saltonstall-Kennedy Grants Program. Of that amount, the greater Atlantic region would receive over $8.8 million. Massachusetts would receive approximately $3 million from the greater Atlantic portion. These funds go toward increased research and development for the fishing industry. “Better science and research improves fisheries management and helps our fishing industry modernize for the long term,” Senator Warren said. "It's great that NOAA has recommended funding for several projects in Massachusetts that would benefit our local fishing communities." "This new NOAA funding gives Massachusetts's fishing industry the opportunity to expand its understanding of ocean ecosystems and enhance the resilience of local fisheries and the seaside communities they support,” said Sen. Edward J. Markey, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “The recent groundfish fishery disaster has had a devastating economic impact on the fishing industry and the businesses that depend on it – causing economic harm to our fishermen and our fishing communities. These funds will drive new research that will help us respond to the groundfish fishery disaster today and develop a sustainable fishery for the future." “It is my belief that this grant program is one of the strongest tools in NOAA’s arsenal,” said Rep. Bill Keating, who represents the Port of New Bedford, the highest grossing commercial fishing port in the Northeast, as well as Chatham and Provincetown on Cape Cod. “We know that the way to fix the problems plaguing our nation’s fisheries is through better science. And better science leads to better management. To this end, I was proud to reintroduce legislation this year that would ensure fishermen are directly involved in utilizing Saltonstall-Kennedy funding to promote research and development that will impact their livelihoods.” "This is good news on two fronts," said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch. "NOAA's investment in better technology will help Massachusetts’ fishermen, and the New England Aquarium will be able to continue its work on bycatch and promoting sustainable fisheries. That is much appreciated." "In recent years, Gloucester’s fishing industry has been devastated by the New England ground fish disaster,” said Rep. Seth Moulton. “The funding awarded to the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange (CASE) will not only allow for critical repairs and upgrades to the facility, but will also enhance the City’s efforts to stabilize and rebuild the harvesting, processing and marketing sectors of the region's fishing industry. I am grateful to NOAA for supporting this important initiative that benefits the fishermen, the environment, and our local economy.” Among the Massachusetts projects recommended for funding are: two Coonamessett Farm Foundation, Inc. projects seeking to improve ecosystem-friendly scallop dredges and research offshore essential fish habitat of Southern New England winter flounder; four University of Massachusetts Dartmouth projects that will improve the cost-effectiveness and capacity for observations and maximize fishing opportunities and jobs; multiple awards for the New England Aquarium; substantial funding for the Center for Coastal Studies to reduce bycatch in the sea scallop fishery; and substantial funding for the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange to support infrastructure and innovation.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) together held the third hearing of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, focusing on the threats posed by terror organizations acting within or against the United States’ financial sector. “With terror’s global scope, it is vital the U.S. works with the international community to address today’s international terrorism financing challenges. However, it is equally important we look inward to assess the security of our own financial sector,” said Chairman Fitzpatrick. “The U.S. financial sector is too important for this task force to overlook when seeking to address the nexus of terrorism and finance. The continued innovation and evolution by our enemies highlights the importance of this body’s role in the fight against terror.” “As terrorists update their financing operations, we must reevaluate the strength of our countermeasures and also maintain a robust framework to detect and prevent cybersecurity intrusions,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “While law enforcement follows the money trail to identify terrorist threats abroad, we must also prevent the United States from being a destination for money laundering by criminals and terrorist groups.” Terrorist groups and actors are constantly seeking to exploit the U.S. financial system to fund their operations and launder their revenue. The growth and complexity of the international financial system has also enabled illicit actors to place and move money, hide assets, and conduct transactions anywhere in the world, exposing financial centers to exploitation and abuse. These actors seek to circumvent anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing measures by, among other things, taking advantage of the unsettled area of beneficial ownership to form shell corporations. The U.S. financial services sector has also been recognized as a prime target for sophisticated and coordinated cyber-attacks. The hearing included testimony from a panel of expert witnesses who focused their testimony and questions responses on areas of U.S. strengthen and weakness in combatting terror threats to the U.S. banking system. Testifying was: · The Honorable Cyrus Vance, Jr., District Attorney, New York County District Attorney’s Office · Mr. Chip Poncy, Founding Partner, Financial Integrity Network; Senior Counselor, Center on Sanctions and Illicit Finance at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies · Mr. John W. Carlson, Chief of Staff, Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center Professor Celina B. Realuyo, Professor of Practice, William J. Perry Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies, National Defense University Over the next six months, the task force will hold further hearings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current authority and work to ensure terror groups are unable to finance their operations, especially through the American financial system. In September, the task force will present a report of its findings as well as recommendations for additional legislation if needed.
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) released the following statement in response to the House consideration of H.R. 1314, Trade Act of 2015. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is on the wrong track. This trade agreement includes several countries with abysmal records on human rights and labor and environmental protection. And TPP does nothing to guarantee that will change. Instead, it would continue the exploitation of foreign workers. Congress should not give up its constitutional power to be engaged in the process by voting for fast-track authority. A vote for fast-track is a vote against transparency and a vote to take Congress out of the debate. We should be creating American jobs, increasing wages, and promoting economic growth. The current TPP does the opposite. I refuse to relinquish my right to fix a trade agreement that will export American jobs. I voted no on fast-track because it fails the American people and I will continue to pursue ways to prevent a bad trade deal from being passed without the chance for public debate.”
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY), U.S. Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), and Thomas Massie (R-KY) and former U.S. Senator Bob Graham (D-FL) stood today with family members of victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks to announce new bipartisan legislation, S.1471, known as the Transparency for the Families of 9/11 Victims and Survivors Act of 2015. The legislation, co-sponsored by Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), would require President Obama to declassify and make available to the public the redacted 28 pages from the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001, which have been obscured from the public for over 13 years. Also participating in the press conference was Terry Strada, National Chair of the 9/11 Families and Survivors United For Justice Against Terrorism, her daughter Kaitlyn Strada, and Abraham Scott, husband of a victim of the 9/11 attacks. Reps. Lynch, Jones, and Massie introduced H. Res. 14 in January, a resolution calling on President Obama to declassify the redacted 28 pages. The resolution further states that declassification of the pages is necessary to provide the American public with the full truth surrounding the tragic events of September 11, 2001. “I stand with my colleagues today to call for the release of the final 28 pages of the 9/11 Congressional Inquiry. I firmly believe the family members of the victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks have the right to know the details surrounding the tragedies that occurred on that sad day. The American people deserve a government that instills trust and a restoration of their sense of security, and I believe that the Transparency for the Families of the 9/11 Victims and Survivors Act is a step in the right direction,” Sen. Paul said. “I introduced H. Res. 14 to urge President Obama to declassify the 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry report into 9/11 because the 9/11 families deserve peace and the American people deserve the truth,” said Rep. Jones. “Releasing these pages will enhance our national security, not harm it. I am pleased that Senator Paul, Senator Wyden, and Senator Gillibrand have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. I look forward to the day when the 28 pages are declassified, and I will not stop fighting until that happens. The American people deserve to know what led to the tragic attacks on September 11, 2001.” “The 9/11 report was meant to shed light on the circumstances that led to that horrific day, and a lack of transparency undermines that intent at the expense of victims, their families and Americans. The declassification of these pages is long-overdue, and I am hopeful my colleagues in both the Senate and House will join in our fight for the transparency Americans deserve,” said Sen. Gillibrand. “If the FBI wants to say publicly that they have investigated all of the leads identified in this report, they are free to do so,” Sen. Wyden said. “But that doesn’t justify blacking out an entire section of the report. Information should only be classified to protect national security, not simply because it is inconvenient or dated.” “Our nation suffered a tremendous loss on September 11th, 2001. The victims of the terrorist attacks, their families and our country as a whole deserve a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding those attacks. After careful review of the 28 pages, I believe the full bicameral, bipartisan congressional report should be made public. This will be an important step toward answering some of the questions that remain,” said Rep. Lynch. “It may have been a matter of national security to classify these pages in 2002, but it is a now a matter of justice and responsible governance to make them public in 2015.” “If avoiding another 9/11 is going to be the justification for involving us in more wars in the Middle East, then the American people need a complete picture of what enabled 9/11. The declassification of these 28 pages will reshape our foreign policy in the Middle East. Based on my reading of the documents, I am confident that making these 28 pages public would enhance, not harm, national security. I look forward to continue this effort with Senator Paul, Representative Jones, and Representative Lynch and urge my colleagues to read the pages and cosponsor H. Res. 14 in the House and S. 1471 in the Senate,” Rep. Massie said.
06.01.2015	Washington, DC – Today, an amendment to reform the use of monies in the Asset Forfeiture Fund (AFF), which was submitted by Massachusetts Reps. Bill Keating (MA-09), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), and Seth Moulton (MA-06), passed the US House of Representatives. The amendment is now included in H.R. 1335, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act. The amendment would ensure that monies in the AFF are used for: 1) fishery research and stock assessments, 2) at-sea and shore-side monitoring, 3) conservation gear engineering, 4) fishery impact statements, and 5) other priorities established by the Regional Fishery Management Councils in order to rebuild or maintain sustainable fisheries, ensure healthy ecosystems, and maintain fishing communities. “In 2010, the Department of Commerce Inspector General audited the AFF and determined that there had been misuse, waste, and abuse in the distribution of monies – many times often going to activities unrelated to the fishing industry,” said Rep. Keating. “NOAA responded by setting limits as to how the funds in the AFF can be used. We need more than direction on how the money can’t be spent. We need parameters on how the money should be spent. This is a simple, straightforward amendment that provides more science and resources to an industry that desperately needs it. There is no such thing as ‘too many’ hard facts or data, and the ability to use them to better inform fisheries management.” “We cannot allow the money in the NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund to be wasted when fishermen stand to benefit from targeted scientific research and resources dedicated to the fishing industry,” said Rep. Lynch. “I am proud to join Representatives Keating and Moulton on this important amendment that will reduce government waste and improve fisheries management in Massachusetts and across the country.” “Fishermen and environmentalists want the same thing: healthy and sustainable fisheries,” said Rep. Moulton. “This amendment will help achieve that objective through meaningful and targeted uses of NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund. I’m proud to partner with Representatives Lynch and Keating on our shared commitment to protect and enhance our Commonwealth’s fishing community." Rep. Keating’s first piece of original legislation as a Member of Congress was H.R. 1013, the Strengthen Fisheries Management in New England Act, which required that penalties collected from New England fishermen and invested in NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund be used to improve the management of New England fisheries. H.R. 1013 specifically directed the US Secretary of Commerce to provide the New England Fishery Management Council with the AFF funds that have been collected from New England fishermen for direct use toward improving the research and management of New England’s fisheries.
05.22.2015	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) called on the Committee on Financial Services to examine current lapses in the federal oversight of equity markets in light of recent allegations surrounding the May 2010 Flash Crash. Last month, the Department of Justice and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) announced that they were bringing criminal and civil charges against Navinder Singh Sarao, a U.K. trader who allegedly helped cause the May 6, 2010 Flash Crash, by manipulating the global financial market through the practice of spoofing. Congressman Lynch was joined by three members of the Committee on Financial Services in his request for a hearing to conduct critical oversight over the threat of fraud to the world’s financial system. “Almost five years after the CFTC blamed the Flash Crash on a single trade from a brokerage firm in Kansas City, Missouri, we are learning that an individual was able to repeatedly manipulate the market from the comfort of his own home in the United Kingdom. We must get all the facts in the cases against Navinder Sarao and determine how regulators can effectively protect the dynamic financial marketplace from damaging fraud. Reforming our federal oversight of equity markets is an important step towards increasing the confidence of average investors in the security of the financial system,” said Congressman Lynch.\ The full text of the letter is available here. Downloads » Flash Crash Hearing Request Letter May 22 2015.pdf
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) together held the second hearing of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, focusing on the intersection of organized crime, corruption and international terrorism. “Terrorist groups have become entwined with trans-national criminal syndicates - or in some cases evolving into the role themselves - engaging in criminal activities which yield greater profits than simply relying on state sponsorship or big pocket donors,” said Chairman Fitzpatrick. “Groups like Hezbollah, the Islamic State, and Boko Haram can no longer simply be considered terrorist groups; they’ve evolved into sophisticated global criminal conglomerates. In order to effectively combat such volatile threats, U.S. policy must also evolve as well.” “The interplay of crime, terrorism, and corruption is playing out in hotspots around the world. As a nation, we must work to halt potential funding sources for terrorist organizations, including drug and human trafficking, counterfeiting, and money laundering,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “Today’s hearing sheds light on the pervasiveness of these threats and ways to prevent terrorist and transnational criminal groups from thriving in insecure regions across the globe.” The dangerous merger of terrorist and criminal organizations provide lucrative funding opportunities through acts like political corruption, drug trafficking, human smuggling, and extortion. These funding methods, on top of the other non-traditional means discussed at the task force’s last hearing, explain how today’s terror organizations are often better financed than their predecessors. The hearing included testimony from a panel of expert witnesses who focused their testimony and questions responses on areas of U.S. strength and weakness in addressing the challenges of the nexus of terror groups and organized crime as well as highlighting regions where these activities exist. Testifying was: Dr. David Asher, Board Member, Center on Sanctions and Illicit Finance, Foundation for Defense of Democracies and Adjunct Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security Mr. Richard Barrett, Senior Vice President, The Soufan Group Mr. Douglas Farah, President, IBI Consultants LLC; Senior Non-Resident Associate, Americas Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies and Senior Fellow, International Assessment and Strategy Center Professor Celina B. Realuyo, Professor of Practice, William J. Perry Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies, National Defense University Over the next six months, the task force will hold further hearings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current authority and work to ensure terror groups are unable to finance their operations, especially through the American financial system. In September, the task force will present a report of its findings as well as recommendations for additional legislation if needed.
05.18.2015	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) recently introduced H.R. 2175, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Oversight & Cost Savings Act. The bill would improve federal oversight of the prescription drug benefits available to federal workers, retirees, and their families through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). H.R. 2175 would also better ensure that program enrollees and the American taxpayer are receiving the best prescription drug benefit for their dollar. As the largest employer-sponsored health insurance program in the nation, the FEHBP covers approximately 8.2 million federal workers, annuitants, and dependents. According to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the FEHBP provides an estimated $45 billion in health care benefits per year and spends over $10 billion of that total on prescription drug costs alone. Despite the fact that prescription drug costs compromise nearly 30% of FEHBP premiums, the program’s pharmacy benefit and pricing structure has been subject to limited federal oversight. In addition, in contrast to other federal programs, the FEHBP does not regulate or negotiate drug pricing for its enrollees. Instead, it relies on competition among its various carriers and so-called Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) to negotiate prescription drug benefits and maintain affordable prices. Regrettably, the FEHBP is paying between 15% and 45% more for its prescription drugs than other federal programs, including those at the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Public Health Service’s 340B Program. The FEHBP is even experiencing higher prescription drug costs than some non-federal and private sector programs. “If we’re seeking responsible alternatives to addressing deficit reduction and reining in health care costs, strong oversight of the FEHBP prescription drug benefit would be a commonsense starting point,” said Congressman Lynch. “H.R. 2175 will serve to maximize cost savings and enhance the program’s ability to offer high-quality and low-cost prescription drugs for federal employees by enhancing oversight provisions that allow for alternative contracting and pricing mechanisms and mandating increased transparency. My legislation will lower federal employees’ out-of-pocket spending and the program’s operational costs which benefits both enrollees and taxpayers.” In particular, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Oversight & Cost Savings Act provides the OPM increased oversight authority of the FEHBP’s prescription drug contracting and pricing methods in order to better ensure that federal workers are receiving the best benefits at the best price. Among the strong oversight provisions included in the legislation is a requirement that PBMs, who currently contract with individual insurance plans to provide FEHBP prescription drug benefits, return 99% of all rebates, market share incentives, and other monies received from pharmaceutical manufacturers for FEHBP business. In addition, the legislation would prohibit “drug switching” without prior physician approval, impose new disclosure and transparency requirements on PBMs in line with industry trends, and cap prescription drug prices paid by the FEHBP at the amount of the Average Manufacture Price. H.R. 2175, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Oversight & Cost Savings Act, has received the support of several key FEHBP stakeholders including the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), and the Federal Managers Association. “AFGE thanks Representative Lynch for once again recognizing the importance of federal employees having access to quality health care benefits through FEHBP. The FEHBP Prescription Drug Oversight & Cost Savings Act would protect federal employees from paying more than they should for prescription drugs and provide more oversight of prescription drug benefits,” said AFGE National President J. David Cox. “For the past five years federal employees have endured attacks on their pay and benefits, and on average watched their health care contributions continually increase. We thank the Congressman for introducing legislation that makes FEHBP more efficient and ensures that federal employees and taxpayers get the most return for their dollars.” “NTEU strongly supports Congressman Lynch’s FEHBP reform bill that would result in lower prescription drug costs – it’s a win-win for taxpayers and federal employees and retirees,” said NTEU National President Colleen Kelley. “A long-time leader in health care access, choice, and quality, it’s time to make FEHBP the model for prescription drug purchasing and disclosure.” H.R. 2175 is co-sponsored by Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC).
05.14.2015	The Little Match Girl by Isabelle Xu WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) recently announced that Isabelle Xu of Westwood has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” in the Eighth Congressional District. The annual art competition is open to all high school students across the nation. The winning piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 15 young artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings and collages, among other mediums. In the end, the judges selected a colored pencil drawing entitled “The Little Match Girl” by Isabelle Xu, a junior at Westwood High School. The drawing highlighted advanced techniques of shading and was imaginative and creative. Isabelle’s artwork has been flown to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Isabelle Xu is a wonderfully gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch. “Her artwork is a reflection of her talent and hard work. I hope that Isabelle’s success will encourage other students from Westwood and across the Eighth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch added, “It is obvious from this competition that we have a number of gifted young artists in the Eighth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their dedicated parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of the upcoming National Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently introduced H.R. 2274, a Bill to Establish a National EMS Memorial. The legislation creates the National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation, which will undertake the effort of designing, siting, and creating a memorial in Washington, D.C to honor the service and sacrifice of the nation’s EMS members. Each year, 850,000 EMS providers answer more than 30 million calls to serve 22 million patients in need of care at a moment’s notice and without reservation. According to the Department of Labor and the National Highway Safety Administration, EMS providers die in the line of duty at a rate more than twice the national average for all occupational fatalities. In addition, during their careers, EMS providers experience an injury rate of virtually 100 percent. Over 600 men and women who served have made the ultimate sacrifice while performing their duties. H.R. 2274 will ensure that that a commemorative work is created in the nation’s capital that will recognize the ultimate sacrifice of EMS providers and will honor the dedication of EMS members nationwide. “I am proud to introduce this legislation to establish a memorial to honor the dedicated service and ongoing commitment of the men and women of our EMS across the nation,” said Congressman Lynch. “This memorial is long overdue. EMS providers are a critical component of our nation’s homeland and national security efforts. The men and women of EMS are often our nation’s first line of defense in the prevention and mitigation of risk from terrorist attacks, man-made incidents, and natural disasters, putting their lives on the line every day in order to provide critical care for their patients. It is time to recognize the efforts of our EMS and memorialize the selfless and ultimate sacrifice made by more than 600 members of the nation’s EMS, their families, and loved ones.” “The commitment and service of EMS providers is a part of our everyday lives as Americans without really thinking about it all too often. But the ultimate sacrifice of these same providers should never be something we take for granted,” said Katie Orsino, Executive Director of the National EMS Memorial Foundation. “We want to thank Congressman Lynch for his continued commitment and support for the men and women of EMS and for the National EMS Memorial Foundation and its mission.” H.R. 2274 is co-sponsored by Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), Congressman Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Congressman James McGovern (D-MA), Congressman William Keating (D-MA), Congressman Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA), and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO).
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Stephen F. Lynch, Rosa DeLauro, David Cicilline, Raul Grijalva, Alan Grayson, Marcy Kaptur, Barbara Lee, Rick Nolan, Donald Norcross, Mark Pocan, Tim Ryan, Jan Schakowsky, Louise Slaughter, and Paul Tonko released the following statement on the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan fast track bill and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “Our opposition to the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan Fast Track bill and the Trans-Pacific Partnership is based on many hours of in-depth review and analysis. We have formulated our views based on reviewing key elements of the draft TPP text, receiving information from administration officials, and reviewing studies of the TPP’s prospective outcomes. On this basis, we have concluded that the TPP will not contribute to economic growth, create additional American jobs or raise wages, or set high standards for labor rights or the environment. Likewise, we have carefully reviewed the proposed Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill, which replicates much of the 2014 Camp-Baucus Fast Track proposal and the Fast Track bill that was enacted in 2002. We oppose the Fast Track bill because it provides no functional processes for Congress to remove a trade pact from Fast Track treatment and would merely lock in the unacceptable status quo with respect to the lack of transparency. To be clear, we are not against trade. We believe that trade done right is essential to the economic wellbeing of the districts that we represent and to our nation as a whole. It is therefore critical that we ensure that the TPP is designed to achieve our trade policy and economic interests with respect to the Asia-Pacific region. Any trade authority bill must provide Congress with a robust role during the formative stages of trade negotiations, and public access to the trade pact texts, before it is too late for any necessary changes to be made. Over the past six years we and our Democratic colleagues in Congress have attempted to engage with administration officials to ensure that the specific terms of the TPP would be designed to create American jobs and raise wages here, while also ensuring that critical domestic environmental, consumer and other public interest safeguards would not be undermined by the TPP’s terms. We have sent scores of letters and held numerous meetings as we tried to partner with the Administration to create a TPP agreement and a trade authority process that we could support. After six years, the TPP text is almost complete. Along with other colleagues, we have carefully reviewed the draft text of the TPP as it has been made available to members of Congress. Unfortunately, we are prohibited from publicly discussing the many specific serious problems with the TPP’s terms because of national security classification conditions. However, despite hundreds of Members of Congress writing to Administration officials requesting that the TPP include enforceable disciplines against currency manipulation, the Administration has refused to include such terms. These are needed to ensure the pact does not increase our trade deficit, damage U.S. firms and farmers and exacerbate American job loss. Moreover, the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill would provide, for up to six years to whomever is president, a form of trade authority that Congress has only permitted for five of the last 21 years. This 1970s form of Fast Track trade authority is inappropriate for today’s expansive trade and investment agreements. Efforts by Democrats in Congress to improve trade authority and ensure proper congressional oversight and input into the trade agreement policymaking process have been repeatedly rejected. This most recently occurred when Chairman Ryan refused to even permit a vote on the substitute ‘Right Track’ trade authority proposal offered by Ranking Member Sander Levin in last week’s Ways and Means markup of the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan bill. Our opposition to fast tracking the TPP is not grounded in our concerns over the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Rather, USTR has publicly stated that the 2012 US-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) was used as the basis for the text of the TPP itself. Congressional Democrats led by Ranking Member Sander Levin forced President George W. Bush, who signed KORUS in 2007, to include enforceable labor and environmental standards in the core text of KORUS and in his pacts with Colombia, Peru, and Panama pursuant to the ‘May 2007’ agreement on trade policy. Democratic Members of Congress have been clear from day one of the TPP talks that USTR had to improve on this baseline. As December 2014 Government Accountability Office reports documented, conditions on the ground in the countries subject to these terms have not improved significantly. Given that the TPP includes notable labor and human rights violators, such as Vietnam, Malaysia, Mexico, and Brunei, continuation of the Bush-era labor framework in the TPP will result in predictable, and unacceptable, results. This conclusion is further reinforced by considering the outcomes of the 2011 U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, which not only incorporated the May 2007 standards but was supplemented with a Colombian Labor Action Plan that President Barack Obama and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos signed in recognition of the dire conditions facing Colombian workers and unionists. Sadly, since implementation of the pact and the Labor Action Plan, the organization recognized in the Plan as the official monitoring agency reports that 105 Colombian trade unionists have been assassinated and several hundred have had their lives threatened. Moreover, last year, Peru, a country subject to the same labor and environmental framework that is replicated in the TPP, enacted a package of policies that rolled back environmental and labor safeguards to attract greater foreign investment. Although the labor and environmental chapters of the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement explicitly forbid weakening environmental or labor policies to attract investment, USTR has taken no meaningful action under the agreement. Our concerns are not limited to the replication in the TPP of the Bush-era labor and environmental chapters. The TPP’s investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) terms are in need of serious reform. This March, an ISDS tribunal ruled in favor of an American corporation, Bilcon, which challenged Canada’s decision to deny it a permit to expand a rock quarry in Nova Scotia. As Congressman Levin has noted, in the case, Bilcon v. Canada, the ISDS tribunal interpreted the ‘minimum standard of treatment’ obligation in a manner that is not consistent with how the U.S. government has argued that the obligation should be interpreted. The U.S. has long argued that ISDS should not be a court of appeals for administrative or judicial decisions. However, the Bilcon ruling highlights the dangerous implications of ISDS under TPP. Over the course of TPP negotiations, U.S. negotiators have not clarified on the ‘minimum standard of treatment’ obligation. Bilcon and other recent ISDS disputes demonstrate the urgent need to do so. These disputes illustrate that the status quo on investment and ISDS is not acceptable. In addition, the TPP would threaten the security of our nation’s food supply by simultaneously limiting the food safety, inspection, and labeling policies we may apply to imported food from TPP nations. For instance, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) currently inspects less than two percent of seafood now being imported into the U.S. and has found that TPP nations such as Vietnam and Malaysia regularly ship seafood that contains banned antibiotics and various contaminants. A 2013 study found that 100 percent of Vietnamese catfish farms used numerous substances that are banned by the FDA. The TPP seeks to harmonize our food safety regulations with the eleven other participating nations, many of whom, most notably Vietnam and Malaysia, have much weaker food safety protections than the United States. In sum, the text of the TPP makes clear that the concerns congressional Democrats have raised have fallen upon deaf ears. What is most unfortunate is that we have now reached this stage of deep disagreement over the TPP text after trying to work with USTR since 2009. Yet, we are now being asked to delegate Fast Track authority to allow the President to sign and enter into this agreement with a guarantee that it will be considered by Congress within 90 days of submission and that Congress will be forbidden to make any amendments. As the elected representatives of the American people, we would like to explain to our constituents the specific ways in which the terms of the TPP fail to measure up to our expectations and how, if implemented, it would be detrimental to the public interest and pose a serious risk to the security of their jobs and wages. We join Senators Sherrod Brown and Elizabeth Warren in urging the Administration to release the draft composite TPP text. The United States is the world’s leading economy, but we cannot and will not retain that mantel if we continue to implement trade agreements that repeat a model that has not served most Americans.”
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) together led the first hearing of the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing and focused on laying the groundwork to understand current policy and challenges regarding terror funding. “The threat to freedom and democracy posed by the Islamic State and groups like it circles the globe and the United States can ill afford to combat these enemies on the battlefield alone. Any global strategy against terror groups worldwide must attack at their funding source. Organizations, no matter how ideologically fanatical, cannot effectively function without requisite resources,” said Chairman Fitzpatrick. “As legislators entrusted with protecting the American people, we cannot sit back and wait for terror to come to us. While our military engages with terrorists on the battlefield and law enforcement works to protect our homeland Congress needs to make sure that we understand the nature of the threat and how we can strike our enemy by every means.” “Detecting and disrupting the flow of funding to terrorist groups is crucial in our fight against terrorism. Without financial resources, terrorist organizations, including ISIL, Al-Qaeda, Boko Haram, and Al-Shabaab, would not be able to carry out their attacks, pay their fighters, or otherwise support their operations,” said Ranking Member Lynch. “While the United States government is highly committed in its counterterrorism efforts, we must ensure that our government is doing all it can to curb the flow of funding to terrorist groups and evolve our anti-terrorist financing and anti-money laundering capabilities as these organizations constantly shift their funding methods.” The hearing included testimony from a panel of expert witnesses focused on providing a survey of terror financing ability globally as well as the United States’ response as part of its larger anti-terror strategy. Testifying was: · Juan C. Zarate: Senior Adviser, Center for Strategic and International Studies and Senior Counselor, Foundation for Defense of Democracies · Jonathan Schanzer: Vice President, Foundation for Defense of Democracies · Seth G. Jones: Director, International Security and Defense Policy Center, RAND Corporation Over the next six months, the task force will hold further hearings with U.S. terror financing officials and global counterterrorism experts to identify weaknesses in current authority and work to ensure terror groups are unable to finance their operations, especially through the American financial system. In September, the task force will present a report of its findings as well as recommendations for additional legislation if needed.
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 1463, the SEC Revolving Door Restriction Act of 2015. The legislation requires Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) employees to wait at least one year before working for a company if they handled an enforcement action brought against that company within the previous 18 months. Congressman Lynch introduced H.R. 1463 ahead of SEC Director of Enforcement Andrew Ceresney’s testimony before the Financial Services Committee’s Capital Markets Subcommittee this morning. “As Director Ceresney highlights the enforcement office’s priorities in the coming year at today’s hearing, I want to emphasize the need to end the revolving door at the SEC, which poses increasing risks to the agency’s effectiveness and ability to keep enforcement actions fair and transparent,” said Lynch. “H.R. 1463 will reduce conflicts of interests beyond the current ethics rules by requiring employees to wait at least a year following separation from work at the SEC before working for a company whose enforcement action they handled. I believe that this added measure will improve confidence in the agency’s ability to investigate suspected wrongdoing and continue the SEC’s recent efforts to strengthen their enforcement function,” Lynch added. Specifically, H.R. 1463, the SEC Revolving Door Restriction Act of 2015, amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prevent former employees of the SEC from seeking employment with companies against which they participated in enforcement actions in the preceding 18 months. H.R. 1463 defines enforcement action as court actions, administrative proceedings, or Commission opinions. Former employees must seek an ethics opinion from the SEC if they are interested in seeking employment within a year of their termination at the SEC with a company that was subject to an SEC enforcement action in which they participated. If a former employee violates the provisions of H.R. 1463, the person would be subject to the same penalties provided in section 216 of title 18 of the U.S. Code. The SEC Revolving Door Restriction Act of 2015 is supported by the Project on Government Oversight (POGO), a nonpartisan, independent watchdog. POGO detailed the dangers of a revolving door blurring the lines between the SEC and the interests it regulates in a 2013 report, “Dangerous Liaisons: Revolving Door at SEC Creates Risk of Regulatory Capture.” The report highlights that some SEC alumni have gone on to represent companies during SEC enforcement probes and have assisted in acquiring waivers for companies charged with wrongdoing. “The revolving door has spun with alarming speed between Wall Street and the SEC's enforcement division, allowing scores of former officials to become highly-paid lawyers, lobbyists, and consultants for the very banks they used to investigate. When an enforcement attorney leaves the SEC on Friday, and shows up on Monday requesting favorable treatment for a bank charged with wrongdoing, it can greatly damage the integrity of our regulatory system. Rep. Lynch's bill would help restore the public's trust by requiring enforcement alumni to cool off for a reasonable period of time before going to work for a bank they used to oversee. These common-sense reforms deserve strong bipartisan support,” said POGO Executive Director Danielle Brian.
03.09.2015	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) is currently in Nigeria meeting with United States security and counterterrorism personnel, as well as Nigerian leaders, to review Embassy security following the recent bombings in Maiduguri, Nigeria and the pledge by Boko Haram to join forces with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Congressman Lynch is the ranking Democrat on the National Security Subcommittee and had been traveling as part of a Congressional Delegation led by Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and including Congressman Steve Russell (R-OK) to South Africa, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe. The Delegation is continuing the Committee's nearly three year investigation of Embassy and diplomatic security at high-risk overseas U.S. State Department facilities in the wake of the terrorist attacks on the U.S. Consulate and Classified Annex in Benghazi, Libya in September of 2012. Lynch was en route to Nigeria before the latest bombings occurred. Lynch’s visit to Nigeria was originally to focus on Embassy security and the plight of over 275 school girls who were kidnapped by Boko Haram almost one year ago. “This is a critical time for Nigeria and this region,” Lynch said. “Nigeria’s national elections are scheduled in just over two weeks, while Boko Haram controls an area in the north about the size of New Jersey. The bombings and other Boko Haram activities are sure to further destabilize some areas in the run up to the election. It’s a precarious situation.” The U.S. has committed $40 million over three years for equipment and training assistance to Nigeria, Chad, and other African nations in their efforts to combat Boko Haram. U.S. Special Forces are also training African counterterrorism troops. “The situation can change quickly and we have to continue to find ways to collaborate with our African partners as they battle against regional terrorist organizations,” said Lynch. Earlier, the Congressional Delegation visited Embassies and Consulate General offices in Johannesburg, South Africa, Maputo, Mozambique, and Harare, Zimbabwe in an effort to strengthen U.S. capacity to prevent and withstand potential attacks against foreign service operations. “Many of our Embassies and Consulates were established in the 1950s and 1960s, when the security profile was vastly different than it is now. Today, these facilities are targets and we need to adjust to the new reality and provide a more secure environment for our State Department employees,” added Lynch. In Nigeria, Congressman Lynch is accompanied by House staffer Bruce Fernandez and military escort, Navy Lt. Alex P. Smith, of Pleasant Valley, CT.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 1216, the Maker-Taker Conflict of Interest Reform Act of 2015. This legislation requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to carry out a pilot program to assess the impact of an alternative to the maker-taker pricing model. The maker-taker system provides rebates or payments to brokers in order to attract trades to particular stock exchanges. The maker-taker system adds unnecessary complexity to trades and creates a conflict of interest for brokers because they have an incentive to maximize rebates, rather than focus on the best interest of their clients. Due to the increased competition among exchanges, the maker-taker model has become popular in recent years as brokers, who ‘make’ the orders, are offered payments in order to draw trades to a particular venue. Firms, who ‘take’ the orders by buying shares, are charged a fee by the exchange. Overall, the exchange profits and the market is driven by fees rather than available stock. The issue of conflict of interest arises as the payment system incentivizes brokers to choose the route most cost-effective for them, instead of what is best for their clients. This has a strong impact on order routing and can benefit high frequency traders, who often have first access on the exchanges, at the expense of average investors. In addition, the maker-taker model reduces transparency by distorting prices, as rebates are not made available to all of the participants in the market. “Reforming the maker-taker system ought to be a high priority for the SEC. Under H.R. 1216, the pilot study would provide crucial insight into the adverse effect of maker-taker pricing on our market structure. I believe that the dynamics introduced by this model are inconsistent with the SEC’s goals of transparency, efficiency, liquidity, and fairness and that maker-taker creates a dangerous conflict of interest for stock brokers,” said Congressman Lynch. “There have been numerous calls from SEC officials and institutional investors to take on equity market structure reform. H.R. 1216 is an important step towards significant reform of the maker-taker pricing model, as we seek to eliminate a system based on complex order routing and unfair advantages for certain participants on our exchanges,” added Lynch. Specifically, H.R 1216, the Maker-Taker Conflict of Interest Reform Act of 2015, would require the SEC to identify a random sample of 50 of the 100 most heavily traded U.S. stocks, and for those 50 stocks, prohibit the payment of rebates for a six-month period. Additionally, it would mandate that all venues where those stocks are traded be required to implement a rebate-free pricing structure. The data from the pilot study would be a crucial tool to evaluate the pressing need for maker-taker reform. Market participants, including senior executives at the New York Stock Exchange, major institutional investors, and large broker-dealers, have indicated that the maker-taker pilot study would be feasible and a productive step towards reform. Sal Arnuk and Joe Saluzzi, co-founders of Themis Trading LLC and experts on equity trading, stated “If we could only do one thing to fix our market structure right now, it would be the elimination of the maker-taker pricing model. This model has distorted asset prices and is the primary reason why broker smart order routers are so conflicted.” H.R. 1216 is co-sponsored by Congressman Michael Capuano (MA-07), Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05), and Congressman Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15).
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) recently introduced H.R. 1173, the Ban Insider Trading Act of 2015. This legislation would establish a clear-cut insider trading statute that makes it a federal crime to purchase or sell securities based on material insider information. Currently, insider trading is not a specific crime under federal law. Rather, the federal government must routinely prosecute insider trading cases under more general anti-fraud laws and by relying on a string of federal court decisions, dating back to the 1960s, that have left insider trading law subject to vague and differing interpretations by judges. Most recently, in December of 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in U.S. v. Newman overturned the convictions of two Wall Street hedge fund portfolio managers while significantly narrowing the scope of what makes insider trading a crime. In particular, the Newman Court found that in order for insider trading to be illegal, the corporate insider must first receive some personal tangible benefit, such as money, in exchange for providing the inside information. As noted by the Department of Justice in its petition for a rehearing of the case, the Newman Court’s severely limited interpretation of what constitutes illegal insider trading will significantly obstruct federal efforts to combat and prosecute even the most common forms of insider trading. “In the wake of the ill-advised Newman decision, it is important that Congress enact a robust insider trading statute that unequivocally defines insider trading as a federal crime,” said Congressman Lynch. “Also by prohibiting the use of material inside information outright, the Ban Insider Trading Act of 2015 will better safeguard the integrity of our markets by protecting powerful information from being abused at the expense of average investors. It is obvious from the Newman case that we need clarity in this area in order to create a bright-line distinction between what is permissible and prohibited. At a time where stock trading has become increasingly defined by the use of high-volume electronic trades involving complex algorithms and computer programming which can make it easier to hide illicit trades, H.R. 1173 will provide a critical law enforcement tool to prosecute insider trading-related offenses,” added Lynch. Specifically, H.R. 1173, the Ban Insider Trading Act of 2015 would establish that it is a federal crime to purchase or sell any security based on information that the individual knows or should know is material inside information. Pursuant to H.R. 1173, the factors used to determine whether an individual should know include financial sophistication, knowledge of and experience in financial matters, position in a company, and amount of assets under management. The legislation would also hold a person liable for insider trading if they intentionally disclose material information without a legitimate business purpose. The text of the legislation is available here.
02.23.2015	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2015 Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C., for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions and all entries must be received by Thursday, April 23, 2015. Entries can be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Quincy, or Brockton District Offices and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition, for more information on the competition. “I know from past art competitions that we have some wonderfully gifted and talented artists among the high school students in our Congressional District. I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am so proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Isabelle Xu of Westwood, representing our District in Washington. The judges praised her piece for its well-done, imaginative composition and excellent draftsmanship. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Prescription drug abuse continues to be a serious issue for families and communities across our nation. As part of their efforts to fight this alarming epidemic, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) and Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today the re-launch of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The Caucus seeks to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions that incorporate treatment, prevention, education, law enforcement, and research. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, deaths from drug overdose have become the leading cause of injury death in the United States and in 2013, more than 51% of drug overdose deaths in the United States were related to pharmaceuticals. In recent years, the number of deaths and emergency department visits related to prescription drug abuse has risen significantly. The Caucus is committed to addressing the staggering impact prescription drug abuse has on local communities. “Prescription drug abuse takes an exacting toll on individuals, families and communities. Addiction does not discriminate. It affects individuals regardless of age, gender, race, and socioeconomic status,” said Lynch. “Every day in the 8th District and across our nation, we are faced with troubling stories of the debilitating effects that the vicious cycle of prescription drug abuse has on our friends, neighbors, and family members. Working alongside my friend, Congressman Rogers, I am confident that the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse can bring legislators together to address the significant challenge of prescription drug abuse.” “The epidemic of prescription drug abuse hit Appalachian communities over a decade ago, and we’ve rallied our local communities to join collectively against the devastation wrought by abuse and addiction,” stated Rogers, who co-founded the Rx Caucus in 2010. “As we have demonstrated in my region of Kentucky, the response to this unique drug challenge needs to be multi-faceted with law enforcement, treatment professionals, educational leaders and the scientific community all sitting at the same table and playing a major role. That is why I am proud to join Congressman Lynch in re-launching this important caucus: to help our colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives coordinate and collaborate on meaningful federal policies to end this scourge for good.” In the 113th Congress, nearly three dozen members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse worked on a bipartisan basis to raise awareness of the problem nationwide and to collaborate on effective policy solutions. Members worked to secure federal funding for drug courts and prevention and treatment initiatives. They also introduced legislation to stop crushable generic pain pills from flooding the streets and engaged with high-ranking officials in the Administration on the prescription drug epidemic through letters, hearings, and briefings. In April of 2014, Lynch and Rogers, co-chairs of the Caucus, participated in a bipartisan Congressional Panel at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia. The annual Summit brings together local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies, government officials, medical personnel, pharmacists, and advocates to discuss impactful solutions to address the public health crisis of prescription drug abuse. Last year, Lynch and Rogers highlighted their efforts to ban the opioid narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER until the drug was available in an abuse deterrent form.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on National Security, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s request for a new authorization for the use of military force against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL): “The President’s request for expanded authority under the War Powers Resolution asks Congress to give the President and his successor the option to reintroduce ground forces into combat situations in Iraq, as well as Syria and any other nation where ISIL may operate. With all due respect to the President, I cannot support that request. I think that what this proposes is a return to the same policy that has been thus far unsuccessful in Iraq and expands that policy to Syria. I think it’s important to remember that from 2003 to 2013, the U.S. taxpayers spent over $25 billion training and equipping Iraqi military, border patrol, and police. During that time, over 4,400 U.S. service members were killed and over 31,000 were wounded in an effort to give Iraqis the time and space to develop a competent fighting force to defend their country. In spite of that effort, a much smaller force of ISIL fighters has been able to take control of large areas of that country, as Iraqi security forces have failed or refused to fight. I cannot support an initiative that will put America’s sons and daughters in the place of Iraqi citizens who have been trained and equipped to do that job.”
02.09.2015	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a prominent Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, expressed his concern with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s decision to issue Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. a full waiver from their five year automatic disqualification. Oppenheimer’s disqualification resulted from repeated violations: including unregistered sales of billions of shares of penny stocks, violations of anti-money laundering laws, and for allowing an unregistered broker to execute trades for its clients. Lynch has been a strong critic of the dangerous precedent of waiving bad actor provisions for firms who have knowingly and repeatedly engaged in violations. “Accountability and transparency are vital to safeguarding the general public from the danger of criminal behavior from our financial institutions. Bad actor disqualification provisions are an important means to detract firms from engaging in unlawful conduct. By reflexively granting a full waiver of sanctions, we are not holding firms accountable for flagrant violations of critical financial regulations and anti-money laundering laws,” said Congressman Lynch. “I thank Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar and Commissioner Kara M. Stein for their powerful dissent and concur that the Commission must take more care to ensure that firms meet the waiver criteria prior to issuing waivers.” Commissioners Aguilar and Stein issued a dissenting statement last week over the majority of the Commission’s decision to grant a full waiver. The full text of the dissenting statement can be found online here.
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, introduced the bill on January 13, 2015. This bipartisan legislation would provide federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. “I am very pleased that H.R. 313 was passed out of committee on a bipartisan basis and I look forward to swift passage of this legislation on the House floor,” said Congressman Lynch. “I thank Chairman Chaffetz, Ranking Member Cummings, and Congressman Farenthold for recognizing the value of this legislation and including it in the first markup of the new Congress for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. It is an important demonstration of meaningful bipartisanship and emphasizes the Committee’s commitment to the dedicated wounded warriors serving in our federal workforce.” Newly hired federal employees begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. Many veterans are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with PTSD and other health issues. Congressman Lynch introduced H.R. 313 to address the concerns raised by many veterans regarding the substantial burden placed on Wounded Warriors in the federal workforce who have to skip appointments, rather than miss work. “Our disabled veterans are faced with a significant burden as they enter the federal workforce. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 provides vital federal leave for our heroic and devoted wounded warriors so that they are able to take the time they need to address their disabilities, while continuing their much appreciated service to our country,” added Congressman Lynch. H.R. 313 has received endorsements from a number of federal employee and veterans’ organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, the Federal Managers Association (FMA), the American Federation of Government Employees, the Disabled American Veterans, the American Legion, and the National Treasury Employees Union. It is also strongly supported by the Federal-Postal Coalition, an organization representing nearly 5 million federal and postal workers and annuitants. H.R. 313 is cosponsored by Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC). Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) and Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced S. 242, the Senate companion bill, on January 22, 2015. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress and it was reported favorably to the House by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on September 17, 2014.
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) was named Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security for the 114th Congress. The announcement was made by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07). As Ranking Member, Congressman Lynch will serve as the leading Democrat and have a pivotal role on matters affecting the oversight of national security. The Subcommittee is part of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the main investigative committee of the United States House of Representatives. “It is an honor to serve as the senior Democrat on the Subcommittee on National Security and I look forward to working with Mr. Cummings, Chairman Chaffetz and Mr. DeSantis in defending against threats to America. This is an area of significant and active challenges for our nation and for democracy right now. I am following my friend and former colleague John Tierney in this position and he leaves big shoes to fill. Hopefully my earlier work in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan and Yemen will help me to transition into this role. Providing oversight on the Defense and State Department and our intelligence operations is meaningful work and I am thankful to the people of my District for giving me the opportunity to be in the middle of this effort,” said Ranking Member Lynch. Congressman Lynch has been a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee since he was elected to Congress in 2001. In addition to serving as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on National Security, Congressman Lynch also serves on the Subcommittee on Government Operations. Congressman Lynch will retain his membership on the Committee on Financial Services, where he serves on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises and the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit.
01.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 312, the Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act. This legislation is named after Glen Doherty, the former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. security contractor, who was killed during the September 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate and classified annex in Benghazi, Libya. The Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act would remove a significant penalty in federal law that currently prohibits the families of overseas contractors who are killed in the line of duty from receiving full death benefits if the deceased employee is unmarried with no children or other dependents. The families of overseas federal contractors, including the family of Mr. Doherty, have faced significant difficulty in receiving death benefits under federally-required insurance policies when their loved one is killed on the job, but is single with no dependents. The bill is cosponsored by Congressman Gerry Connolly (VA-11). “It is unacceptable that the Defense Base Act requires federal workers to take out an insurance policy before they are deployed overseas and accepts the payment of insurance premiums from those workers, but fails to provide death benefits to their families or estate solely based on marital and child status,” said Congressman Lynch. “The Glen Anthony Doherty Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act seeks to right the injustice faced by the family of Glen Doherty and families in similar situations. The legislation would ensure that courageous Americans, like Mr. Doherty, are allowed to provide the protections and benefits that they intended their loved ones to receive in the event of their death in the line of duty and in the service of our country,” added Lynch. Glen Doherty was killed in September of 2012 while defending the classified annex near the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi against a terrorist attack that also resulted in the deaths of U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. contractor Tyrone Woods, and U.S. State Department officer Sean Smith. While Mr. Doherty was unmarried with no children or other dependents, he activated his mandatory Defense Base Act insurance policy before deploying for a scheduled 54-day mission to Libya beginning on September 7, 2012 with the reasonable belief that his policy would pay benefits to his estate or next of kin in the event of his death. Barbara Doherty, the mother of Glen Doherty, made the following remarks, “Our family is grateful to Congressman Lynch for continuing to fight for this change. To lose Glen the way that we did, and then be told we are not entitled to any kind of death benefit when he had a policy, is just not right. We support a change in this law so that no other American family has to suffer the way that we did. The stories of other contractors killed may never be known publicly due to the classified nature of this work, but our country owes them a debt. We thank Congressman Lynch for working to right this wrong.” “The families of Americans who are tragically killed in the line of duty while serving overseas deserve access to full death benefits, regardless of the deceased’s marital status,” said Congressman Connolly. “I am proud to cosponsor Mr. Lynch’s urgently needed legislation to ensure that Defense Base Act insurance policies treat all workers equitably. No family should have to experience the hardships that the Doherty family faced when their son was killed in the September 2012 Benghazi terrorist attack while heroically defending his compatriots. Yet due to a quirk in the law, his loved ones had difficulty accessing the full death benefit policy Mr. Doherty had purposely activated for them, solely because he was unmarried with no children.” The Defense Base Act of 1941 requires that overseas federal contractors obtain so-called Defense Base Act insurance in order to make certain that injured workers are entitled to workers’ compensation for employment-related injuries and their survivors are entitled to death benefits in the event of a job-related tragedy. Regrettably, current law does not extend death benefits, aside from $3,000 in funeral expenses, to the family or designated beneficiary of a federal contractor who is killed in the line of duty overseas but is unmarried with no dependents. H.R. 312 would therefore amend the Defense Base Act to ensure that full death benefits are extended to the families or designated beneficiaries of these federal contractors who have died in service to our country as a result of a war-risk hazard or an act of terrorism. H.R. 312 would also provide retroactive death benefits to the designated beneficiaries or families of such federal contractors who have been killed in the line of duty since September 11, 2001, including Defense Base Act cases resulting from Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and the terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya.
01.22.2015	On Friday, January 23rd, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will visit the Brockton VA Campus to meet with Vincent Ng, Director of the Boston VA Healthcare System, to review the handling of the recently reported case of Legionnaire’s disease. Congressman Lynch is investigating the process used to respond to a recent Legionnaire’s bacteria contamination in a facility at the Brockton Campus of the VA Boston Healthcare System. Congressman Lynch released the following statement on the upcoming visit: “I look forward to meeting with Director Ng, as well as state and local elected officials and veterans stakeholders, to discuss the procedures in place at the Brockton VA Campus and steps we can take moving forward to better protect the health of our veterans. Our veterans, by their service, have earned high quality and reliable health care. We must make every effort to ensure proper procedures are in place at our veterans’ health care facilities to protect veterans, their families, medical staff, and caregivers.” Due to privacy concerns, the meeting will be closed press, but Congressman Lynch will be available after the visit for comment. WHAT: Visit to Brockton VA Campus WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch Vincent Ng, Director, Boston VA Healthcare System WHEN: Friday, January 23, 10:30 a.m. (closed press meeting) Media availability at 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Community Living Center Brockton VA Campus, Building 4 940 Belmont Street Brockton, MA, 02301
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch introduced comprehensive legislation to reform the security clearance process by which the federal government determines whether an individual is eligible to access classified national security information. H.R. 490 the Security Clearance Reform Act of 2015 will better ensure that the security clearance process is defined by a high quality and efficient background check system, continuous federal oversight of issued security clearances, and maximum information-sharing between federal agencies and state and local law enforcement. H.R. 490 is cosponsored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight Committee, and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. The tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard in September of 2013 and other recent events involving government security clearances have repeatedly highlighted the need to implement comprehensive security clearance reform. As reported by the Washington Post, Navy Yard shooter Aaron Alexis applied for a security clearance in 2007 after enlisting as a full-time reservist in the U.S. Navy but without disclosing a 2004 arrest in Seattle, Washington, on a firearms-related offense. While USIS, the federal contractor responsible for performing Alexis’s background check, discovered this prior charge, Navy officials have stated that the precise nature of the Seattle arrest was not included in Alexis’s investigative file. Importantly, the background investigator was unable to obtain a copy of the police report from the Seattle Police Department and information available on the courts database did not include details of the arrest. As a result, Alexis was granted a security clearance in 2008. Despite additional arrests in Georgia and Texas in 2010, Alexis retained his security clearance following his discharge from the Navy in 2011 and worked as a defense contractor at military installations, including the Washington Navy Yard. “The federal government’s current background investigation process fails to pick up events that arise in the interim period between a cleared individual’s initial investigation and periodic reinvestigation, which in Alexis’s case would not have occurred until 2017,” said Congressman Lynch, a member of the subcommittee on the Federal Workforce. “A review of the Aaron Alexis case reveals glaring lapses in our security clearance process, including a deficiency in the ability to get criminal history information from state and local jurisdictions and a lack of continuous evaluation of security clearances that have already been issued,” Lynch added. “H.R. 490 would implement a monitoring system and continuous evaluation across the federal government so that we can immediately identify and address significant red flags that arise in a security clearance holder’s background.” “This important legislation would address the gaps in the federal background investigations process brought to light by the Washington Navy Yard shooting and the Department of Justice’s $1 billion lawsuit against USIS for contract fraud,” said Ranking Member Cummings. “One of the key reforms in this bill would prevent conflicts of interest like those in the USIS fraud scheme where a secondary federal contract concealed fraudulent activity and undermined federal oversight.” In January of 2014, the Department of Justice filed a breach of contract and false claims complaint against USIS, which handles almost 50% of background check investigations that the Office of Personnel Management assigns to contractors. According to the complaint, “beginning in at least March 2008 and continuing through at least September 2012, USIS management devised and executed a scheme to deliberately circumvent contractually required quality reviews of completed background investigations in order to increase the company’s revenues and profits.” In particular, the Department of Justice alleges that then-USIS senior management directed and engaged in the practice of “dumping” or “flushing” of cases which were released to the Office of Personnel Management without the quality review required by its federal government contract. While falsely representing that the company had performed these reviews, USIS allegedly “dumped” or “flushed” at least 665,000 background investigations which constituted 40% of the total number of investigations conducted by the company during this 4-1/2 year period. Importantly, OPM terminated its contract with USIS in September of 2014. “In light of these allegations regarding extended waste, fraud, and abuse in security clearance contracting, it is imperative that we bring key background investigative work back into the federal government,” said Congressman Lynch. “My legislation will ensure that federal employees, rather than outside contractors, perform critical investigative functions, including Top Secret Clearance level investigations.” In particular, the Security Clearance Reform Act of 2015 would require the President, within 6 months of enactment, to submit a strategic plan to Congress to improve security clearance and background investigation activities conducted by the federal government. Specifically, the plan must include the development of a continuous evaluation and monitoring system through which government agencies may access and receive real-time updates of critical information, including arrest records, currency transactions, and terrorist and criminal watch list reports, relevant to security clearance background investigations. In addition, the plan must contain guidance on improving information-sharing by state and local agencies with the federal government as well as proposed methods for streamlining and eliminating outdated manual investigative processes in favor of electronic and accessible investigative databases. Moreover, the plan must require the in-sourcing of key background investigative functions in order to ensure that only federal employees, rather than outside contractors, are conducting quality reviews of Top Secret-level investigations and subject interviews. H.R. 490 would require implementation of this strategic plan within 1 year of its submission to Congress.
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), joined by Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), introduced H.R. 313, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation would provide federal employees, who are also veterans with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or greater, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. Congressman Lynch first introduced the legislation in the 113th Congress and it was reported favorably to the House by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on September 17, 2014. “It is unacceptable that our Wounded Warrior federal employees who are just starting out in the federal workforce are often faced with the difficult choice of having to take unpaid leave to attend their VA appointments or miss their medical visits. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 provides vital federal leave for our heroic and dedicated wounded warriors so that they are able to take the time they need to address their disabilities, while continuing their much appreciated service to our country,” said Congressman Lynch. Newly hired federal employees begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. Many veterans are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with PTSD and other health issues. Congressman Lynch introduced H.R. 313 to address the concerns raised by many veterans regarding the substantial burden placed on Wounded Warriors in the federal workforce who have to skip appointments, rather than miss work. In order for eligible federal employees to make use of such leave, the bill would simply require employees to submit certification to their agency as prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management or in the case of postal employees, the Postmaster General. Given that these dedicated federal workers will have accumulated up to 104 hours of traditional federal sick leave by the beginning of their second year on the job, this legislation would also provide that any unused “Wounded Warrior leave” would not be carried over to the following year. “I am pleased to reintroduce this legislation with bipartisan support and look forward to swift passage of this important effort to reduce the burden placed on our Wounded Warriors who choose to continue their much appreciated service by entering the federal workforce,” Lynch added. “I am proud to be a co-author of this legislation that will provide disabled veterans that enter the federal workforce the opportunity to seek medical treatment for their service-related disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave. We must support our veterans, especially those who suffered a disability protecting our freedom,” said Congressman Farenthold. “This bipartisan legislation would ease the transition of our wounded warriors from military to federal service by providing them with 104 hours of paid leave to use during their first year of federal employment to obtain the medical care that they need and deserve. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 honors the commitment of these brave men and women to public service,” said Ranking Member Cummings. “I’m pleased to again cosponsor this bill that will help the many disabled veterans in North Carolina and throughout the nation,” said Congressman Butterfield. “This is common-sense legislation. I urge my colleagues to pass the Wounded Warrior Federal Leave Act and allow disabled veterans to access the care they need without sacrificing their livelihoods.” “Once again, I am proud to cosponsor the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act,” said Congressman Jones. “These men and women have made incredible sacrifices to defend our freedom and have been wounded as a result. They deserve an adequate amount of time to tend to their wounds while beginning a new chapter in their careers after they leave the military. That is why I am cosponsoring the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act and will continue to do everything I can to help our veterans.” “The least we can do to thank our veterans who have been wounded while fighting for our freedom is to give them peace of mind while they attend to their medical needs,” said Congresswoman Norton. “Our Nation is deeply indebted to the brave men and women that serve in uniform with honor and distinction, particularly those disabled veterans who have made significant sacrifices on behalf of our country, and continue to bear the costs of war over a lifetime,” said Congressman Connolly. “We are just as fortunate when these patriotic Americans return home and decide to continue serving the public, even though in the first year of transitioning to the civilian workforce these veterans lack the necessary sick leave to cover medical treatments for service-related disabilities. No disabled veteran should be forced to use leave without pay as a cost of joining the federal workforce, and that is why I am proud to cosponsor Mr. Lynch’s bipartisan legislation that will ensure service-disabled veterans can enter the federal workforce with sufficient sick leave to cover treatments for disabilities that result from military service.” H.R. 313 has received endorsements from a number of federal employee and veterans’ organizations, including the Federal Managers Association (FMA), the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Treasury Employees Union, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, and the Disabled American Veterans. It is also strongly supported by the Federal-Postal Coalition, an organization representing nearly 5 million federal and postal workers and annuitants. “As the federal government continues to strive to be a model employer, FMA is grateful for the work of Representative Lynch and his legislation, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act. This would provide federal employees who qualify as 30 percent disabled by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and are within their first year of federal employment, with 104 hours of sick leave in order to attend medically necessary appointments for their service-related disability,” said Federal Managers Association National President Patricia Niehaus. “FMA members have seen first-hand the stress these new employees face as they struggle with their disability on top of the demands of their jobs. As these veterans served their country on and off the battlefield, it is only right that the federal government provides this much needed leave.” Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) and Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced a Senate companion bill in the 113th Congress and they plan to reintroduce the bill in this new Congress.
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), two prominent members of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement regarding the announcement that Direct Edge will pay a $14 million fine to settle charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission that they failed to disclose how some order types, created at the behest of high frequency trading firms, were being employed on their exchanges. Lynch and Waters applauded the SEC for taking action against the exchange for this fraudulent behavior, which catered to high-frequency trading firms to the detriment of average investors. The SEC investigation found that the two exchanges offered three variations of “price sliding” order types, rather than the single “price sliding” order type listed within the exchanges’ rules. Certain members of the exchange, including some high-frequency trading firms, were privy to information on how the three variations of order types operated, while retail and institutional investors were not. Lynch and Waters believe it is crucial that all investors have equal access to the rules governing trading on the exchange. “It is unacceptable to have high frequency trading firms wielding undue influence over exchanges. I am pleased that the Securities and Exchange Commission is finally acknowledging the abusive practice of complex special order types that cater to high frequency trading firms to the detriment of everyday investors. While the fine is an important first step in ensuring fair trading on our public exchanges, we must continue to hold exchanges accountable,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “More than three years after being alerted by a whistleblower, the SEC has finally taken action against potentially abusive and manipulative order types that favor high-frequency traders over ordinary investors at our nation’s exchanges. Our capital markets are built on the premise that they are fair and transparent for all investors. As this case illustrates, providing certain customers with an inside track on how trades can be best executed destroys that premise. I hope the SEC continues to examine the use of order types at exchanges and prohibits those that are not in the public interest,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee.
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, January 7th, Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3), Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), and Senator Bob Graham (FL) hosted a press conference to highlight H. Res. 14, a resolution Congressmen Jones and Lynch have introduced to call on President Barack Obama to declassify 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001. The pages were initially classified by President George W. Bush and have remained classified under President Barack Obama. The resolution states that declassification of the pages is necessary to provide the American public with the full truth surrounding the tragic events of September 11, 2001, particularly relating to the involvement of foreign governments. “In December of 2002 the Joint Inquiry report into 9/11 was released by a bicameral process,” said Congressman Jones. “The Bush administration classified 28 pages of that Inquiry and they remain classified despite repeated pleas to President Obama by me, other members of Congress, chairmen of the Joint Inquiry, and the families of 9/11 victims. I introduced H. Res. 14 to urge President Obama to declassify the 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry because the families deserve peace, the American people deserve the truth, and the release of these pages will not harm our national security; rather, the declassification of these pages will enhance our national security because the public will be better informed. I strongly encourage the Senate to bring forward a companion resolution so Congress can urge President Obama to release the 28 pages. The American people deserve to know what led to the tragic attacks on September 11, 2001.” “After careful review of the 28 pages, I believe that we must shine a greater light on the facts surrounding the September 11th terrorist attacks. We owe it to the families of the innocent victims of September 11th and to the American public to provide a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding the terrorist attacks. The declassification of the 28 pages of the 9/11 Joint Congressional Inquiry, a bipartisan, bicameral congressional inquiry, is an important step towards answering the many questions that remain for the families of the victims and our nation as a whole,” said Congressman Lynch. “I believe enough time has passed that we can digest the information they contain without worrying about the visceral passions and security implications that existed in the days immediately following September 11th, 2001. The facts contained in the 28 pages can serve an important role in framing our country’s anti-terrorism policy moving forward.” Also speaking at the press conference were family members of 9/11 victims, including Terry Strada, co-chair of 9/11 Families United for Justice Against Terrorism and widow of Tom Strada (1 WTC victim); Sylvia Carver, sister of Sharon Ann Carver (Pentagon victim); and Abraham Scott, widower of Janice Scott (Pentagon victim). For video of the press conference, click here.
01.04.2015	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Senator Edward W. Brooke: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of U.S. Senator Edward Brooke. Senator Brooke had a truly remarkable life story. He was a decorated veteran and an accomplished public servant who leaves behind a historic legislative record working to improve the lives of the people of Massachusetts and across the nation. His advocacy for affordable housing serves as a reminder of important work that remains undone. I admire and appreciate Senator Brooke's keen ability to bridge party lines in Washington during difficult times, a talent that is sorely missed today. Margaret and I send our prayers and condolences to the Brooke family.”
12.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, the Office of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) hosted a briefing with Haim Bodek to examine the issue of high-frequency trading and specifically, whether the stock-market is “rigged” in favor of high-frequency trading firms over the average investor. Mr. Bodek is the author of The Problem of HFT - Collected Writings on High Frequency Trading & Stock Market Structure Reform. His career, experiences, and advocacy for U.S. stock market regulatory reform are described extensively in Dark Pools by Scott Patterson, freelance writer and staff reporter for The Wall Street Journal. As a member of Congress, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has been a leader in the effort to ensure that equity markets operate fairly and efficiently for the average investor. “The U.S. capital markets are the envy of the world not just because they are extremely deep, but also because they are transparent. Transparency instills trust in the markets, which in turn encourages participation in our capital markets by both large institutional investors and smaller retail investors, who might be investing their savings for their children’s education or for retirement. If our equity markets are “rigged” in favor of high-frequency trading firms, it has the potential to undermine that trust," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch recognizes that there is a need to understand more about high-frequency trading to evaluate if these allegations, and therefore the threat to our markets, are credible.
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) released the following statement regarding the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Study of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Detention and Interrogation Program: “While I understand the pressure on the CIA to anticipate and prevent terrorist attacks, the Senate executive summary raises very serious issues regarding the protocols adopted for extracting intelligence from suspected terrorists. As a nation we have to maintain a balance that respects and protects basic human rights, while assuring that our interrogation measures obtain reliable information to actually enhance our security. The report summary certainly projects some doubts about whether we are doing that. I will need to read the classified version of this report before I can comment further.”
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the reauthorization of the Adams Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work in honor of former President John Adams and his legacy. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 3802, which extends the authorization of the Adams Memorial Foundation for seven years through December 2, 2020. Lynch’s bill language was included in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3979 the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is expected to be considered by the United States Senate next week and sent to the President. The reauthorization allows the Adams Memorial Foundation, the National Park Service, the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission and all stakeholders to continue working toward the goal of siting and building a commemorative memorial honoring John Adams and his family and their role in shaping the nation. Congressman Lynch stated, “John Adams has a lasting legacy as a dedicated public servant. He was one of our most influential founding fathers, a defender of due process, an experienced diplomat, Vice President, and President of the United States. John Adams and five generations of the Adams family called the City of Quincy home until 1927. I am proud to represent Quincy, nicknamed the “City of Presidents,” in the House of Representatives. While the City of Quincy has honored the Adams family with one of our country’s most significant national parks, the Adams National Historic Park, our nation’s capital lacks a memorial honoring this remarkable leader. The passage of this legislation allows the foundation the time necessary to find a fitting location in Washington, D.C. to honor this admirable man.” “I am pleased that the House and Senate included the reauthorization of the Adams Memorial Foundation in the National Defense Authorization Act. I thank my colleagues in the Massachusetts delegation for their support of this important legislation, particularly Senator Ed Markey for introducing the companion bill in the Senate,” Lynch added. The bill was originally introduced in the House of Representatives by former Congressman William Delahunt. The last authorization extension expired on December 2, 2013. The Adams Memorial Foundation includes members of the Adams family and respected historians in its leadership.
11.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Anti-Terrorism and Proliferation Financing Task Force that Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) co-chairs with Congressman Pete King (R-NY) hosted a briefing for congressional staff to learn how the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) is using the looting and illicit trade in antiquities to help finance its terrorist operations. Professor Amr Al Azm of Shawnee State University and Professor Mark V. Vlasic of Georgetown University discussed how ISIS is profiting from its plunder of antiquities. According to Professor Amr Al Azm, ISIS is not only looting these antiquities itself, but also has essentially licensed the plunder of others by providing permission to locals to loot artifacts, so long as ISIS receives 20 percent of proceeds. This has transformed what may have started as a localized effort into an international business. "I helped establish the bipartisan Task Force on Anti-Terrorism & Proliferation Financing in 2005 to educate members and staff on the status of national and international efforts to track and stop the flow of funds to terrorist groups. The rise of ISIS, and the organization’s proven ability to move money through innovative means, necessitates continued progress in this critical counterterrorism area. I intend to work with my colleagues to ensure that Congress is doing everything in its power to address the ISIS threat," said Congressman Lynch.
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) issued the following statement on the attack in the West Jerusalem synagogue that killed four people: “We are painfully saddened at the loss of Rabbi Mosheh Twersky, Rabbi Aryeh Kopinsky, Rabbi Calman Levine, and Rabbi Avraham Goldberg who were brutally murdered during morning prayers today at Kehilat Bnei Torah in West Jerusalem. These young Rabbis were men of peace who dedicated their lives to the service of others and the dignity of life itself. Our prayers also go out to the members of the Jewish community in Greater Boston who share a special connection with the Twersky family. Their loss affects us all.”
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) introduced H.R. 5721, the Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act. This legislation would remove a significant penalty in federal law that currently prohibits the families of overseas federal contractors who are killed in the line of duty from receiving full death benefits if the deceased employee is unmarried with no children or other dependents. The families of overseas federal contractors, including the family of former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. security contractor Glen Doherty, have faced significant difficulty in receiving death benefits under federally-required insurance policies when their loved one is killed on the job but is single with no dependents. Mr. Doherty was killed during the September 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate and classified Annex in Benghazi, Libya. The Defense Base Act of 1941 requires that overseas federal contractors obtain so-called Defense Base Act insurance in order to make certain that injured workers are entitled to workers’ compensation for employment-related injuries and their survivors are entitled to death benefits in the event of a job-related tragedy. Regrettably, current law does not extend death benefits, aside from $3,000 in funeral expenses, to the family or designated beneficiary of a federal contractor who is killed in the line of duty overseas but is unmarried with no dependents. H.R. 5721 would therefore amend the Defense Base Act to ensure that full death benefits are extended to the families or designated beneficiaries of these federal contractors who have died in service to our country as a result of a war-risk hazard or an act of terrorism. H.R. 5721 would also provide retroactive death benefits to the designated beneficiaries or families of such federal contractors who have been killed in the line of duty since September 11, 2001, including Defense Base Act cases resulting from Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and the terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. "It is flatly wrong that the Defense Base Act requires federal workers to take out an insurance policy before they are deployed overseas and accepts the payment of insurance premiums from those workers, but does not provide death benefits to their families or estate solely based on marital and child status,” said Congressman Lynch. “The Overseas Security Personnel Fairness Act would ensure that courageous Americans, like Glen Doherty, are allowed to provide the protections and benefits that they intended their loved ones to receive in the event of their death in the line of duty and in the service of their country,” added Lynch. Glen Doherty was killed in September of 2012 while defending the classified Annex near the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi against a terrorist attack that also resulted in the deaths of U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, former Navy SEAL and C.I.A. contractor Tyrone Woods, and U.S. State Department officer Sean Smith. While Mr. Doherty was unmarried with no children or other dependents, he activated his mandatory Defense Base Act insurance policy before deploying for a scheduled 54-day mission to Libya beginning on September 7, 2012 with the reasonable belief that his policy would pay benefits to his estate or next of kin in the event of his death.
10.30.2014	BOSTON, MA – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today released the following statement on the passing of Mayor Thomas M. Menino: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Mayor Tom Menino. Margaret and I send our prayers and heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Angela, his children, and grandchildren. Tom Menino dedicated his life to transforming our city and the City of Boston flourished under his stewardship. Tom Menino worked tirelessly for the families of Boston, crisscrossing the city day and night to tend to the needs of our neighborhoods. He was a true leader and set the bar high for elected officials. I will always treasure his vision, leadership, and love for Boston. Tom Menino will be sorely missed.”
10.25.2014	Joseph Saluzzi briefs congressional staff on equity market structure. WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday, October 23rd, the Office of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch hosted a briefing on equity market structure with Joseph Saluzzi. Joseph Saluzzi is partner, co-founder and co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading LLC, a leading independent agency brokerage firm that trades equities for institutional money managers and hedge funds. He is also a member of the CFTC Technology Advisory Committee’s Subcommittee on Automated and High Frequency Trading and the co-author of Broken Markets -- How High Frequency Trading and Predatory Practices on Wall Street are Destroying Investor Confidence. A long-serving member of the Financial Services Committee and Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee, Congressman Lynch works hard to ensure that our capital markets are open and transparent and operate effectively for average investors.
10.23.2014	BOSTON, MA - Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch sent a letter to Cheryl A. LaFleur, Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, regarding the proposed Algonquin Incremental Market Project. Congressman Lynch expressed concerns regarding the impact on the neighborhood of West Roxbury and towns of Dedham and Westwood. The text of the letter is below: October 23, 2014 Ms. Cheryl A. LaFleur, Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, NE Washington, DC 20426 Dear Commissioner LaFleur: I am writing with regard to the Algonquin Incremental Market Project proposed by Algonquin Transmission, LLC (Algonquin). As United States Representative for the Massachusetts Eighth District, I represent Boston’s West Roxbury neighborhood and a number of impacted towns including Dedham and Westwood. At a recent community meeting in West Roxbury sponsored by local representatives and attended by Mayor Martin J. Walsh and me, many issues were brought to our attention that warrant consideration as the process moves forward. Of particular concern is the danger that the proposed route of the high pressure gas pipeline presents to the densely settled residential homes in the area. Of further concern is the decision to locate the Metering and Regulating station in an area of residential homes and adjacent to an active stone quarry that engages in significant ongoing blasting activity. As proposed, the current route which runs along Grove Street to the M&R Station at Grove and Centre Streets across from the quarry is troubling. According to many of the longtime residents of the homes in the area, they regularly experience shaking and rattling with each blast from the quarry, raising legitimate worry that this is not an optimal or safe location for a high pressure gas line. While I understand the need to supply natural gas to this area, I agree with my neighbors and must oppose the current configuration based on the quality of life and public safety concerns generated by the current iteration of this project. My office has continued to receive inquiries and hear concerns from the affected communities, especially the West Roxbury area surrounding the quarry. Those calls and concerns also include thoughtful alternatives that would allow the project to proceed under a different route and configuration. I recognize that Spectra has submitted an engineering study done by GZA. However, I respectfully request that this study be reevaluated and more thoroughly examined. In the final analysis, the route must be altered to ensure the reasonable protections sought by the residents of West Roxbury and adjacent towns. Reducing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and meeting the energy needs of Massachusetts and the New England region are critical and shared concerns. As we strive to achieve energy independence and energy security, we must be cautious and deliberative in our approach to locating the necessary infrastructure. It is my hope that as you review information relative to the Algonquin Incremental Market project, you will carefully consider the concerns raised by residents and local officials of the impacted communities. Thank you for your consideration on this important and time sensitive matter. If I may be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me, I will make myself available. Sincerely, STEPHEN F. LYNCH Congressman 8th District Massachusetts Downloads » Lynch Letter to FERC 10-23-14
10.10.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch meets with Prime Minister Barzani in Erbil on October 8th WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a senior member of the House National Security Subcommittee, led an oversight delegation to Iraq and Turkey. In the wake of continued advances by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and the brutal ISIS attack on the Syrian border town of Kobani, Lynch met with Kurdish Peshmerga and Syrian opposition leaders to assess the progress of regional and international security efforts to combat the global ISIS threat. Lynch traveled to Erbil, Iraq to examine the readiness of the Kurdish Regional Government and its Peshmerga military forces to continue fighting against ISIS following the commencement of U.S. airstrikes against ISIS positions on August 7th. In particular, Lynch conducted a site visit to the recently-established Combined Joint Operations Center in Salah ad-Din, Iraq where Kurdish, British and U.S. military officials are working together to develop Kurdish counterterrorism operations against ISIS. Lynch also met with Kurdish Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani and Minister of Peshmerga Affairs Mustafa Qadir to discuss what additional equipment and assistance the Peshmerga forces will require to enhance their capacity to fight ISIS. Lynch was an early congressional supporter of the Kurdish Regional Government's request for U.S. military equipment and intelligence assistance in its efforts against ISIS and his corresponding letter to President Obama can be viewed HERE. Next, Lynch conducted coordinated meetings in Ankara and Istanbul, Turkey - the site of Syrian Opposition Coalition headquarters - to examine the composition and readiness of the various Syrian opposition groups that could potentially receive U.S. training, equipment, and supplies to combat ISIS as well as the Assad regime. In particular, Lynch met with Syrian Opposition Coalition Political Committee Members Alia Mansour, Badr Jamous, Khaled Khoja, and Wasel Chamali and underscored that the Coalition must be fully transparent and accountable regarding the makeup and purpose of the opposition groups under its umbrella. Lynch also met with Gen. John Allen, Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition to Counter ISIS, to further discuss the vetting process for Syrian opposition groups. In Turkey, Lynch also conducted a site visit to the Syriac Refugee Center in Samatya, Istanbul to meet with Syrian Christian refugees, including some families who have lived at the center for over three years after fleeing the conflict in Syria.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed H. R. 5229, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, introduced the bill on July 29, 2014. This bipartisan legislation would provide federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. “I am very pleased that H.R. 5229 was passed out of committee on a bipartisan basis and I look forward to swift passage of this legislation on the House floor,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Our disabled veterans are faced with a significant burden as they enter the federal workforce. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2014 provides our dedicated Wounded Warriors with the flexibility and opportunity to continue their medical treatment, as they transition to careers in the federal workforce and continue their much appreciated service to our country,” added Lynch. Newly hired federal employees begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. Many veterans are returning from multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan with PTSD and other health issues. Congressman Lynch introduced this legislation to address the concerns raised by many veterans regarding the substantial burden placed on Wounded Warriors in the federal workforce who have to skip appointments, rather than miss work. The Wounded Warriors Leave Act of 2014 would provide first-year federal employees with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or greater with 104 hours of “Wounded Warriors leave” for the purposes of undergoing medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities. H.R. 5229 was recently endorsed by the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, and the Disabled American Veterans. It is also strongly supported by the Federal-Postal Coalition, an organization representing nearly 5 million federal and postal workers and annuitants. The Wounded Warriors Leave Act of 2014 was approved and reported favorably to the House by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. H.R. 5229 was introduced by Congressman Lynch, alongside Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC). The bill will head to the House floor for further consideration.
09.10.2014	BOSTON, MA - On Sunday, October 5, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) will host an information session for all high school students interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions: · United States Military Academy at West Point, NY · United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD · United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO · United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY · United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT All students and their families from the Eighth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 5, 2014 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree 02184 CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000
08.29.2014	BOSTON, MA – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) led a letter signed by the Massachusetts Delegation that expresses concern regarding the post-merger status of United Airlines employees at Boston Logan International Airport. The letter to Jeffrey Smisek, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of United Continental Holdings, Inc., highlighted that there have been staff reductions and employees downgraded from full to part-time status since the 2010 merger. Chairman Smisek stated before Congress in 2010 that the United Airlines merger with Continental Airlines would have no significant effect on the jobs or wages of the new entity’s front-line employees. “The workforce at Logan Airport deserves job security and a fair wage. I am troubled by the recent staffing reductions for front-line employees of United Airlines at Logan as this very concern was raised in 2010 prior to the merger and we were reassured that front-line employees would be protected from any cuts. My colleagues and I plan to monitor this situation and I am hopeful that United Airlines can find a way to balance the well-being of their employees with their bottom line,” Congressman Lynch said. Co-signers of the letter: Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey. Representatives Michael E. Capuano, Richard E. Neal, James P. McGovern, John F. Tierney, Niki Tsongas, William R. Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, and Katherine M. Clark. Downloads » Lynch Letter to United CEO
08.20.2014	U.S. Rep. Stephen Lynch visited the Adana refugee camp near the Syrian/Turkish border. More than half of the 12,000 Syrian refugees are children. On Tuesday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) visited a Syrian refugee camp near the Turkish/Syrian border. Congressman Lynch was joined by Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN). They reviewed conditions at the Adana refugee camp which is operated by the Turkish government with the assistance of the Red Crescent. The Adana camp is a tent-city which houses 12,000 refugees, mostly children, and receives 60% of its food assistance from the United States. The visit was prompted by the urgent crisis of dealing with the flood of civilians fleeing the civil war raging in Syria. The ongoing conflict in Syria has now displaced almost 3 million Syrians. The vast majority of refugees have fled to neighboring countries, including Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan. The threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has also created a humanitarian crisis in the area with Iraqis and Syrians fleeing to Turkey. Turkey has kept its borders open for those escaping these conflicts. The number of refugees in Turkey is increasing daily and placing a strain on the country’s resources, as well as its security and political environment. Roughly 20% of the refugees in Turkey are housed in camps, while the remainder are scattered in cities and towns throughout the country. The international community, including the United States, is providing humanitarian assistance to support the efforts of Turkey and other countries who are hosting Syrian refugees. Turkey, Jordan and other host countries face the dilemma of determining a long term plan for the refugees. "The crisis in Syria and northern Iraq present long-term challenges for the international community. We must encourage all our international neighbors to do their part to ease the suffering of these children and do what we can to restore stability to this region," Congressman Lynch said.
08.08.2014	BOSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging support for the Kurdish Regional Government’s (KRG) request for U.S. military equipment and intelligence assistance. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria’s (ISIS) recent attacks in the north and west of Iraq are a significant threat to Iraqi and regional stability. The KRG security forces, or Peshmerga, have played an essential role in defending Iraqi populations against ISIS attacks, and are now running dangerously low on vital armaments. ISIS’ most recent advances have been especially alarming. They are seeking to control the Mosul Dam, which could be used to threaten Iraqis all the way down the Tigris River to Baghdad. They have doubled down on their attacks on ethnic and religious minorities, such as the Yahzidis, who they drove into the mountains with no food, water or shelter. These extremists are extremely well-armed and have shown themselves to be capable of unspeakable violence. “I support the President’s decision to provide the KRG with U.S. military equipment to take on ISIS. While the targeted U.S. airstrikes will provide crucial backing, ISIS can ultimately only be defeated by the Iraqis on the ground. The KRG wants to be, and must be, part of this national effort,” said Congressman Lynch. “I urge the President to ensure that the KRG is given the armaments and intelligence assistance it needs to do its part.” The text of the letter is below: August 8, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20006 Dear Mr. President: I am writing to express my support for the Kurdish Regional Government’s (KRG) request for U.S. military equipment and intelligence assistance in its efforts against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). Like you, I am extremely disturbed by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria’s recent incursions in Iraq and, in particular, by the speed with which it has been able to wrest control of areas away from national security forces. Unfortunately, these militants are well-trained, experienced and extremely well-armed with equipment that makes them a significant threat to Iraqi and regional stability. The recent attacks in the north and west, and ISIS’ attempts to capture dams and other vital infrastructure, must be taken as a signal that the U.S. needs to provide prompt and meaningful assistance to prevent further ISIS advances. Since June, the KRG security forces, or Peshmerga, have been stepping in and defending Christians, Yahzidis and other Iraqi populations against ISIS attacks. Unfortunately, their resources are quickly dwindling, and the loss of the force multiplier provided by the Peshmerga can be potentially disastrous in staving off these militants. I am aware that the KRG recently has requested lethal military equipment, as well as intelligence, to help them in their offensive operations against ISIS. I believe that providing such assistance is appropriate: the Peshmerga have fought alongside U.S. forces for many years and the KRG has demonstrated competence and willingness to cooperate with the U.S. I support your decision to provide emergency assistance to the Iraqi and Kurdish forces in light of the ISIS approach on Irbil. I urge you to ensure that the Peshmerga receive the prompt and robust military equipment assistance they need to take on ISIS. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Cc: Secretary of State John Kerry Downloads » Lynch Letter to POTUS re: arming Kurdish forces
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) introduced H.R. 5391 the National POW/MIA Remembrance Act of 2014. The bill honors American Prisoners of War/Missing in Action (POW/MIA) by placing a chair on the grounds of the United States Capitol. Recently, POW/MIA commemorative chairs have been placed in prominent locations in cities and states across the country. This spring, Joe D’Entremont, President of Rolling Thunder MA 1, visited Washington, DC and met with Congressman Lynch. They discussed the importance of honoring these brave men and women and Congressman Lynch was eager to introduce this legislation. The chair will feature the logo of the National League of POW/MIA Families and remain unoccupied to honor their courageous service. “I am proud to work alongside Joe D’Entremont and my colleagues in order to pay our respects to the men and women who are Missing in Action or Prisoners of War. This chair will stand as a reminder to their families and our nation that we will never forget their heroic service and sacrifice,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “The U.S Capitol serves as a symbol of our nation’s history and enduring spirit, so it is appropriate to recognize those who remain unaccounted for under its dome,” Lynch added. “Massachusetts continues to set the standard for the rest of the country when it comes to honoring and taking care of our military. Our servicemen who remain unaccounted for must never be forgotten. It gives me great pride to serve the Veterans of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and to work with such patriots. May the families of our POW/MIA’s find comfort in the chairs we have placed across this country in honor of their loved ones until they are home,” said Joe D’Entremont, President of Rolling Thunder MA 1. “I send my sincere thanks to Congressman Lynch for all his work on this issue and the many issues facing our veterans,” D’Entremont added. A companion bill in the United States Senate has been introduced by Senator Elizabeth Warren.
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) introduced H.R. 5229, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2014. This bipartisan legislation would provide federal employees, who are also disabled veterans, with 104 hours of “Wounded Warrior leave” during their first year in the federal workforce so that they may seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave or forego their appointments altogether. Rep. Lynch and Rep. Farenthold respectively serve as the Ranking Member and Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service, and the Census, Rep. Cummings is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Butterfield is a senior member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Under current law, full-time federal employees accrue four hours of sick leave for each bi-weekly pay period for a total maximum of 104 hours, or 13 days, of annual sick leave. However, federal employees in their first year on the job begin their federal government careers with a zero sick leave balance. As a result, disabled veterans who have recently entered the federal workforce often do not have sufficient sick leave to attend medical appointments to treat their service-connected disabilities on a regular basis. “The lack of initial sick leave for new federal workers places a significant burden on our disabled veterans during their first year of federal employment,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Our Wounded Warrior federal employees who are just starting out in the federal workforce are often faced with the difficult choice of having to take unpaid leave to attend their V.A. appointments or miss their medical visits. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2014 provides vital federal leave for our heroic and dedicated wounded warriors so that they are able to take the time they need to address their disabilities, while continuing their much appreciated service to our country,” added Lynch. In particular, the Wounded Warriors Leave Act of 2014 would provide first-year federal employees with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or greater with 104 hours of “Wounded Warriors leave” for the purposes of undergoing medical treatment for their disabilities. In order for eligible federal employees to make use of such leave, the bill would simply require employees to submit certification to their agency as prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management. Given that these dedicated federal workers will have accumulated up to 104 hours of traditional federal sick leave by the beginning of their second year on the job, this legislation would also provide that any unused “Wounded Warriors leave” would not be carried over to the following year. “While we can never fully repay the debt incurred by the men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our freedom, I am proud to support this legislation that would provide disabled veterans that enter the federal workforce the opportunity to seek medical treatment for their service-connected disabilities without being forced to take unpaid leave,” Chairman Blake Farenthold said. “These wounded warriors want to keep serving their country and the American people. This legislation will help with their transition by providing a bank of leave in their first year of federal employment that they can use for medical treatments while continuing their public service,” Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings stated. “I am pleased to introduce this important piece of legislation with Representatives Lynch, Farenthold, and Cummings that will help disabled veterans in public service to receive the care they need and have earned,” Congressman G. K. Butterfield said. “Veterans with service-connected disabilities deserve to be able to attend VA appointments or physical therapy without having to take unpaid leave during their first year on the job. This bill will immediately help veterans in public service across North Carolina and at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, and Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth City.” H.R. 5229 has been endorsed by the Federal Managers Association, the American Federation of Government Employees, and the National Treasury Employees Union.
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3802, which extends the legislative authority of the Adams Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work in honor of former President John Adams and his legacy. The bill extends the authorization for seven years through December 2, 2020. It allows the Adams Memorial Foundation, the National Park Service, the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission and all stakeholders to continue working toward the goal of siting and building a commemorative memorial honoring former President John Adams and his family and their role in shaping the nation. Congressman Lynch said, “I am proud to represent the City of Quincy, nicknamed the ‘City of Presidents,’ in the House of Representatives. Quincy is home to the Adams National Historic Park, which honors the legacy of John Adams and the five generations of the Adams family who lived there until 1927. John Adams was a champion of independence, defender of due process, diplomat, Vice President, and President of the United States. John Adams has a lasting legacy as one of our most influential founding fathers. He is the author of the Massachusetts Constitution, the oldest continuously functioning written Constitution in the world and the document after which the United States Constitution was modeled. John Adams was a dedicated public servant who devoted his life to the ideals and values that built our country and which many of us continue to hold dear.” Lynch continued, “The fact that there is no memorial in our nation’s capital dedicated to this remarkable leader and steadfast public servant is a glaring oversight that must be corrected. The passage of this bill allows the foundation the time it needs to find an appropriate location in Washington, D.C. for this worthy memorial.” The bill was originally introduced in the House of Representatives by former Congressman William Delahunt. The last authorization extension expired on December 2, 2013. The Adams Memorial Foundation includes members of the Adams family and respected historians in its leadership. In addition to Congressman Lynch, all 8 Members of the Massachusetts House Delegation are original cosponsors of the bill. A companion bill in the United States Senate has been introduced by Senator Ed Markey and cosponsored by Senator Elizabeth Warren.
07.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a senior member of the Subcommittee on National Security, is a part of a bipartisan congressional delegation mission this week that includes stops in El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. In addition to Congressman Lynch, the delegation is led by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and includes US Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX), US Rep. Kerry Bentivolio (R-MI), and US Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). The purpose of the delegation will be to conduct firsthand oversight of the dramatic increase in the number of unaccompanied children arriving at the United States southern border from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. In recent months, about 80% of the unaccompanied children have been coming from these three Central American countries. The delegation will meet with high-level Government leaders and immigration officials in an attempt to determine the root causes of the surge in illegal immigration and will conduct site visits to several migrant processing centers. The delegation will also conduct coordinated meetings with non-governmental organization representatives in order to assess the current humanitarian and security situation in the region and to curtail the surge in high-risk migration of thousands of unaccompanied children, many as young as thirteen. ###
07.02.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch released the following statement regarding the murder of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank: "Our prayers are with the families of Eyal Yifrach, Naftali Fraenkel and Gilad Shaar who were abducted and murdered in the West Bank. We mourn their loss as we offer support to their loved ones and seek justice for those who committed these atrocities. In the wake of this terrible tragedy, I also renew Prime Minister Netanyahu’s call for “all sides not take the law into their own hands.” We must make every effort to prevent further violence and refrain from any acts of revenge.”
06.27.2014	On Friday, June 27, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will visit the Community Living Center at the Brockton VA Campus. In addition, he will meet with Vincent Ng, director of the Boston VA Healthcare System, to review the circumstances of the two reported cases of patient neglect. Congressman Lynch is deeply troubled by the recent allegations of patient neglect cited by the Office of Special Counsel in its June 23rd report to President Obama. He released the following statement on the allegations: “These instances of patient mistreatment and neglect as described by whistleblower complaints are totally unacceptable. While the vast majority of VA doctors, nurses and staff are dedicated hardworking professionals, every veteran deserves high quality care and must be able to trust and rely on our veterans facilities. Congress was in session until today, however I will be at the Brockton VA tomorrow to meet with administrators and review the circumstances of these two reported cases. I remain committed to fully investigating these allegations and working to resolve the issues with the VA healthcare system.” Due to privacy concerns, the walkthrough and meeting will be closed press, but Congressman Lynch will be available after the visit for comment. WHAT: Visit to Brockton VA Campus WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch Vincent Ng, Director, Boston VA Healthcare System WHEN: Friday, June 27, 10:15 a.m. (closed press walkthrough/meeting) Media availability at 11:15 a.m. WHERE: Outside of the Community Living Center Brockton VA Campus, Building 4 940 Belmont Street Brockton, MA 02301
06.06.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, in conjunction with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), invites residents of the 8th Congressional District to attend a general information session focused on navigating the immigration process. The event is scheduled for Monday, June 16th, at the West Middle School, 271 West Street, Brockton. Congressman Lynch and representatives from USCIS will present information on the processes of obtaining permanent residence and naturalization, including the naturalization test and the rights and responsibilities of U.S. Citizenship. Representatives from the Massachusetts Immigration and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA) will also give a presentation on the Unauthorized Practice of Immigration Law.WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch & Representatives from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) WHAT: Community Information Session on Permanent Residency & Citizenship Process WHEN: Monday, June 16th TIME: 6:00pm – 8:00pm WHERE: West Middle School Auditorium 271 West Street Brockton MA 02301
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) offered a bipartisan amendment to add the text of his legislation, the Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act, to H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act. Congressman Charles Boustany (R-LA), a senior member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, served as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On Wednesday, the House of Representatives approved the amendment by voice vote and passed the larger National Defense Authorization Act the next day. Congressman Lynch said, “We owe an enormous debt of gratitude to America’s veterans who have served to protect and defend our country and the ideals that we cherish. This moment of silence is a simple but meaningful way for all of us to come together to acknowledge their sacrifices, express our thanks, and to let them and their families know we have not forgotten their service to our country.” The Veterans Day Moment of Silence Amendment calls for two minutes of silence every Veterans Day to recognize and reflect on the service and sacrifices of all veterans, past and present. Its set time of 2:11 EST allows for all 50 states and Puerto Rico to take part. The amendment was the inspiration of the Bendetson family: Daniel, Michael, and their father, Dr. Peter Bendetson, of Weston, Massachusetts. “It was my honor and privilege to offer this amendment on behalf of the Bendetsons,” continued Lynch. “I am very pleased that it passed in the House of Representatives and I thank Congressman Boustany for his support.”
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, in recognition of National Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch introduced H.R. 4690, a Bill to Establish a National EMS Memorial. This bill seeks to authorize the National EMS Memorial Foundation to undertake the effort of designing, siting, and creating a memorial in Washington, D.C., to honor the service and sacrifices of our nation’s emergency medical service providers. Congressman Lynch said, “I am very pleased to introduce this legislation to establish a memorial to honor the dedicated service and commitment of the men and women of our Emergency Medical Services (EMS) across the nation. Each year, 850,000 men and women answer more than 30 million calls to serve 22 million patients in need of pre-hospital care at a moment’s notice and they do so without reservation.” “EMS providers are a critical component of our nation’s homeland and national security efforts,” Lynch continued. “The men and women of EMS are often our nation’s first line of defense in the prevention and mitigation of risk from terrorist attacks, man-made incidents, and natural disasters, putting their lives on the line every day in order to provide critical care for their patients. Over 600 men and women of our nation’s emergency medical services have made the ultimate sacrifice while performing their duties. This memorial is long overdue. I am proud to introduce this legislation to ensure that these men and women, their families and their loved ones are recognized for their ultimate sacrifice and to honor the hard work and dedication of all EMS providers nationwide.”
05.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a senior member of Subcommittee on National Security, is part of a bipartisan congressional delegation mission this week that includes stops in China, Mongolia and Ukraine. The delegation is led by Congressman Steve Chabot (R-OH), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. During this mission, the two will meet with Chinese, Mongolian and Ukrainian government officials, political leadership and business groups among others. The purpose of the delegation is to conduct official discussions with high-ranking government leaders regarding political, economic, and security issues affecting bilateral and regional relationships in China, Mongolia and Ukraine. During the visit to China, Congressman Lynch met with high-ranking Chinese officials. In his meeting, Congressman Lynch raised serious concerns regarding the recent dispute involving Chinese Oil companies and the Government of Vietnam near the Paracel islands as well as other maritime disputes brought on by aggressive Chinese territorial policies in the East China and South China seas. Congressman Lynch defended the intellectual property rights of U.S. companies doing business in China and expressed strong opposition to widespread cyber-attacks against U.S. government agencies and U.S. companies that have been traced back to China-based entities. The visit to Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, comes on the heels of Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s visit last month and as the country continues its political and economic development as the only Asian Communist nation to successfully transition to democracy. In particular, the CODEL will examine key issues pertaining to the strategic partnership between the U.S. and Mongolia, including supporting greater bilateral trade and economic reforms, and further strengthening the U.S.-Mongolian defense relationship. The Members will also meet with Mongolian soldiers that served in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. As a senior member of the House Oversight Committee that has been investigating the September 11, 2012 attacks on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, Congressman Lynch will also assess the progress of ongoing security upgrades and construction at Embassy Ulaanbaatar. The visit to Ukraine comes in the aftermath of continued violence in eastern Ukraine and in advance of the Presidential Elections that will be held on May 25th. The delegation will meet with government officials, democratic opposition leaders and U.S. State Department officials in Kiev to continue to assess the ongoing situation in Crimea. This will be Congressman Lynch’s second visit to Ukraine since Russia’s recent invasion and annexation of Crimea.
05.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Massachusetts Senators Edward J. Markey and Elizabeth Warren and Congressmen Michael Capuano and Stephen Lynch today applauded the inclusion of the $310 million Boston Harbor dredging project in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). The funding for the Boston Harbor Federal Deep Draft Navigation Improvement Project to deepen the Harbor’s main navigation channels will come in WRRDA reauthorization, legislation that will authorize the dredging project and other water projects throughout the country. According to Massport, dredging Boston Harbor will help double the number of containers on ships coming into Boston. The Army Corps projects that for every dollar spent on construction, there will be nearly nine dollars returned in increased economic activity – resulting in a $2.7 billion economic benefit for the entire New England region. In November 2013, the entire Massachusetts delegation wrote to WRRDA committee leadership strongly supporting inclusion of the project in final legislation. “Boston Harbor is an economic anchor for the entire New England region, and this investment will help ensure its future as a port of world-class distinction,” said Senator Markey. “Improving the harbor to accommodate more and larger ships will bring more jobs, more investment and more economic activity to the harbor, extending Boston’s position as a shining city upon a hill as well as the shore. I thank Senator Warren, Reps. Capuano and Lynch and the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation for their leadership and commitment to securing this vital funding.” “The Boston Harbor Improvement Project is what investment in infrastructure is all about: a deeper harbor means increasing container traffic at the harbor, and every tax dollar spent will produce nearly $9 in business activity. I commend the Environment and Public Works Committee for including this critical funding in the WRRDA,” said Senator Warren. “This kind of federal investment helps strengthen our economy in Boston and throughout the Commonwealth.” “I have been working to advance this project for several years and I thank my colleagues on the conference committee for making it a priority,” said Rep. Capuano. “This dredging work is necessary to deepen Boston Harbor’s navigation channels so that it can accommodate newer, larger ships and create more jobs in Boston. The project brings an economic benefit that will be felt throughout the region.” “I am very pleased that the Water Resources Reform and Development Act will authorize $310 million for the Boston Harbor Federal Deep Draft Navigation Improvement Project,” said Rep. Lynch. “The Port of Boston is a vital economic resource for the Commonwealth as well as the entire New England region. This project will have a significant economic impact on Massachusetts not only in terms of jobs but will also allow the Port of Boston to remain globally competitive. I commend Senator Warren, Senator Markey and Congressman Capuano for all of their hard work and commitment to ensuring that this funding was approved by Congress. I remain committed and look forward to working with them, the entire Massachusetts delegation, and all invested parties as this project moves forward.” “This news will have an enormous impact on the City of Boston, and will contribute to our long-term growth,” said Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh. “This is another step towards strengthening Boston's role as a world-class city, with a world-class port at its hub. I'd like to thank Senators Markey and Warren and Congressmen Capuano and Lynch for their leadership on this issue.”
05.09.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that Isabelle Xu of Westwood has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” in the Eighth Congressional District. The annual national art competition is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 15 young artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings, and other mediums. In the end, the judges selected “Window” by Isabelle Xu, a sophomore at Westwood High School in Westwood. Isabelle used colored pencil to depict a trumpet sitting on top of a city showing a piece of blue sky through its handle to show modern city life in harmony with mother nature. The judges remarked on Isabelle’s excellent draftsmanship and well-done, imaginative composition. This is Isabelle’s second consecutive year winning the competition. Her artwork has been sent to Washington, D.C., where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Isabelle Xu’s winning entry demonstrates considerable skill and talent as well as creativity,” said Congressman Lynch. “Isabelle is an extremely gifted young artist and she is a wonderful reflection of her father and mother, Anqing Xu and Ying Zhang. In addition, her work reflects the superb instruction of her art teacher, Yuanan Cheng. ” Lynch added, “All of this year’s submissions were excellent, and it is obvious from this competition that we have some truly talented young artists in the Eighth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
04.24.2014	ATLANTA, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a co-chair of the House Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, participated in a bipartisan Congressional Panel at the National Prescription Drug Summit in Atlanta, Georgia. The summit, hosted by Operation UNITE, brought together law enforcement agencies, government officials, medical personnel, pharmacists and individuals to discuss the prescription drug abuse epidemic that is rampant across the nation. “Prescription drug abuse is an epidemic across our nation and has been taking an exacting toll on individuals, families and communities,” said Congressman Lynch. “Addiction does not discriminate. It affects all individuals regardless of age, gender, race, and socioeconomic background. This conference brought together officials from all different fields to discuss the effects of prescription drug abuse and reflect on possible solutions to this ongoing problem. It is incumbent upon all of us to continue to work together to combat this problem.” Lynch continued, “I was honored to serve as a member of yesterday's Congressional Panel in order to bring attention to the devastating effects that prescription drug abuse has on individuals and families. I commend my colleagues on the House Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse for working in a bipartisan manner to address this important issue. I remain committed to helping individuals and families in my district, across the Commonwealth, and across the nation who are suffering from the consequences of addiction.” As a member of the Congressional Panel, one of the issues that Congressman Lynch focused on was his legislation, H.R. 4241, the Act to Ban Zohydro, which was introduced in the House of Representatives last month. This bill seeks to withdraw the FDA's recent approval of the hydrocodone-only opioid narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER in its current formulation. The FDA approved the drug despite an 11-2 vote by their own advisory panel against doing so. In its current non-abuse deterrent formulation, Zohydro has a high likelihood of abuse due to potential for tampering by chewing, crushing, breaking, or dissolving. The Act to Ban Zohydro would seek to withdraw approval until the drug is available in an abuse deterrent formulation. In addition to Congressman Lynch, the bipartisan panel included 4 other members of the House Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse of which 2 were Republicans. Panelists included: Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), Congressman Nick Rahall (D-WV) , Congressman Tom Price (R-GA), and Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), founding co-chair of the House Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday, the Senate passed the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act by a vote of 59 to 38, which retroactively extends emergency unemployment insurance through the end of May. Congressman Lynch released the following statement on passage of this bipartisan legislation to extend unemployment insurance: “Over two million Americans, including 200,000 veterans, have lost their unemployment insurance since the program expired at the end of last year. In Massachusetts alone, 79,777 people have lost their unemployment insurance. I commend my colleagues in the Senate for their bipartisan work on this important issue for the American people.” “These benefits are a critical economic lifeline for the countless men and women who have lost their jobs,” Lynch continued. “I am committed to ensuring that hard-working American men and women receive these benefits. That is why I am proud to sign on to a letter urging Speaker Boehner to take immediate action and bring this Senate bill to the House Floor for a vote.” Congressman Lynch has joined 192 other House Democrats in signing a discharge petition to hold a vote on extending unemployment insurance. The discharge petition will require the House to consider the unemployment insurance extension legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. In March, Congressman Lynch also joined with 161 House Democrats in sending a letter to Speaker John Boehner urging an up-or-down vote on unemployment insurance extension to help jobless veterans after a report released by Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that close to 200,000 veterans are among those who have lost their UI benefits.
04.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2014 Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C., for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 8th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed in the Congressman’s Boston Office. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by Thursday, April 24, 2014. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at 617-428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov/, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Isabelle Xu of Westwood, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
03.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Madison Devine of Walpole for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Madison, the daughter of James Devine and Marie Elena Levoy-Devine, is a senior at Fontbonne Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Madison was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Fontbonne Academy. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Madison are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Madison was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Madison stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, James and Marie Elena. The Devine family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Madison in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Denis Glinski of Milton for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Denis, the son of Edward Glinski and Denise Kenneally, is a graduate of Boston College High School and currently a student at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Denis was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School and the University of Massachusetts, Boston. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Denis are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Denis was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Denis stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Edward and Denise. The Glinski family, Milton and the entire state should be proud of Denis in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.23.2014	Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-MA) with Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) being briefed by the Afghan Special Operations Command Sergeant Major and U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a senior member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, is on a bipartisan congressional delegation this week in Afghanistan that also includes stops in Ukraine and Israel. The delegation is being led by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN), both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The purpose of the delegation is to conduct official discussions with high-ranking government leaders regarding political, economic, military and security issues affecting bilateral and regional relationships in Afghanistan, Israel and Ukraine. As a co-chair of the House Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, Congressman Lynch will also review the state of Afghanistan’s banking reform in the wake of the collapse of Kabul Bank in 2010. Similarly, Lynch will try to assess the progress of ongoing international efforts to recover billions of dollars in missing Ukrainian funds that were misappropriated by former Ukrainian government officials. In Afghanistan, Congressman Lynch met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and members of the Afghan Wolsei Jirga, Massachusetts Soldiers and Marines, and State Department officials. The delegation also included meetings with General Joseph Dunford, the current commander of all U.S. and international forces in Afghanistan and a native of South Boston and Quincy, and James Cunningham, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan. The visit to Afghanistan comes as the continued drawdown of American military forces and the transition of security responsibility to the Afghan security forces moves forward and preparations for the April 5th presidential election are underway.
03.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a senior member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, is part of a congressional delegation mission this week that includes stops in Ukraine and Israel. The delegation is led by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN), both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. During this mission, the three will meet with Israeli and Palestinian and Ukrainian political leadership and military leaders, and U.S. service members among others. The purpose of the delegation is to conduct official discussions with high-ranking government leaders regarding political, economic, and security issues affecting bilateral and regional relationships in Israel and Ukraine. As a co-chair of the House Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, Congressman Lynch will also assess the progress of ongoing international efforts to recover billions of dollars in missing Ukrainian funds that were misappropriated by former Ukrainian government officials. The visit to Israel includes meetings with President Shimon Peres and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu as well as visits with Palestinian leaders in Ramallah in the West Bank. The visit comes during negotiations for a possible peace deal between Israel and Palestine and will also focus on regional security issues. The visit to Ukraine includes talks with government officials and democratic opposition leaders in Kiev and comes in light of Russia’s recent invasion and annexation of Crimea.
03.20.2014	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service & the Census, issued the following statement in response to the reports released by the Department of Defense on the Washington Navy Yard Shooting and the report released by the Office of Management and Budget after a 120-day review of the federal government’s security clearance and suitability process ordered by President Obama after the Washington Navy Yard Shooting last September: “The recent government reviews related to the tragic shootings at the Washington Navy Yard again highlight the significant lapses in our security clearance framework. As the sponsor of H.R. 4022, the Security Clearance Reform Act, I am encouraged that both the Department of Defense and the Office of Management and Budget have called for the implementation of continuous evaluation of federal security clearances as well as increased information-sharing among federal, state, and local law enforcement entities. Our legislation, cosponsored by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, would require that those steps be taken. H.R. 4022 would also require that only federal employees, rather than outside contractors, are assigned the most critical work, including Top Secret level-background investigations. Hopefully, we can now achieve bipartisan support for these common sense reforms.”
03.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Austin Roberts of East Bridgewater for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Austin, the son of Ralph and Lisa Roberts, is a graduate of Brockton High School and currently a student at Phillips Exeter Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Austin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High School and Phillips Exeter Academy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Austin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Austin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Austin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Ralph and Lisa. The Roberts family, East Bridgewater and the entire state should be proud of Austin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Morgan O’Brien for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Morgan, the son of Lawrence and Nancy O’Brien, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Morgan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Morgan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Morgan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Morgan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Lawrence and Nancy. The O’Brien family, Roslindale and the entire state should be proud of Morgan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jonathan Kelland of East Walpole for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Jonathan, the son of Jim and Marilyn Kelland, is a senior at Walpole High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jonathan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Walpole High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jonathan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jonathan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Jonathan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jim and Marilyn. The Kelland family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Jonathan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Baldwin of Quincy for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Matthew, the son of Mark and Kathleen, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mark and Kathleen. The Baldwin family, Quincy and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Stephen Campo of Milton for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Stephen, the son of John and Joanne Campo, is a graduate of Boston College High School and currently a freshman at Villanova University. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Stephen was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School and Villanova University. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Stephen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Stephen was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Stephen stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Joanne. The Campo family, Milton and the entire state should be proud of Stephen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.14.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch released the following statement upon Senate passage of H.R. 3370, the bipartisan, compromise Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act: "I am very pleased that the U.S. Senate agreed to our compromise flood insurance relief legislation, which will stop the unintended consequences of the Biggert-Waters Act for homeowners in my district and across Massachusetts who have been harmed by recent flood insurance premium increases. The bill will dramatically reduce scheduled premium increases and reimburse covered homeowners who were forced to pay exorbitant premiums under the Biggert Waters Act. The newly-passed relief bill will also improve the Federal Emergency Management Agency's troubled mapping procedures and ensure that local communities and Members of Congress have a greater say early in the mapping process. For those homeowners who successfully challenged their elevation rating, the bill also provides for reimbursement. This bill represents real relief for homeowners, and I congratulate my colleagues Senators Liz Warren and Ed Markey for their swift action to pass this critical legislation. We fully expect that the President will follow the Senate's lead and sign this bill into law as soon as possible." The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act passed the Senate by an overwhelming vote of 72-22. It passed the House on March 4, 2014, by a vote of 306-91.
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-MA), a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, and Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, introduced the Act to Ban Zohydro. The bill seeks to withdraw approval for the high-dose narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER and prohibit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from approving such a drug in a formulation that is not abuse deterrent. The FDA’s recent approval of Zohydro ER against its own advisory panel’s recommendation highlighted the need for Congress to take immediate action. The Anesthetic and Anagelsic Drug Products Advisory Committee, which is charged with advising the FDA on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products, voted 11-2 against approving the drug without an abuse deterrent citing concerns over the potential for addiction. Substance abuse has been exacting a toll on America and the number of deaths reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) due to prescription drug abuse has spiked in recent years. According to the CDC, the number of deaths connected to prescription opioids has more than quadrupled in the United States from 4,030 deaths involving painkillers in 1999 to 16,651 deaths in 2010. Opioid based drugs were involved in 3 out 4 pharmaceutical overdose deaths in 2010. In 2014, the CDC has made it a top priority to reduce deaths attributable to prescription painkiller abuse. “Zohydro ER is a high-dose hydrocone-only opioid narcotic painkiller that does not have an abuse deterrent formulation,” said Congressman Lynch. “Allowing access to a drug so powerful, without this critical component, creates risks for the public drug we simply cannot afford. The FDA recently has taken positive steps in the regulation of opioids, including reclassifying hydrocodone combination products such as Lortab and Vicodin to a more restrictive Schedule II drug and updating labeling requirements for all extended release/long acting (ER/LA) opioid analgesics. However, this is a giant step backwards at a critical time when prescription drug abuse has fast become a rampant problem across the nation. We cannot afford to allow yet another highly addictive opioid into the mainstream and potentially onto Main Street America.” “While the FDA continues to send mixed signals to drug companies about the need to invest in abuse deterrent technologies, the Act to Ban Zohydro will make it abundantly clear – life saving measures are critical to the development of powerful painkillers like Zohydro,” said Congressman Rogers. “Someone dies every 16 minutes from a prescription drug overdose, making it the leading cause of accidental deaths in the United States. In southern and eastern Kentucky, we lost nearly an entire generation when crushable OxyContin was first prescribed, and I fear this crushable, pure hydrocodone pill will take us backwards with a new wave of addiction and tragic, untimely deaths. While there isn’t a silver bullet, abuse deterrent formulations offer common sense measures to curb the tide of overdose deaths in this country." The Act to Ban Zohydro will take steps to reduce the proliferation of powerfully addictive opioid painkillers that lead so many Americans down the road to devastating substance abuse. Congressman Lynch and Congressman Rogers understand the needs of chronic pain sufferers; however, approving Zohydro ER without an abuse deterrent formulation puts our nation’s public health at a great risk due to the high likelihood for abuse. In addition, 11 Members of the House of Representatives have signed on as original cosponsors of the bill. Today, Senator Joe Manchin introduced a companion bill in the Senate. Congressman Lynch and Congressman Rogers join in urging their colleagues to support this bipartisan, bicameral effort to stop another potentially harmful and highly addictive drug from being on the market. The FDA’s approval of Zohydro ER will also be a highlighted topic during the 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia as leaders across the country discuss a holistic approach to the prescription drug abuse epidemic. Original cosigners of the bill: Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA), Congressman Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Congressman Michael Michaud (D-ME), Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Congressman Paul Tonko (D-NY), Congressman Brian Higgins (D-NY), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA).
03.11.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Noah Kung of Walpole for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Noah, the son of Andrew and Cindy Kung, is a senior at Walpole High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Noah was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Walpole High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Noah are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Noah was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Noah stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Andrew and Cindy. The Kung family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Noah in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.11.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Benjamin Meltzer for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Benjamin, the son of Barry and Mary-Ellen Meltzer, is a senior at West Bridgewater Junior-Senior High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Benjamin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at West Bridgewater Junior-Senior High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Benjamin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Benjamin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Naval Academy. Benjamin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Barry and Mary-Ellen. The Meltzer family, West Bridgewater and the entire state should be proud of Benjamin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House passed a compromise amendment to H.R. 3370, the bipartisan Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, backed by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), which will provide meaningful relief for most homeowners suffering from unfair and extreme flood insurance premium increases. Congressman Lynch has been working for the past several months, along with a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the House and Senate, to stop these harmful flood insurance rate hikes, which were the unintended consequences of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012. The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act will also impose meaningful reforms to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) flawed flood mapping process. The bill passed the House by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 306-91. After voting for the bill, Congressman Lynch made the following statement: "Today’s bill is the result of several months of hard work and a week of productive negotiations between Democrats and Republicans, which has resulted in a bill that will give meaningful relief for most homeowners and businesses in my district subject to FEMA’s flood maps. Although the bill does not bring relief to owners of second homes we will continue to pursue that effort. Not only does this bill roll back the most egregious and unfair premium increases that were the unintended consequence of the Biggert-Waters Act, but it also brings transparency and accountability to FEMA’s troubled and error-prone flood mapping process. I would like to thank Ranking Member Maxine Waters, Republican leadership, and all the members who worked so hard to bring this legislation to this point.” Specifically, H.R. 3370 includes the following provisions: Repeals rate increase “triggers”: This provision will ensure that no homeowner sees the kinds of dramatic rate increases after buying or selling a home, or because of a lapsed policy. Restores grandfathering: This provision restores the practice of “grandfathering,” which ensures that homeowners are not negatively affected by relying on FEMA maps that later turn out to be wrong. Capping Rate Increases: This provision will reduce the maximum amount that FEMA can increase flood insurance premiums from 20% to 15% for most properties. Refunding Premiums Already Paid: This provision will direct FEMA to refund flood insurance premiums that homeowners have already paid that are in excess of the lower rates achieved by H.R. 3370. Completion of the Affordability Study and Framework: This provision gives FEMA the necessary funding to complete the affordability study mandated by the Biggert-Waters Act and requires it to transmit the study, along with a framework for achieving affordable flood insurance premiums, to Congress. Additionally, Congressman Lynch and his Democratic colleagues fought to include additional improvements to a Republican proposal originally scheduled for a vote last week: Capping increases to individual policies: The Republican amendment would have capped the average increase across a given risk class at 15%, but individual homeowners could have seen their policies increase by significantly more. The compromise amendment backed by Representative Lynch keeps the average cap at 15% but ensures that no individual policy can increase by more than 18%. Protecting Properties Newly Mapped into a Flood Zone: A priority item for Representative Lynch, the compromise text ensures that properties that are newly included in a flood zone are protected from immediate and extreme rate increases. Under this provision, these properties will enter the program at a significantly lower preferred risk premium level, and will be protected by the same 15% rate increase cap as all other properties going forward. Transparent and Accountable Mapping Process: Another priority item for Representative Lynch, under the compromise text FEMA will be required to notify Members of Congress and affected communities of its intention to issue revised flood maps at least 60 days before the preliminary map is released, and mandates that FEMA work with communities to agree on appropriate data and mapping models. Affordability Goals for FEMA: In addition to looking for ways to make the National Flood Insurance Program actuarially sound, FEMA is also directed to minimize the number of policies that have premiums in excess of 1% of the total coverage under the policy. Protections for Vulnerable Policyholders: The compromise text also requires FEMA to monitor and report on the affordability of policies for small business, non-profit organizations, houses of worship, and low income homeowners, and requires FEMA to provide Congress with recommendations to address any negative effects for these properties. “I urge our colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation and for the President to sign it into law as soon as possible,” Lynch added. “Homeowners in my district cannot afford to wait any longer.”
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Gillespie of West Roxbury for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Joseph, the son of Joseph and Melissa Gillespie, is a graduate of Boston Latin School and currently a freshman at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the Boston Latin School and the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Naval Academy. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Joseph and Melissa. The Gillespie family, West Roxbury and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Fred Mathelier, Jr., of Brockton for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Fred, the son of Fred and Michelle Mathelier, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Fred was highly recommended by his teachers at Brockton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Fred are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Fred was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy. Fred stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Fred and Michelle. The Mathelier family, Brockton and the entire state should be proud of Fred in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Patrick Ward of Canton for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Patrick, the son of William and Pamela Ward, is a graduate of Canton High School and currently a student at the Kents Hill School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Patrick was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High School and the Kents Hill School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Patrick are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Patrick was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Air Force Academy. Patrick stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, William and Pamela. The Ward family, Canton and the entire state should be proud of Patrick in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Connor DiVincenzo of Westwood for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Connor, the son of Jonathan and Amy DiVincenzo, is a senior at Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Connor was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Connor are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Connor was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Connor stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jonathan and Amy. The DiVincenzo family, Westwood and the entire state should be proud of Connor in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Brian Fahey of Quincy for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Brian, the son of Brian and AnneMarie Fahey, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Brian was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Brian are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Brian was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Brian stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Brian and AnneMarie. The Fahey family, Quincy and the entire state should be proud of Brian in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.04.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Timothy Mills for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Timothy, the son of Walter and Eileen Mills, is a senior at Thayer Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Timothy was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Thayer Academy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Timothy are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Timothy was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Timothy stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Walter and Eileen. The Mills family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Timothy in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, February 26th, Congressman Lynch signed the discharge petition led by Congressman Tim Bishop (D-NY) to bring up H.R. 1010, the Fair Minimum Wage Act, for a vote on the House Floor. The bill, of which Congressman Lynch is an original cosponsor, would increase the minimum wage over three years from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour, indexes future annual increases to inflation thereafter, and gradually increases the tipped minimum wage to 70 percent of the minimum wage. Congressman Lynch said, “I am committed to ensuring that hard-working American men and women receive fair wages for a day’s work. The current minimum wage pays approximately $14,500 per year. It is unacceptable that Americans with full-time jobs are living in poverty. ” “Working men and women are the backbone of America,” Lynch continued. “This legislation is critical for the economic well-being of our nation, and will encourage greater economic growth. The Fair Minimum Wage Act would ensure that working men and women receive a fair wage. I am a proud cosponsor of this bill, and I am proud to sign this discharge petition to urge immediate action on the House Floor on this important legislation.” The Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010) amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to increase the federal minimum wage for employees to $10.10 an hour over two years. After three years, the minimum wage amount will be indexed to inflation. Additionally, H.R. 1010 will increase the federal minimum wage for tipped employees to $3.00 an hour during the first year, while providing a formula for subsequent annual adjustments. The Fair Minimum Wage Act was originally introduced in the House by Rep. George Miller (D-CA), and currently has 196 cosponsors. The discharge petition will require the House to consider the minimum wage legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition.
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, who represents the City of Quincy in the Massachusetts 8th Congressional District, testified before the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in support of his bill, H.R. 3802, which would extend the legislative authority of the Adams Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work in honor of former President John Adams and his legacy. Congressman Lynch is the lead sponsor of the bill, which would reauthorize the Adams Memorial Foundation through December 2, 2020. This bill will allow the Adams Memorial Foundation and all stakeholders to continue working towards the goal of siting and building a commemorative memorial honoring President John Adams and his family and the role they played in shaping the nation. Congressman Lynch stated, “I have the honor of representing the City of Quincy, nicknamed the ‘City of Presidents,’ in the House of Representatives. Massachusetts played a central role in the shaping of our nation and Quincy is currently home to one of the nation’s significant national parks, the Adams National Historical Park, which preserves and celebrates the birthplace of John Adams and the location where his family resided until 1927.” “John Adams was a defender of due process, champion of independence, diplomat, Vice President, President, and Founding Father,” said Lynch. “He authored the Massachusetts Constitution, the oldest continuously functioning written constitution in the world, and the document after which the United States Constitution was modeled. He dedicated his entire life to developing and defending the ideals that have built and defined our nation and that we continue to hold dear today.” Lynch continued, “Yet, there is no memorial in our nation’s capital dedicated to one of our most influential founding fathers. This is a tragic omission that needs to be rectified. This bill will provide the foundation the time it needs to find an appropriate, agreed upon location in our nation’s capital for the site of this worthy memorial. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in the Massachusetts Delegation to ensuring that this oversight is corrected.” The bill was originally introduced in the House of Representatives in 2001 by former Congressman William Delahunt. The Adams Memorial Foundation includes in its leadership members of the Adams family and respected historians. In addition to Congressman Lynch, all 8 Members of the Massachusetts House Delegation have signed onto the bill as original cosponsors. A companion bill in the United States Senate has been introduced by Senator Ed Markey and cosponsored by Senator Elizabeth Warren.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Benjamin Maude for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Benjamin, the son of Michael and Anna Maude, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Benjamin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Benjamin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Benjamin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Benjamin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Michael and Anna. The Maude family, Hingham and the entire state should be proud of Benjamin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kathryn Lovett for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Kathryn, the daughter of John and Constance Lovett, is a senior at Weymouth High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Kathryn was highly recommended by her teachers at Weymouth High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Kathryn are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kathryn was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Kathryn stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, John and Constance. The Lovett family, Weymouth and the entire state should be proud of Kathryn in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated James Conley for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. James, the son of Daniel and Patricia Conley, is a senior at the Roxbury Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “James was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the Roxbury Latin School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like James are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, James was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. James stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Daniel and Patricia. The Conley family, West Roxbury and the entire state should be proud of James in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Smith of Westwood for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Andrew, the son of Jeffrey and Alice Smith, is a senior at Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jeffrey and Alice. The Smith family, Westwood and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John Carroll of Milton for appointment to the United States Military Academy. John, the son of Kevin and Kathryn Carroll, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Kevin and Kathryn. The Carroll family, Milton and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew McLellan of Quincy to the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Matthew, the son of Scott and Mary Anne McLellan, is a senior at Quincy High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Quincy High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Scott and Mary Anne. The McLellan family, Quincy and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Garrett Mitchell of Walpole for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Garrett, the son of Garrett and Lisa Mitchell, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Garrett was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Garrett are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Garrett was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy. Garrett stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Garrett and Lisa. The Mitchell family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Garrett in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Thomas O’Connell of Braintree for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Thomas, the son of John and Kathleen O’Connell, is a senior at Braintree High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Thomas was highly recommended by his teachers at Braintree High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Thomas are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Thomas was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy. Thomas stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Kathleen. The O’Connell family, Braintree and the entire state should be proud of Thomas in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Michael Ashe for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Michael, the son of David and Lynda Ashe, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Michael was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Michael are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Michael was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Michael stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, David and Lynda. The Ashe family, Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Michael in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John O’Brien of Cohasset for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. John, the son of Timothy and Linda O’Brien, is a senior at Cohasset High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers at Cohasset High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Timothy and Linda. The O’Brien family, Cohasset and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.18.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated William Conroy of Dorchester for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. William, the son of William and Janet Conroy, is a senior at Catholic Memorial School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “William was highly recommended by his teachers at Catholic Memorial School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like William are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, William was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Naval Academy. William stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, William and Janet. The Conroy family, Dorchester and the entire state should be proud of William in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.18.2014	Washington, DC – Last week, President Barack Obama signed into law legislation sponsored by Chairman Blake Farenthold (R-TX) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce to better ensure that security clearance investigations will be subject to meaningful federal oversight. Regarding H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act (Office of Personnel Management Inspector General Act), being signed into law, Congressman Lynch stated: “I am very pleased to hear that President Obama has signed H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act. The tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard involving Aaron Alexis again made clear that it is imperative for the federal government to conduct rigorous oversight of agency background check investigations. Towards this end, the OPM IG Act will provide critical resources to allow the federal government to audit and investigate key background check programs including the Federal Investigative Service, which performs over 90% of background investigations for federal agencies. It is important for our national security and I am pleased that it is now officially the law. I would like to thank Chairman Farenthold for working together with me on this issue, and Chairman Darryl Issa and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings for their support of this important legislation.” The Farenthold-Lynch bill passed the House of Representatives on January 14th by a vote of 418-0 and passed the United States Senate by unanimous consent on January 29th.
02.14.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher Sullivan of Canton for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Christopher, the son of Christopher and Donna Sullivan, is a senior at Canton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Christopher was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Christopher are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy. Christopher stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Christopher and Donna. The Sullivan family, Canton and the entire state should be proud of Christopher in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.14.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Olivia O’Hara for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. Olivia, the daughter of Stephen and Alison O’Hara, is a senior at Walpole High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Olivia was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Walpole High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Olivia are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Olivia was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. Olivia stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Stephen and Alison. The O’Hara family, Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Olivia in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.14.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Stephen O’Brien for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Stephen, the son of Holly, is a senior at Boston Collegiate Charter School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Stephen was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Collegiate Charter School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Stephen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison to the U.S. Service Academies, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Stephen was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Stephen stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his mother, Holly. The O’Brien family, Quincy and the entire state should be proud of Stephen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.10.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, the top Democrat on the Federal Workforce Subcommittee, today introduced comprehensive legislation to reform the security clearance process by which the federal government determines whether an individual is eligible to access classified national security information. The Security Clearance Reform Act of 2014 (H.R. 4022) will better ensure that the security clearance process is defined by an efficient and high quality background check system, continuous federal oversight of issued security clearances, and maximum information-sharing between federal agencies and state and local law enforcement. H.R. 4022 is cosponsored by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight Committee. The tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard in September of 2013 and other recent events involving government security clearances have again highlighted the need to implement comprehensive security clearance reform. As reported by the Washington Post, Navy Yard shooter Aaron Alexis applied for a security clearance in 2007 after enlisting as a full-time reservist in the U.S. Navy but without disclosing a 2004 arrest in Seattle, Washington, on a firearms-related offense. While USIS, the federal contractor responsible for performing Alexis’s background check, discovered this prior charge, Navy officials have stated that the precise nature of the Seattle arrest was not included in Alexis’s investigative file. Importantly, the background investigator was unable to obtain a copy of the police report from the Seattle Police Department and information available on the courts database did not include details of the arrest. As a result, Alexis was granted a security clearance in 2008. Despite additional arrests in Georgia and Texas in 2010, Alexis retained his security clearance following his discharge from the Navy in 2011 and worked as a defense contractor at military installations, including the Washington Navy Yard. “The federal government's current background investigation process does not pick up events that arise in the interim period between a cleared individual's initial investigation and periodic reinvestigation, which in Alexis’s case would not have occurred until 2017,” said Congressman Lynch. “A review of the Aaron Alexis case reveals significant lapses in our security clearance process, including a deficiency in the ability to get criminal history information from state and local jurisdictions and a lack of continuous evaluation of security clearances that have already been issued,” said Congressman Lynch. “H.R. 4022 would implement a continuous evaluation and monitoring system across the federal government so that we can immediately identify and address significant red flags that arise in a security clearance holder’s background.” Most recently, the Department of Justice filed a breach of contract and false claims complaint against USIS, which handles almost 50% of background check investigations that the Office of Personnel Management assigns to contractors. According to the complaint, “beginning in at least March 2008 and continuing through at least September 2012, USIS management devised and executed a scheme to deliberately circumvent contractually required quality reviews of completed background investigations in order to increase the company’s revenues and profits.” In particular, the Department of Justice alleges that then-USIS senior management directed and engaged in the practice of “dumping” or “flushing” of cases which were released to the Office of Personnel Management without the quality review required by its federal government contract. While falsely representing that the company had performed these reviews, USIS allegedly “dumped” or “flushed” at least 665,000 background investigations which constituted 40% of the total number of investigations conducted by the company during this 4-1/2 year period. “In light of these allegations regarding extended waste, fraud, and abuse in security clearance contracting, it is imperative that we bring key background investigative work back into the federal government,” said Congressman Lynch. “My legislation will ensure that federal employees, rather than outside contractors, perform critical investigative functions, including Top Secret Clearance level investigations.” In particular, the Security Clearance Reform Act of 2014 would require the President, within 6 months of enactment, to submit a strategic plan to Congress to improve security clearance and background investigation activities conducted by the federal government. Specifically, the plan must include the development of a continuous evaluation and monitoring system through which government agencies may access and receive real-time updates of critical information, including arrest records, currency transactions, and terrorist and criminal watch list reports, relevant to security clearance background investigations. In addition, the plan must contain guidance on improving information-sharing by state and local agencies with the federal government as well as proposed methods for streamlining and eliminating outdated manual investigative processes in favor of electronic and accessible investigative databases. Moreover, the plan must require the in-sourcing of key background investigative functions in order to ensure that only federal employees, rather than outside contractors, are conducting quality reviews of Top Secret-level investigations and subject interviews. H.R. 4022 would require implementation of this strategic plan within 1 year of its submission to Congress. As Ranking Member of the Federal Workforce Subcommittee, Congressman Lynch will also participate in a hearing held by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee entitled “DC Navy Yard Shooting: Fixing the Security Clearance Process.” The hearing is scheduled for February 11th at 10:00am in room 2154 of the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, D.C.
02.07.2014	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the U.S. Postal Service, released the following statement today on the U.S. Postal Service’s Quarterly Financial Report: “The quarterly financial report released by the U.S. Postal Service today again highlights the need for Congress to enact meaningful postal reform. With a USPS net loss of $354 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 and a fourth consecutive default on its annual retiree health benefits payment on the horizon, the Postal Service is still facing serious financial challenges that can only be addressed through bipartisan Congressional action. To this end, I continue to urge the House Leadership to take up commonsense postal reform legislation, including H.R. 961, the United States Postal Service Stabilization Act. My legislation would enhance the finance stability of the Postal Service without compromising mail delivery standards, outsourcing postal operations, or unfairly burdening our dedicated postal workforce. H.R. 961 has also been cosponsored by over 160 Members of Congress, including 10 Republicans.”
02.07.2014	Mayor Thomas P. Koch and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch invite Quincy residents to attend a community meeting on Thursday, February 13th at the Central Middle School. Mayor Koch will present an update on the City of Quincy’s efforts to appeal its flood maps, and Congressman Lynch will provide an update on efforts in Washington, D.C., to reverse the unintended consequences of the Biggert-Waters Act of 2012 and to reform FEMA’s flawed flood mapping process. WHO: Mayor Thomas P. Koch & Congressman Stephen F. Lynch WHAT: Community Meeting on Flood Insurance & Quincy Flood Maps WHEN: Thursday, February 13th TIME: 7:00pm – 8:00pm WHERE: Central Middle School Auditorium 875 Hancock Street Quincy, MA 02170
02.03.2014	I am very pleased to hear that FEMA announced today that they will postpone implementation of the flood maps in Plymouth County until at least 2015. I represent the Towns of Scituate, Hull, Hingham, Abington, Whitman, Bridgewater, West Bridgewater, East Bridgewater, and the City of Brockton, which are all located in Plymouth County. I met with many residents from these towns who expressed concerns over the new FEMA flood maps and the dramatic flood insurance premium increases mandated under the Biggert-Waters law. This delay will provide much needed time to ensure that all of the appeals and concerns by residents and towns in the county are heard by FEMA. However, it is important to remember that the communities of Cohasset, Weymouth, Quincy and Braintree and many other homeowners across other areas of my district and across the entire Commonwealth may be negatively impacted by FEMA’s flawed implementation of the National Flood Insurance Program. If flawed mapping techniques and methods were used during the process of remapping the flood zones, we need to ensure that all affected areas have access to the most accurate scientific data available. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate from across the nation, including members of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation, to address these concerns. I will continue to work with these colleagues and all Members of Congress to find a solution to this problem.
01.31.2014	Washington, DC – On Wednesday evening, the United States Senate unanimously passed legislation sponsored by Chairman Blake Farenthold (R-TX) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce to better ensure that security clearance investigations will be subject to meaningful federal oversight. Regarding Senate passage of H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act (Office of Personnel Management Inspector General Act), Congressman Lynch stated: “I am thrilled to hear that my colleagues in the Senate have passed H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act. The tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard involving Aaron Alexis again made clear that it is imperative for the federal government to conduct rigorous oversight of agency background check investigations. Towards this end, the OPM IG Act will provide critical resources to allow the federal government to audit and investigate key background check programs including the Federal Investigative Service, which performs over 90% of background investigations for federal agencies. This bill is important for our national security and I am pleased that it is now headed to President Obama’s desk for his signature. I would like to thank Chairman Farenthold for working together with me on this issue, and Chairman Darryl Issa and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings for their support of this important legislation.” The Farenthold-Lynch bill also passed the House of Representatives on January 14th by a vote of 418-0.
01.31.2014	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the United States Senate passed bipartisan legislation aimed at fixing the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Congressman Lynch released the following statement in response to its passage: “I am encouraged by the passage of the Senate version of legislation that would delay increases in flood insurance premiums until the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) puts in place a plan to ensure they are implemented in an affordable manner. This is an important step towards ensuring that American homeowners receive much needed relief in the face of skyrocketing insurance premium rates. There still remains work to be done. Homeowners, including many in my district, will not see real relief unless the House of Representatives now takes action. Two of the most important provisions in Biggert-Waters required that FEMA use the best available technology to accurately determine flood hazard areas and, secondly, to conduct an affordability study to ensure that any remapping process would be manageable for impacted homeowners. Inexplicably, FEMA has ignored both of those provisions. They instead have instituted inaccurate flood maps and have no plans to complete the affordability study even as they implement unaffordable rates. It was not what Congress intended. That is why I support the companion version of this bill in the House, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, which has 181 co-sponsors including 55 Republicans. I join with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in urging House leadership to take action immediately.”
01.30.2014	“I support Attorney General Eric Holder’s decision to seek the death penalty in the case of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Capital punishment should be reserved for extreme cases - sought only as punishment for the most heinous and evil of crimes. Given the circumstances in the Boston Marathon bombings - a premeditated terrorist attack on innocent victims on American soil - I believe that this most extreme punishment should be available to the jury. We remain a nation of laws. And I believe that Attorney General Holder has correctly applied the law to the particularly heinous, depraved and premeditated attacks against defenseless victims. Four innocent lives were lost in these events, and many hundreds of others were changed forever. I hope that in time we will dwell less on the fate of one twisted and hate-filled individual and more on the memory of the remarkable loved ones who we lost, the courage of the survivors and the heroism of all those who courageously responded to this attack."
01.30.2014	Today marks the Fifth Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which was officially signed into law by President Obama on January 29, 2009. The Lilly Ledbetter Act restored important and necessary protections against pay discrimination for women and other workers. It was an important step towards ensuring that all workers, regardless of gender, receive equal pay for equal work. However, we still face challenges as a nation in eliminating pay discrimination. Increasingly, more women are becoming the primary breadwinners in American households. Women are contributing to our economy in a variety of ways as small business owners, educators, business professionals, and caregivers among many other things. Yet, on average, a woman still only earns 77 cents for every dollar that a man earns. We must continue to fight to ensure that we close the income gap between genders, and that women are treated equally and with fairness in the workplace. It is critical for American families and for the health of our economy. That is why I am a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 377, the Paycheck Fairness Act, which will further address the current income disparities between men and women in the workplace. I am hopeful that we will come to an agreement in Congress on this issue, and remain committed to fighting hard for working women and for all working families across my district and across the nation.
01.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) issued the following statement in response to the President’s address on electronic surveillance reform: “As the sponsor of H.R. 2849, the Privacy Advocate General Act, in the House of Representatives, I am encouraged by the President’s call for a panel of outside advocates to provide an independent voice in significant cases before the United States Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Court (FISA Court). It is an important first step in reforming FISA Court operations. However, I strongly believe that the establishment of a Privacy Advocate General to present adversarial legal and constitutional arguments to the government’s request for electronic surveillance in FISA Court will better ensure that the Court hears both sides of an issue before issuing decisions that will significantly impact Americans’ privacy and civil liberties. This is a proposal that was also endorsed by the President’s independent expert review panel. In addition, I am pleased that the President will seek new limitations on telephone surveillance conducted by the National Security Agency (NSA). I have also sponsored H.R. 2864, the Telephone Surveillance Accountability Act, which requires the government to obtain judicial approval prior to searching for specific domestic phone records. The NSA should not serve as both the sole custodian of massive telephone data and the sole arbiter as to when and to what extent that data may be queried. Moreover, I commend the President on his decision to declassify over 40 FISA Court orders and opinions and hope that we will continue to shift towards meaningful transparency in electronic surveillance requests. It is now imperative that Congress and the Administration work together in order to implement these and other critical electronic surveillance reforms to achieve a fairer balance between our critical interests in national security, individual privacy, and due process of law.”
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2860, the OPM IG Act (Office of Personnel Management Inspector General Act), by a vote of 418-0. This bipartisan legislation, sponsored by Chairman Blake Farenthold (R-TX) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, will better ensure that security clearance investigations will be subject to meaningful federal oversight. In particular, H.R. 2860 will authorize the OPM Inspector General to access a portion of the OPM budget, known as the Revolving Fund, in order to audit, investigate, and conduct oversight of federal agencies. Chief among the programs funded by the OPM Revolving Fund is the Federal Investigative Services, through which OPM conducts background investigations for over 100 federal agencies in order to determine whether an individual is suitable for civilian, military, and contract employment and eligible for the issuance of a security clearance for access to classified information. The Federal Investigative Services is currently OPM’s largest Revolving Fund program, generating more than 50% of the agency’s Revolving Fund revenue per year, and conducts over 90% of all background investigations for federal agencies. “Recent events involving Aaron Alexis and the tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard have called attention to the need for Congress to examine and improve the federal government’s background investigations and security clearance process. By providing the OPM Inspector General with the resources necessary to conduct rigorous oversight of OPM programs, including the Federal Investigative Services, that are critical to our national security, H.R. 2860 will be a key component of our reform efforts,” said Lynch. Inspector General, Patrick McFarland, previously testified before the Subcommittee that his office has been unable to conduct proper oversight of these activities. As a result, Inspector General McFarland has reported that during Fiscal Year 2013, his office conducted oversight of OPM’s estimated $2 billion Revolving Fund activities with a budget of less than $3 million. “Due to the limited resources at his disposal to conduct oversight of Revolving Fund programs, the OPM Inspector General has been hamstrung in investigating high-risk areas, including falsification and lack of quality control during federal background check investigations,” said Lynch. “H.R. 2860 will serve to better mitigate the national security risks associated with the current background investigations process."
01.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) issued the following statement reacting to yesterday's introduction of legislation by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus and House Ways & Means Committee Chairman David Camp to limit Congressional consideration of secret trade agreements negotiated by the Executive Branch: "The Baucus-Camp 'fast-track' bill falls significantly short of promoting America's economic interests. It does nothing to strengthen U.S. manufacturing and this legislation will make it easier to outsource good-paying American jobs to low wage countries overseas. It does nothing to promote transparency in negotiating trade agreements, which are now negotiated totally in secret. And it continues the practice of excluding Congress from U.S. trade negotiations, a responsibility explicitly delegated to Congress by the United States Constitution. Over the past few decades, American working families have been devastated by the negative consequences of bad trade deals. By moving forward with the same failed policies, we are missing an important opportunity to reinvigorate American trade policy in a truly bipartisan way. That is why I must oppose this bill."
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Last night, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch and Republican Congressman Walter B. Jones of North Carolina jointly introduced a bipartisan House Resolution, H. Res. 428, designed to shed additional light on continuing questions about the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. This House Resolution urges the President to declassify 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001. This portion has remained classified since the Inquiry’s findings were first released in December 2002. Congressman Lynch recently had the opportunity to review the 28 pages and believes they should be made public. “Twelve years after the horrific September 11 attacks, unanswered questions still remain. These pages contain information that is vital to a full understanding of the events and circumstances surrounding this tragedy. The families of the victims and the American people deserve better; they deserve answers, they deserve a full accounting, and that has not happened yet.” “I am very pleased to be working with my friend and colleague Congressman Jones to ensure these pages see the light of day. I strongly encourage my colleagues to review this classified section of the Inquiry, and to work with me and Congressman Jones to get it declassified.”
11.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in expressing concern regarding the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s recent decision to approve the high-dose narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER. Importantly, the letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius highlighted the group’s apprehension over the high likelihood for abuse and the inherent risks for the public that are created by allowing access to this drug. Lynch said, “This approval is extremely troubling and runs counter to recent, positive FDA announcements relative to the regulation of opioids. We support the FDA efforts to reclassify hydrocodone combination products such as Lortab and Vicodin to a more restrictive Schedule II drug and the updated labeling requirements for all extended release/long acting (ER/LA) opioid analgesics, but view this approval of Zohydro ER as a giant step backward.” Lynch emphasized the effect that prescription drug abuse has had on our country, adding, “Substance abuse is exacting a toll on America. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that there were 38,329 drug overdose deaths nationwide in 2010 and that prescription drugs were involved in nearly 60 percent of those deaths. The report also details that, consistent with previous years, opioid drugs, which include OxyContin and Vicodin, contributed to 3 out of 4 medication overdose deaths. In addition the National Institutes of Drug Abuse estimates the total overall cost of substance abuse in the United States, including lost productivity and health and crime-related costs, exceeds $600 billion annually. On many levels we simply cannot afford to move yet another highly addictive opioid into the mainstream and potentially onto Main Street.” Full text of the letter can be found here. Co-signers of the letter: Harold Rogers (R-KY), Nick R. Rahall (D-WV), William R. Keating (D-MA), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), John F. Tierney (D-MA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), and James P. McGovern (D-MA).
11.22.2013	This year marks the 50th anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, a tragedy for our nation. Today, we remember and honor his hard work. We continue to be inspired by his positive attitude, by his sense that if Americans put their minds and backs into something, that it could be done, no matter the degree of difficulty. His optimism was contagious; he believed that America’s best days were ahead, and that the United States should be a leader among the nations of the world. He set lofty national goals - from space exploration to conquering hunger and racial inequality here at home. JFK challenged Americans to be great. And as Americans, we still strive to meet his highest expectations. This is perhaps his greatest legacy.
11.21.2013	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service, and the Census, led a group of 40 Members of Congress urging congressional budget negotiators to ensure that federal employees will not be subject to additional reductions in pay and benefits in a future budget agreement. Importantly, the letter to House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray and Ranking Member Jeff Sessions highlighted the many sacrifices that middle income federal workers have already made in order to address the budget deficit and underscored that the negotiators must consider these sacrifices as they continue budget talks. “Over the past three years, our hardworking federal workers have suffered through relentless attacks on their pay and benefits and have contributed more than their fair share towards helping reduce the federal budget deficit,” said Lynch. “They have endured a three-year pay freeze reducing their pay by nearly $100 billion over 10 years, a drastic reduction in retirement benefits for new hires, and sequester-imposed furloughs.” Lynch called on the negotiators to take federal workers’ pay and benefits off the table during budget negotiations, adding, “The budget should not be about cutting the pay and retirement and healthcare benefits of middle-income workers. We urge the Budget Conferees instead to find common ground based on creating jobs and investing in our nation’s education, research, and infrastructure for the benefit of all Americans.” Full text of the letter can be found here.Co-signers of the letter: Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, Gerald E. Connolly, Eleanor Holmes Norton, James P. Moran, Donna F. Edwards, Peter DeFazio, Sheila Jackson Lee, Earl Blumenauer, James P. McGovern, Barbara J. Lee, Marcia L. Fudge, Cheri Bustos, Carol Shea-Porter, Charles B. Rangel, John K. Delaney, Alcee L. Hastings, John Conyers, Jr., Juan Vargas, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Michael E. Capuano, Derek Kilmer, Madeleine Z. Bordallo, Chellie Pingree, Peter Welch, Louise M. Slaughter, Mark Pocan, Alan Grayson, Donald Payne, Jr., Elizabeth H. Esty, Keith Ellison, Luis V. Gutierrez, Eric Swalwell, David N. Cicilline, John F. Tierney, Dan Kildee, Alan Lowenthal, José E. Serrano, William R. Keating, Gregory W. Meeks, and Matt Cartwright.
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a senior member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, recently returned from a bipartisan Congressional delegation to Libya and the Sinai region of Egypt. Lynch was joined by Subcommittee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) and Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY). The focus of the mission to Libya was to review the security issues that were exposed during the September 11, 2012 attacks on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi in which Ambassador Christopher Stevens, former Navy Seal, Glen Doherty, State Department officer Sean Smith, and former Navy Seal Tyrone Woods were killed when their compound was attacked and overrun by armed insurgents. Over the weekend, the group met with Libyan Deputy Prime Minister Sadiq Abdulkarim Abdulrahman and U.S. Ambassador to Libya Deborah K. Jones to discuss local and regional developments. The delegation also conducted a site visit of the U.S. Embassy compound in Tripoli to examine the ongoing construction of security improvements. "I am certainly encouraged by the extensive security measures that our State Department has taken to fortify our Embassy in Tripoli. I think it demonstrates a renewed effort to protect our diplomatic personnel and support staff," said Congressman Lynch, who added: "Of course I am ever mindful of the tragic circumstances that have brought us to take these measures and the brave Americans who perished. I can't forget that, not for a moment. So for me, it is with a grim sense of regret that these steps were not taken sooner but also it is with a commitment to and respect for the memory of those valiant American patriots that we are determined to get this right." The delegation was unable to return to the Benghazi compound where the attacks occurred because the mission has been closed and the area is now controlled by various heavily-armed militias. "The fact that for security reasons we have been denied permission to go out and visit the Benghazi compound and that it has been abandoned is a strong indicator of the instability in that area" said Lynch. In Egypt, the delegation traveled to the Sinai Peninsula to assess counter-terrorism operations conducted by the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO), consisting of 13 member nations including the United States. The Sinai region, which abuts Israel and Gaza in the north, has witnessed increased militant attacks including multiple car bombs and a complex insurgent attack that killed 25 Egyptian police in August of 2013. Several of those militant groups claim affiliation with Al Qaeda. Congressman Lynch also met with Ambassador David M. Satterfield, who will soon return to his position as Director General of the MFO, and was able to meet a group of Massachusetts soldiers from Dorchester, Newton, North Attleboro, and Randolph who are currently among several hundred soldiers serving in the Sinai. "Our troops and the multinational forces are performing a critical peacekeeping function on the Sinai Peninsula," said Congressman Lynch. "Hopefully, our counter-terrorism efforts will eventually allow a civilian democratically-elected government to emerge to fulfill the aspirations of the Egyptian people" Lynch said.
11.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—On October 29, 2013, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch joined a bipartisan coalition of more than 80 Members of Congress in both the House and Senate in introducing a bill to delay the flood insurance premium increases harming coastal communities in Massachusetts. The bill would delay the premium increases triggered by the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 for 4 years and direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to complete an affordability study in the meantime. “Since homeowners in my district began hearing about the dramatic rate increases mandated under the Biggert-Waters law, they have reached out to me hoping that Congress would step in and fix this problem,” Lynch said. “I attended overflow meetings in Marshfield and Scituate where residents expressed frustration and anger over FEMA’s arbitrary implementation process, flawed mapping techniques, and unaffordable premium increases. After returning to Washington I heard similar stories from my colleagues and quickly committed to working with Senators Warren and Markey, and Congressmen Keating, Tierney, Tsongas and Capuano to address these concerns, which were shared by homeowners across the country.” Lynch cautioned "this legislation does not fix all the problems with the National Flood Insurance Program. Notably, the current grace period does not apply to second homes or to small businesses and there remains work to be done to improve map accuracy and the appeals process. But today’s bill is a significant first step that will provide major relief to thousands of homeowners in Massachusetts so I am willing to support it while we work to add language to cover the gaps in how the law is applied." The legislation was spearheaded by Representatives Maxine Waters (D-CA), Michael Grimm (R-NY), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), and Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ). A companion bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). Specifically, the legislation will accomplish the following: Imposes a delay likely to total four years for the most vulnerable properties, by delaying implementation of rate increases until two years after FEMA completes an affordability study, which was mandated in Biggert-Waters but not undertaken. FEMA has estimated it will take 2 years to complete the affordability study. It would then take up to an additional 2 years for FEMA to submit an affordability framework to Congress and for Congress to review the framework. This means rate increases would be delayed for 4 years in total. The delay applies to: primary, non-repetitive loss residences that are currently grandfathered; all properties sold after July 6, 2012; and all properties that purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012. Requires FEMA to propose an affordability framework that addresses the identified affordability issues within 18 months after the completion of the study and provides 6 months for Congressional review. Allows FEMA to utilize National Flood Insurance Funds to reimburse policyholders who successfully appeal a map determination. Eliminates the 50 percent cap on state and local contributions to levee construction and reconstruction. Protects the so-called “basement exception,” which allows the lowest proofed opening in a home to be used for determining flood insurance rates. Establishes a Flood Insurance Rate Map Advocate within FEMA to answer current and prospective policyholder questions about the flood mapping process. Requires FEMA to certify that the agency has fully adopted a modernized risk-based approach to analyzing flood risk. Original Cosponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Michael Grimm (R-NY); Maxine Waters (D-CA); Cedric Richmond (D-LA); Pete Olson (R-TX); Steven Palazzo (R-MS); Patrick Murphy (D-FL); Bill Cassidy (R-LA); Doris Matsui (D-CA); Kevin Cramer (R-ND); William Keating (D-MA); Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL);Corrine Brown (D-FL); Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX); Gregory Meeks (D-NY); Mike McIntyre (D-NC); Jerrold Nadler (D-NY); Richard Nugent (R-FL); Bobby Scott (D-VA); Jim Langevin (D-RI); Joseph Crowley (D-NY); Gwen Moore (D-WI); Glenn Thompson (R-PA); Walter Jones (R- NC); Peter Welch (D- VT); William Enyart (D- IL); Frank LoBiondo (R- NJ); Stephen Lynch (D-MA); John Carney (D-DE); John Culberson (R-TX); Kathy Castor (D-FL); Joe Garcia (D-FL); Lois Frankel (D-FL); Nydia Velazquez (D-NY); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL); Peter King (R-NY); Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ); Carolyn Maloney (D-NY); Frederica Wilson (D-FL); Filemon Vela; (D- TX); Rodney Davis (R-IL); John Tierney (D-MA); Ed Perlmutter (D – CO); Keith Ellison (D-MN); Ted Deutch (D-FL); Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY); Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL); Jerry McNerney (D-CA); Charles Boustany (R-LA); William Lacy Clay (D-MO); Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO); Steve Scalise (R –LA); Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY); John Garamendi (D-CA); Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX); Vern Buchanan (R-FL); Robert Andrews (D-NJ); Niki Tsongas (D-MA); Chellie Pingree (D-ME) and Renee Ellmers (R-NC). # # #
11.12.2013	On October 29, 2013, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch’s legislation, H.R. 2185, The “Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act,” passed on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives as part of H.R. 2189. H.R. 2189, introduced by Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller, establishes a commission to examine the current disability claims backlog at the Veterans Affairs Administration. The bill passed by a vote of 404-1. The “Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act” calls for two minutes of silence every Veterans Day to recognize and reflect on the service and sacrifices of all veterans, past and present. Its set time of 2:11 EST allows for all 50 states and Puerto Rico to take part. “We owe these brave men and women so much. They put their lives on the line every day for us and for our country. This moment of silence is a way for all Americans to come together, regardless of ideology, and give our veterans the thanks they deserve,” said Congressman Lynch. The “Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act” was the inspiration of the Bendetson family: Daniel, Michael, and their father, Dr. Peter Bendetson, of Weston, Massachusetts. “It was my privilege to bring forth this bill on behalf of the Bendetsons,” said Congressman Lynch. “Taking time to give thanks to our brave military is something we can all agree on. I am grateful to Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Michael Michaud for incorporating my bill into H.R. 2189 and am pleased that it has passed.”
10.16.2013	“H.R. 2775 immediately ends the 16-day government shutdown that has already cost our economy $24 billion and removes the threat of a catastrophic default that could push our country back into recession. While the bill is not perfect, it moves us past this disgraceful standoff and allows us to get back to the business of governing, which is what our constituents sent us here to do. Going forward, I hope the spirit of cooperation we showed tonight will help us come together on a federal budget that reduces the deficit and grows our economy without resorting to extreme tactics that do serious harm to the American people.”
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC –All 20 of New England’s Representatives in the U.S. House sent a letter to Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, expressing their concern that proposed funding changes to clean air programs would have a negative impact on the region. “Given New England’s long established history of working to provide its citizens with clean air and a healthy environment, we are concerned that the proposed changes would undermine these accomplishments,” the letter reads. In June, the EPA announced changes to the way the agency plans to distribute air quality funds. These revisions would reduce New England’s funding in order to send money to other regions that have not done as much to improve air quality. If fully implemented, these changes could decrease New England’s funding by 30%-40%, forcing state governments to make up the difference. In addition, other proposed changes would require more matching funds from states to support programs aimed at monitoring air quality. This would create a substantial burden on New England and could cripple the monitoring programs these states use to keep their air clean. “We strongly encourage you to ensure that the air quality programs in New England are at least level funded by the EPA through FY 2014,” the delegation wrote. The letter was organized by Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter and was signed by Representatives Capuano, Cicilline, Courtney, DeLauro, Esty, Himes, Keating, Kennedy III, Kuster, Langevin, Larson, Lynch, McGovern, Michaud, Neal, Pingree, Shea-Porter, Tierney, Tsongas, and Welch. Full text of the letter can be found below. +++ September 17, 2013 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write to you today because it has been brought to our attention that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is planning to implement a new funding formula for federal air quality programs that may have a significant negative impact on programs in New England. Given New England’s long established history of working to provide its citizens with clean air and a healthy environment, we are concerned that the proposed changes would undermine these accomplishments while sending more money to regions that have a track record of neglecting these critical issues. In the Fiscal Year 2014 National Program Managers Guidance, the EPA has announced two changes to the distribution of air quality funds that would have a significant impact on New England’s air quality programs. The first proposal would revise the Section 105 allocation formula for the distribution of state/local air grant funds. The proposed revisions would reduce the funding that would go to New England in order to provide funding for other regions that have not done as much to improve air quality. These changes would reduce funding going to New England by 30%-40% once fully implemented. The second significant change is that the EPA would transition air monitoring funds into Section 105 from Section 103, which would then require matching funds from the state. This would create a substantial burden on the New England states and other states that rely on these funds for monitoring programs. We urge you to postpone any significant changes to the Section 105 allocation formula until it has received adequate funding so that no region would see a drastic reduction from its prior year allocation. New England has been a national leader in air quality programs, taking the lead on issues like reducing mercury emissions, encouraging diesel retrofits for construction equipment and buses, creating cleaner woodstoves, and encouraging research into advancing the science of transported air pollution and climate change. EPA’s proposed plans would reduce critical funding to support these efforts while transferring funds to regions that have not demonstrated a similar dedication to improving air quality. We strongly encourage you to ensure that the air quality programs in New England are at least level funded by the EPA through FY 2014. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
08.23.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) wrote to U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder recently urging him to increase accountability and transparency in the use of FBI confidential informants by strengthening The Attorney General's Guidelines Regarding the Use of FBI Confidential Human Sources. In particular, Congressman Lynch requested that the Attorney General revise the guidelines to require the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to report to Congress on the specific crimes committed by its confidential informants. "The FBI routinely authorizes its confidential informants to engage in so-called ‘otherwise illegal activity’ without full disclosure to Congress as to the nature and extent of these crimes," said Congressman Lynch. "By revising the current guidelines governing the use of FBI confidential informants to require the FBI to report to Congress on the specific crimes committed by its human sources, the Attorney General would take a significant step towards ensuring greater accountability, transparency, and safety regarding the administration of Department of Justice confidential informant programs." Lynch, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, has continually supported enhanced accountability and transparency in the use of government confidential informants. In the 113th Congress, he has introduced H.R. 265, the Confidential Informant Accountability Act of 2013, legislation that would require all federal law enforcement agencies to report to Congress all serious crimes committed by their confidential human sources. In addition, Lynch has consistently called for the Oversight Committee to conduct hearings regarding the use of confidential informants by the Department of Justice and specifically, the FBI. In the 112th Congress, Lynch, with the support of the Oversight Committee and Senator Charles E. Grassley, led a more than yearlong investigation to examine the relationship between the FBI Boston Division and an individual known as Mark Rossetti. Importantly, the investigation facilitated an internal review of the FBI’s Rossetti case files by an FBI Inspection team deployed to Boston in 2011 and confirmation of Rossetti’s previous status as a longtime FBI confidential informant. The full text of the letter from Congressman Lynch to Attorney General Holder can be found here.
08.09.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently expressed serious concern with the recent actions of the Russian Parliament to prohibit gay “propaganda,” particularly as Russia prepares to host the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Sochi. In a letter to Secretary of State John F. Kerry, Lynch echoed the concerns of a group of 88 lawmakers, led by Representative Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), regarding the protection of LGBT individuals associated with the 2014 Winter Games. “I do not believe that there is any place in today’s society for government-sanctioned discrimination and prejudice against any one particular group,” Lynch wrote Secretary Kerry. “I respectfully urge that you take steps to ensure all athletes and individuals associated with the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games will be treated with the dignity and respect they deserve, especially those who identify as LGBT.” The Full Text of the Letter is Below: August 8, 2013 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520-0099 Dear Secretary Kerry: As 88 of my colleagues in the House expressed to you last week, I too am extremely concerned with the recent actions of the Russian Parliament that prohibit the “propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations.” This legislation directly threatens the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community and is antithetical to the values of the United States that every person, regardless of their race, sexual orientation, or creed, should be treated equally. As the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Sochi, Russia, I join my colleagues in requesting information about “what diplomatic measures the State Department is planning to take to ensure that LGBT athletes, staff and spectators, and their supporters, are not arrested, detained or otherwise penalized during the Sochi Games.” As the Boston Globe mentioned today regarding the Russian policy, anyone promoting gay “propaganda” around minors can be put in jail and fined, and foreigners can be deported. In addition, this law is so broadly written that the simple act of hand-holding by same-sex couples is also punishable. This legislation could potentially endanger LGBT Olympians not only from Russia, but also from the US and around the world. The Olympic Games are meant to be a celebration of the athletes and we should be focused on their performances, not their sexual orientation. Unfortunately, this type of discrimination against the LGBT community has become a pattern in Russia, with the aforementioned law being only the most recent example. Within the past year, Russia has also passed a law banning the adoption of Russian-born children by gay couples, as well as any couple or single parent who resides in a country that recognizes marriage equality. This type of discrimination cannot and should not be tolerated. According to CNN, Russian politician Igor Anaskikh, who is the Deputy Chairman of the Parliament's Physical Culture, Sport and Youth Policy Committee, said, “The Olympic Games is a major international event. We need to be as polite and tolerant as possible. That is why a decision has been made not to raise this issue during the Olympics.” Even if this is the case, we cannot condone the actions of the Russian government. I do not believe that there is any place in today’s society for government-sanctioned discrimination and prejudice against any one particular group. This is a principle that every nation should abide by and I urge you to take these concerns directly to the Russian government. With the Sochi Games six months away, the urgency of this matter should not be understated. I respectfully urge that you take steps to ensure all athletes and individuals associated with the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games will be treated with the dignity and respect they deserve, especially those who identify as LGBT. I look forward to hearing back from you and pledge whatever assistance I can in working towards this important goal. Sincerely Stephen F. Lynch, MC Downloads » 8-8-13 - Lynch Ltr to Sec Kerry re Sochi Olympics-LGBT laws.pdf
07.30.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today introduced H.R. 2849, the Privacy Advocate General Act of 2013. Importantly, this legislation would establish an independent Office of the Privacy Advocate General responsible for representing our national interest in safeguarding personal privacy and constitutional protections by presenting adversarial arguments in the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, otherwise known as the FISA Court. Through the introduction of an adversarial component to a FISA Court system that currently lacks this defining feature of the American legal system, H.R. 2849 would add greater accountability in the judicial review of electronic surveillance requests made by the Federal Government without compromising our paramount commitment to national security. As underscored in “The Federal Court System in the United States,” an introductory manual on the American judicial system prepared by the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts for judges in other countries, our judicial process is an adversarial one that serves the purpose of allowing our judges the best opportunity to make a decision based on the full presentation of facts and arguments relating to both sides of an issue. In particular, “[a]ccording to the American legal tradition, inherited from the English common law, the clash of adversaries before the court is thought most likely to allow the judge or jury to determine the truth and resolve the dispute.” Moreover, the “essential role” of the American judge is “to structure and regulate the development of issues by the adversaries and to make sure that the law is followed and that fairness is achieved.” Regrettably, this fundamental adversarial element of the American judicial system is not a feature of the FISA Court system. Instead, the federal court with primary jurisdiction over requests made by the Federal Government to conduct electronic surveillance under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 is not afforded the necessary opportunity to consider the adversarial presentation of arguments and as a result, only hears from one party, the Federal Government, during its deliberations. As recently noted by former federal district court judge James Robertson, who also served on the FISA Court from 2002 to 2005, the current FISA Court framework “needs an adversary” given that “anyone who has been a judge will tell you a judge needs to hear both sides of a case.” In order to address the glaring absence of a legal adversary inside FISA Court proceedings, Congressman Lynch has introduced H.R. 2849, the Privacy Advocate General Act of 2013. “The establishment of an independent Privacy Advocate General to argue the merits of opposition in FISA Court will better ensure that critical judicial decisions that significantly impact American privacy and civil liberties are based on the effective presentation of both sides of an electronic surveillance issue,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “By making certain that the FISA Court hears adversarial legal and constitutional arguments relating to a particular surveillance application, H.R. 2849 would also further uphold our democratic tradition of due process of law.” Specifically, H.R. 2849 would amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 to establish an independent Office of the Privacy Advocate General. In the interests of ensuring independence from the executive branch, H.R. 2849 provides that the Privacy Advocate General would be selected by the judicial branch and in particular, jointly appointed for a term of 7 years by the Chief Justice of the United States and the most senior Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court appointed by a President from a differing political party. In addition, H.R. 2849 mandates that the Privacy Advocate General will serve as the opposing counsel in FISA Court proceedings and present the merits of opposition, including legal and constitutional arguments relating to the government’s request for surveillance. H.R. 2849 specifies that in the event that the FISA Court denies a government surveillance application and the government expresses an intent to appeal that decision, the FISA Court may temporarily authorize the emergency employment of electronic surveillance if the Court determines the existence of exceptional circumstances and compelling evidence indicating that such electronic surveillance is necessary. Lastly, H.R. 2849 also clarifies that the Privacy Advocate General may make a motion for the FISA Court to publish an order, decision, or opinion. University of Chicago Law School Professor Geoffrey R. Stone, who has authored several renowned books on constitutional law and written extensively on the subject of FISA Court reform, said of the Privacy Advocate General Act of 2013: "The FISA court was created in 1978 to ensure judicial oversight of national security surveillance. After thirty-five years of experience, it is clear that an important way to improve the operation of the FISA court is to introduce into the process an element of the traditional American adversarial system. By enabling official privacy advocates to present to the court reasons why it should be cautious about acceding too quickly to government demands for additional surveillance authority, this modest but essential proposal will help the court -- and the nation -- strike a more thoughtful balance between the sometimes competing interests of privacy and security." Professor Stone is the Edward H. Levi Distinguished Service Professor of Law at the University of Chicago Law School.
07.29.2013	Congressman Lynch, Councilor Linehan, Senator Forry, and Representative Collins, in collaboration with the Mayor’s Office, will host a meeting to discuss the recent tragedies in South Boston and other public safety issues affecting our community. The meeting will be held at 7pm on Monday, July 29th at the Tynan Cafeteria. The Electeds have invited officials from the Boston Police Department, State Police, the Probation Department, the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department, the Suffolk County District Attorney’s Office, and the National Drug Enforcement Agency to attend. Following a meeting at City Hall with city, state, and federal law enforcement agencies, the elected officials reflected on the upcoming public meeting: “The recent violence and tragic murder of Amy Lord have had a profound impact on South Boston. Our hearts are with Amy's family and friends in Wilbraham and we share in their grief. Monday’s meeting will allow us to listen to our community’s concerns, share information and hopefully ease some of the fear in the wake of these senseless attacks,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “We must continue to reach out to all of our neighbors. This meeting will provide an opportunity to come together as a community to connect and share important information. It is our responsibility to look out for one another,” said City Councilor Bill Linehan. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families,” stated Senator Linda Dorcena Forry. “In our earlier meeting today, my colleagues and I along with law enforcement agencies committed to proactively working together. We are focusing on open communication with the community and concentrating on creating a concrete plan of action. This meeting on Monday will be another step in that direction," said Sen. Forry. “We are all affected by the murder of Amy Lord and the series of unwarranted and hideous acts of violence in our community,” stated Representative Nick Collins. “We want the entire community at-large to know that the collective resources from every office and every department will be brought to bear to increase the public's safety and awareness.” Public Safety Meeting Monday, July 29th at 7:00pm Tynan Cafeteria, 650 E Fourth Street
07.25.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and Congressman Peter T. King (R-NY) today introduced the Explosive Materials Background Check Act. This important and bipartisan legislation would require a background check in order to purchase explosive materials and close a loophole which currently allows felons, mentally ill persons, suspected terrorists, and other dangerous individuals to have access to explosive materials without any restraints. “I’m pleased to join my colleague, Congressman King, in introducing legislation on this critical national security issue. It is imperative that we give law enforcement the necessary tools to ensure their ability to protect us from individuals looking to cause America harm,” Congressman Lynch said. “This reasonable legislation will put safeguards in place to make sure we do our best to keep explosive materials out of the hands of suspected terrorists, dangerous individuals, and others who should not have access to such materials.” “Unfortunately, recent tragic events have highlighted the need to keep explosives out of the hands of those who intend to do us harm. I’m proud to work with Congressman Lynch on this important legislation. It’s common sense,” Congressman King said. The Explosive Materials Background Check Act would make America safer by doing the following: • Requiring a background check and permit to purchase black powder, black powder substitute, and smokeless powder in any quantity. • Making it illegal to manufacture homemade explosives without a license. • Allowing the federal government the authority to stop the issuance of an explosives permit, with redress safeguards, when the applicant is a known or suspected terrorist and it is reasonably believed that the person may use the explosives in connection with terrorism. • Updating prohibited categories for explosive purchasers by including domestic violence prohibited categories currently in federal firearms background check laws. Congressman Lynch and Congressman King co-chair the Task Force on Anti-Terrorism and Proliferation Finance which examines US efforts to disrupt terrorism financing.
07.24.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 2767, the so-called Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners (PATH) Act, a Republican bill to privatize the mortgage finance market: “I am extremely disappointed that my Republican colleagues have insisted on going forward with an extreme bill that would damage our housing finance system. The PATH Act would end the affordable 30-year fixed rate mortgage as we know it, putting homeownership out of reach for many hardworking Americans. The bill turns the housing market over to the biggest Wall Street banks that fueled the housing bubble and accelerated the financial crisis, and it makes it very difficult for small banks and credit unions to provide mortgages to their communities. Every Member of the Financial Services Committee agrees that we must wind down the government mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and reform America’s housing finance system. The PATH Act is nothing more than a dangerous ideological experiment that will devastate the availability of mortgage credit to middle class homebuyers. The most disappointing aspect of today’s vote is that we are missing an opportunity to achieve consensus and do something good for the American taxpayer. There is broad bipartisan agreement among industry professionals, consumer advocates, and academics about the general framework of responsible housing finance reform, one that preserves a limited government role. We should be moving forward, as some of our colleagues in the Senate are, to craft a solution that can be supported by both Republicans and Democrats. This bill takes us in the exact opposite direction, and that is why I voted against it.”
07.24.2013	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 2767, the so-called Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners (PATH) Act, a Republican bill to privatize the mortgage finance market: “I am extremely disappointed that my Republican colleagues have insisted on going forward with an extreme bill that would damage our housing finance system. The PATH Act would end the affordable 30-year fixed rate mortgage as we know it, putting homeownership out of reach for many hardworking Americans. The bill turns the housing market over to the biggest Wall Street banks that fueled the housing bubble and accelerated the financial crisis, and it makes it very difficult for small banks and credit unions to provide mortgages to their communities. Every Member of the Financial Services Committee agrees that we must wind down the government mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and reform America’s housing finance system. The PATH Act is nothing more than a dangerous ideological experiment that will devastate the availability of mortgage credit to middle class homebuyers. The most disappointing aspect of today’s vote is that we are missing an opportunity to achieve consensus and do something good for the American taxpayer. There is broad bipartisan agreement among industry professionals, consumer advocates, and academics about the general framework of responsible housing finance reform, one that preserves a limited government role. We should be moving forward, as some of our colleagues in the Senate are, to craft a solution that can be supported by both Republicans and Democrats. This bill takes us in the exact opposite direction, and that is why I voted against it.”
07.16.2013	Congressman Lynch recently introduced H.R. 2684, the Telephone Surveillance Accountability Act of 2013. Importantly, this legislation would enhance judicial oversight over the broad collection of domestic phone records by the National Security Agency and require the Federal Bureau of Investigation to report on its searches of bulk telephone data to Congress on a monthly basis. As explained by intelligence community officials in recent public statements and congressional hearings, the “telephony metadata” (data relating to a phone call but not the content) gathered by the NSA under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act is kept in a virtual NSA “lockbox” that is only accessed under certain circumstances. According to NSA Director Keith B. Alexander, during his June 12th testimony before the Senate Committee on Appropriations, “[w]hat we create is a set of data, and we put it out here, and then only under specific times can we query that data…We won’t search that unless we have some reasonable, articulable suspicion about terrorist-related organizations.” However, while the FBI must first obtain an order from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISA Court) in order to gather domestic phone records from telecommunications providers, additional FISA Court approval is not currently required for the federal government to query, or search, that data. Per the bipartisan Congressional Research Service (NSA Surveillance Leaks: Background and Issues for Congress), a FISA Court order “is not necessary prior to searching the data already held at NSA.” Rather, certain authorized individuals at NSA may singlehandedly approve requests to search the data and unilaterally determine whether the information that forms the basis of the query meets the standard of reasonable suspicion. “At a minimum, our Constitutional protections of individual privacy and due process require that the NSA should NOT serve as both custodian of such massive data sweeps and also the sole arbiter of whether that information can be queried in a particular case,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Requiring the government to obtain additional FISA Court approval before searching for specific domestic phone records will enhance accountability to our current intelligence collection framework while balancing the fundamental interest in individual privacy for U.S. citizens.” In order to enhance accountability and transparency in the collection of domestic phone records, the Telephone Surveillance Accountability Act of 2013 would prohibit the searching of telephony metadata unless the Director of the FBI first submits an application to the FISA Court that includes a statement of facts demonstrating a reasonable and articulable suspicion that the basis of the search is material and specifically relevant to an authorized investigation. The FISA Court must then issue an order allowing the particular query. Moreover, H.R. 2684 would also increase congressional oversight in this area by requiring the Director of the FBI to submit a monthly report to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees describing each search of telephony metadata made pursuant to such FISA Court orders.
07.11.2013	The House of Representatives, in a bipartisan vote, approved an amendment sponsored by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) that would increase funding for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Construction account by $20 million. The increased funding would assist the Army Corps of Engineers with the construction and maintenance of storm reduction infrastructure, commonly known as sea walls, in order to protect coastal communities from severe storms. Lynch’s amendment, which passed by a vote of 217-206, was included in H.R. 2609, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, which will fund Department of Energy programs, the Army Corps of Engineers and other related agencies for Fiscal Year 2014. “100 year storms seem to be happening every few years now. I have seen firsthand the damage caused in the coastal areas I represent- Boston, Quincy, Weymouth, Hull, Hingham Cohasset and Scituate,” said Lynch. “As the severity and frequency of these storms increase, it is time to enable the Army Corps of Engineers to respond. We must ensure adequate funding so the Corps can help protect coastal communities from future devastation.” The Army Corps of Engineers Civil Construction account funds construction of storm reduction infrastructure, which includes sea walls. Since 2010, this account has been reduced by $688 million, with $331 million cut last year alone. Lynch's amendment’s $20 million increase would be offset by a decrease in the Fossil Energy Research and Development account. “The use of fossil fuels is at the very least partly responsible for the number and intensity of these massive storms, such as Hurricane Sandy. Yet, funding to protect our shoreline and our ports has been consistently cut. As long as we continue to rely on fossil fuels we need also to address the consequences of our energy policies. We have a responsibility to the Army Corps of Engineers and our coastal communities to provide the resources necessary to protect against these severe storms,” Lynch added.
07.10.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) led a group of 25 Representatives in calling on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to implement strong rules to protect American taxpayers from risky overseas derivatives transactions and to issue guidance on those transactions without delay. The letter urges the CFTC not to bend to pressure from large banks and derivatives dealers by further delaying guidance on how its rules will apply to U.S. banks’ overseas transactions. "We learned during the financial crisis that U.S. financial companies’ risky international derivatives trades can cost our constituents billions of dollars. AIG's London affiliate engaged in reckless behavior that nearly destroyed the company and when the bill finally came due, U.S. taxpayers picked up the tab to the tune of $182 billion,” Lynch said. “The sooner we get strong cross-border guidance in place, the sooner the promise of protecting taxpayers from another overseas bailout will be realized.” The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act gave regulators the authority to apply U.S. derivatives rules to American companies’ overseas transactions when those transactions have a “direct and significant” effect on U.S. commerce. Last year, the CFTC issued proposed guidance on overseas financial transactions but delayed the effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act’s cross-border application until that guidance could be finalized. That Exemptive Order expires July 12, 2013. “There is no reason the CFTC should not lift its Exemptive Order and go forward with its cross-border rules on July 12. After more than 2 ½ years of work and 300 comment letters from stakeholders on all sides of the issue, the CFTC is ready to implement its thoughtful, reasonable approach to the cross-border application of U.S. derivatives reforms,” the Representatives wrote to CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler and SEC Chairman Mary Jo White. “America must lead on this issue.” The full text of the letter can be found here.
06.18.2013	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Eighth Congressional District during the month of June. Below is a list of upcoming office hours. Congressman Lynch maintains three full-time District Offices in Boston, Quincy and Brockton, as well as his office in Washington, DC. Residents of the 8th District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices. If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000.Whitman- Tuesday, June 18th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Whitman Town Hall 54 South Avenue, WhitmanCanton – Wednesday, June 19th Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis 9:00-11:00 a.m. Canton Town Hall, Salah Meeting Room 801 Washington Street, CantonNorwood - Wednesday, June 19th Office Hours with Meghan Aldridge 9:00-11:00 a.m. Norwood Town Hall, Room 29 566 Washington Street, NorwoodMilton- Wednesday, June 19th Office Hours with Sarah Revell 1:00 -3:00 p.m. Milton Town Hall, Baker Room 525 Canton Avenue, MiltonWalpole - Wednesday, June 19th Office Hours with Meghan Aldridge 1:00-3:00 p.m. Walpole Town Hall, Room 116 135 School Street, WalpoleStoughton- Wednesday, June 19th Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis 12:00-2:00 p.m. Stoughton Town Hall Fitzpatrick Room, 1st Floor 10 Pearl Street, StoughtonHolbrook - Thursday, June 20th Office Hours with Dan Lynch 9:00-11:00 a.m. Holbrook Town Hall, Veterans Office 50 North Franklin Street, HolbrookSouth Boston- Thursday, June 20th Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. South Boston Community Health Center 386 West Broadway, 2nd Floor Community RoomAvon- Thursday, June 20th Office Hours with Dan Lynch 1:00-3:00 p.m. Avon Town Hall 65 East Main Street, AvonWest Bridgewater – Tuesday, June 25th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. West Bridgewater Town Hall 65 N. Main Street, West BridgewaterBridgewater- Tuesday, June 25th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 1:00-3:00 p.m. Bridgewater Public Library (Please note: the location has been changed from the Academy Building.) 15 South Street, BridgewaterDedham- Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with Meghan Aldridge 9:00-11:00 a.m. Dedham Town Hall Selectmen’s Chambers, 2nd Floor 26 Bryant Street, DedhamHull- Wednesday, June 26th Open Office Hours with John Swenson 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Hull Town Hall 253 Atlantic Avenue, HullHingham- Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with Katherine Shea 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Hingham Town Hall, Central North Meeting Room 210 Central Street, HinghamEast Bridgewater - Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 1:00-3:00 p.m. East Bridgewater Town Hall 175 Central Street, East BridgewaterWestwood- Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with Meghan Aldridge 1:00-3:00 p.m. Westwood Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 580 High Street, WestwoodScituate - Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with Katherine Shea 1:00-3:00 p.m. Scituate Town Hall, Selectmen’s Hearing Room 600 Chief Justice Cushing Highway, ScituateCohasset – Wednesday, June 26th Office Hours with John Swenson 1:00-3:00 p.m. Cohasset Town Hall 41 Highland Avenue, CohassetBraintree- Thursday, June 27th Office Hours with Bob Fowkes 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Braintree Town Hall, Cahill Auditorium 1 John F. Kennedy Memorial DriveWeymouth- Thursday, June 27th Open Office Hours with John Swenson 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Weymouth Town Hall 75 Middle Street, WeymouthRaynham- Thursday, June 27th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Raynham Town Hall 558 South Main Street, RaynhamAbington- Thursday, June 27th Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 2:00-4:00 p.m. Abington Town Hall, Meier Room 500 Gliniewicz Way, AbingtonWest Roxbury- Thursday, June 27th Office Hours with Dan Lynch 1:00-3:00 p.m. Roche Family Community Center 1716 Centre Street, West Roxbury
06.12.2013	Today, U.S. Reps. Stephen Lynch (D-Boston Bruins) and Mike Quigley (D-Chicago Blackhawks) faced off on the Capitol steps in advance of their hometown teams meeting in Game 1 of the NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs tonight at the United Center in Chicago. “Anyone who is a fan of hockey has to be looking forward to this incredible matchup between two Original Six teams,” said Rep. Quigley. “The optimist in me says Chicago takes it in five and Blackhawks fans will see the Cup raised on home ice. I’m looking forward to celebrating our win with a big bowl of Legal Sea Foods chowder and a Harpoon beer and only feel slightly bad that Mr. Lynch won’t have the chance to try Eli’s Cheesecake and Nuts on Clark. Go Hawks!” "I seem to recall that the folks from Pittsburgh had similar predictions of how they would do against our Bruins. Let me just say that I think this team has shown great character and determination in their pursuit of the Stanley Cup. They continue to make us proud. This should be a great series and I am looking forward to enjoying some Eli’s Cheesecake and Nuts on Clark during the Duck Boat parade. Go Bruins, Boston Strong,” Rep. Lynch said. The Congressman whose team wins the Stanley Cup will receive local goods from the opposing Member’s district, with Rep. Quigley putting up Eli’s Cheesecake and Nuts on Clark and Rep. Lynch offering Legal Sea Foods clam chowder and a case of Harpoon beer. Both Congressmen are members of the Congressional Hockey Caucus, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to advocating for the expansion of hockey programs in America. Rep. Quigley, a co-Chair of the Caucus, began playing hockey when he was six years old and still plays regularly when he is back home in the District. An avid Chicago Blackhawks fan, he has worked with the team to expand access to floor hockey programs to youth at the Neighborhood Boys and Girls Club in Chicago and to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community through Center on Halsted. Rep. Lynch, born and raised in South Boston, is a life-long Bruins fan. In 1999, as a state senator, Lynch sponsored legislation creating a new license plate to help raise money for youth hockey in Massachusetts. Today, the Boston Bruins "Invest in Youth Hockey" license plate has raised over $850,000 for youth hockey programs throughout the state.
06.06.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently presented Megan Selby of Stoughton with the Congressional Award Silver Medal. Megan is currently a junior at Principia Upper School in St. Louis, Missouri, and attended Stoughton High School for the ninth and tenth grades. The Silver Medal recognizes Megan’s initiative, personal accomplishment and service to her community. “Megan is an extremely talented and motivated young woman, and I commend her on this impressive achievement,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “Megan set some ambitious goals for herself, and this Silver Medal is testament to her hard-work and dedication. It is an honor to present her with the Congressional Award.” Established in 1979, the Congressional Award is Congress’ award for young Americans. The program requires participants to set and achieve personal goals in four different areas - volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. There are six levels of the award – bronze, silver and gold certificate and bronze, silver and gold medal. Working with an advisor, Megan committed more than 400 hours to completing her goals, logging over 200 hours of volunteer service including coaching basketball and flag football, and volunteering at the Blue Dog Shelter in Brockton and with the Girl Scouts of Stoughton. Megan is continuing to work toward the Gold Medal.
06.06.2013	The House of Representatives on Wednesday approved an amendment sponsored by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch that would increase funding for surface transportation security by $15.6 million. Lynch’s amendment is included in H.R. 2217, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which would fund the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2014. “In April, when two bombs were detonated at the Boston Marathon, we received a chilling reminder that our nation remains a target for terrorists and their sympathizers. The foiled plot just one week later to bomb a passenger train running between Canada and the United States demonstrated that our surface transportation systems remain at risk,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, the United States has rightfully strengthened aviation security, with $69.3 billion in funding provided since Fiscal Year 2002. However, during that same time period, surface transportation security received just $3.3 billion, less than five percent of the overall transportation security funding since 9/11. Although five times as many passengers travel by train than by air, the funding disparity for surface transportation remains. Moreover, passenger rail and buses have been targeted in major attacks throughout the world including Madrid, London, Tokyo, Israel and Mumbai, India. Congressman Lynch’s amendment would increase funding for passenger rail and bus security by $15.6 million, bringing it to the enacted FY2013 level of $124.3 million. “Millions of Americans use our buses and rails every day, yet security for surface transportation remains woefully underfunded,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “The recent events in Boston and the foiled bomb plot on a passenger train serve to show that we must not ignore the potential for a terrorist attack. I thank Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member David Price for their support of my amendment.”
05.23.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today introduced legislation that would establish a nationwide moment of silence to honor our veterans. The bipartisan bill has the support of 12 original co-sponsors: Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY- 9), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Rep. Walter B. Jones, Jr. (NC-3), Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy (MA-4), Rep. Edward J. Markey (MA-5), Rep. James P. McGovern (MA-2), Rep. Michael H. Michaud (ME- 2), Rep. Richard E. Neal (MA-1), Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-2), and Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-3). "As a nation, we have a responsibility to ensure that the sacrifice of our veterans is never forgotten. A national moment of silence will send a powerful message to these brave men and women that we appreciate all they have done for their country," Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. The Veterans Moment of Silence Act designates two minutes of silence on each Veterans Day for Americans to collectively pause and honor those who have served in our armed forces. The time of 2:11 p.m. Eastern Standard Time has been chosen to allow for all time zones in the 50 states and Puerto Rico to take part. “We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude that can never truly be repaid. But we can try. This moment of silence will speak volumes about our respect and gratitude for those who served our country in uniform. And, it will provide an example for future generations to honor the sacrifice of our veterans.”
05.23.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch released the following statement on voting in opposition to H.R. 1911: “With student loan interest rates set to double on July 1st, Congress must take action to better ensure college affordability for our students and America’s working families. Unfortunately, the Republican bill considered by the House today would actually make college much more expensive. I voted against H.R. 1911 because it would require student loans to carry fluctuating interest rates that would vary on an annual basis and lead to excessive interest payments. Incredibly, the Republican bill would actually increase student loan debt, which currently totals $1.1 trillion, by nearly $4 billion. Rather than addressing student loan debt through misguided legislation such as H.R. 1911, I fully support the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013, H.R. 1595, introduced by my colleague, Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT). Importantly, the Student Loan Relief Act would extend the current 3.4% interest rate on undergraduate loans for the next two years in order to give Congress the opportunity to create a long-term, bipartisan solution for student loan interest rates in the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965.”
05.16.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that Isabelle Xu of Westwood has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery”, in the Eighth Congressional District. The annual national art competition is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 18 young artists from across the Eighth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, collages, paintings, pencil sketchings, and other mediums. In the end, the judges selected “Tonality of an Angel” by Isabelle Xu, a freshman at Westwood High School in Westwood. Isabelle used colored pencil to depict a violin above water. The judges remarked on Isabelle’s excellent draftsmanship and well thought-out composition. Her artwork has been sent to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Isabelle Xu’s winning entry demonstrates considerable skill and talent as well as creativity,” said Congressman Lynch. “Isabelle is an extremely gifted young artist and her work reflects the superb instruction of her art teacher, Yuanan Cheng.” Lynch added, “All of this year’s submissions were excellent, and it is obvious from this competition that we have some truly talented young artists in the Eighth Congressional District.”
05.13.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a senior member of the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee, recently called for the Committee to hold an oversight hearing to examine the increasingly exorbitant cost of cancer drugs. In a letter to Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, Lynch noted that the cost of certain cancer drugs is now exceeding $100,000 per year and that as a direct result, many cancer patients do not have access to life-extending and life-saving treatment. Importantly, in April of 2013, the Journal for the American Society of Hematology published a seminal study on skyrocketing cancer drug prices completed by a renowned group of over 100 medical experts in chronic myeloid leukemia, including oncologists at the MD Anderson Center in Houston, Texas, and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, New York. According to the study (“Price of Drugs for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, Reflection of the Unsustainable Cancer Drug Prices: Perspective of CML Experts”), 11 of the 12 cancer drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2012 were priced over $100,000 per year. In addition, the report notes that cancer drug prices have nearly doubled over the last decade, from an average cost of $5,000 per month to an average monthly cost of more than $10,000. Moreover, the expert group cites a variety of contributing factors to the rising cost of cancer drugs, including the increase in so-called “pay-for-delay” settlement agreements, under which a brand-name pharmaceutical company can delay the introduction of lower-cost generic drugs by paying a generic manufacturer to hold its competing drug off the market for a given period of time. According to the Federal Trade Commission, the federal agency responsible for safeguarding American consumers against anticompetitive business practices, pay-for-delay deals cost Americans $3.5 billion annually. “It is imperative that Congress conduct robust oversight of the ever-inflating cost of cancer drugs in order to preserve drug affordability and accessibility for all of our nation’s cancer patients,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Given the key role of the House Oversight Committee in examining reports of waste, fraud, and abuse in federal spending, an Oversight hearing on cancer drug pricing would also serve to better ensure that pharmaceutical company profits do not come at the expense of American taxpayer dollars.” You can read the text of the letter here: May 8, 2013 The Honorable Darrell E. Issa The Honorable Elijah Cummings Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building 2471 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Cummings: I am writing to respectfully request that the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform convene a hearing to examine the causes contributing to the alarming cost of cancer drugs. Regrettably, the average cost of these critical drugs has risen to over $100,000 per year and as a result, access to life-extending and life-saving cancer treatment has been increasingly denied to many cancer patients. As you may know, on April 25, 2013, the American Society of Hematology (ASH) published in its weekly Blood Journal, a seminal report, entitled "Price of drugs for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), reflection of the unsustainable cancer drug prices: perspective of CML Experts”, that included contributions from more than 100 international experts in CML. According to the ASH study, a variety of factors have contributed to the rising cost in cancer drug pricing, including price of the most recent similar drug on the market, the cost of bringing a drug to market, and geopolitical and socioeconomic dynamics unrelated to the cost of drug development. In addition, the report sets forth meaningful steps that we can take in order to lower the prices of these drugs, increase cancer drug accessibility, and maintain sounder health care policies in the long-term with respect to cancer drug treatment. Prices for cancer drugs have for years been part of the healthcare cost debate. And the profits earned by pharmaceutical companies come under regular scrutiny. With the majority of drug research paid for with public funds, and federal regulatory guidelines being an important part of bringing these drugs to market, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has an important role in realizing how we might make these critical lifesaving drugs more affordable and accessible. In the interest of a full and productive hearing, a range of witnesses representing the perspectives of the Food and Drug Administration, The Federal Trade Commission, the ASH and other cancer treatment professionals, and the pharmaceutical industry, would be helpful. I am sure our capable Committee staff could also add to that list. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress
04.12.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, today introduced H.R. 1520, the POW/MIA Accounting and Recovery Support Act of 2013, joined by lead Republican cosponsor Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson of Pennsylvania. This bipartisan legislation, also supported by Rep. Danny Davis (IL-07), Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), and Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05), would better ensure that ongoing efforts conducted by the Department of Defense’s Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC) to locate and recover the remains of unaccounted-for American service members are not delayed due to sequestration. As recently announced by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, the Department of Defense (DoD) plans to furlough as many as 800,000 federal civilian workers in response to sequestration cuts to defense spending that took effect on March 1, 2013. Currently, DoD civilian workers will be required to take 14 furlough days, or unpaid days off, between now and October. As a result, these federal employees will have to take at least 2 furlough days per pay period with no current exceptions. Regrettably, this requirement will significantly impact JPAC’s POW/MIA accounting and recovery operations given that their teams are deployed on missions that routinely last between 35 and 45 days. Moreover, JPAC missions customarily include at least 3 civilian workers, including anthropologists, archeologists, and life support analysts who examine aircraft wreckage. “The POW/MIA Accounting and Recovery Support Act will afford our dedicated JPAC civilian employees the flexibility to complete their furloughs after they return from a deployment and thereby allow critical JPAC missions to continue,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “I’ve witnessed JPAC’s world-class research and forensic operations first-hand and I believe that we must make every effort to safeguard the Command against any disruption in its landmark search for our missing and fallen American troops.” “This bill allows JPAC to continue on their important mission of making sure our country ‘leaves no man behind,’” stated Congressman Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson. “It’s an important promise we made to all our veterans and service members, and this bill will protect JPAC’s civilian employees while they are on deployment.” Specifically, H.R. 1520 would require the Secretary of Defense to allow any DoD civilian employee who is required to take a furlough that would otherwise occur during their deployment in support of JPAC accounting and recovery operations to take their furlough after returning from their mission. JPAC currently employs over 400 joint military and civilian personnel and maintains four permanent detachments in Bangkok, Thailand; Hanoi, Vietnam; Vientiane, Laos; and at the United States European Command in Germany to support recovery operations. Presently, the Department of Defense estimates that there more than 83,000 Americans still unaccounted-for from World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and other prior conflicts.
04.11.2013	“I am encouraged by today’s Senate vote to consider compromise gun control legislation, and I commend Senators Manchin and Toomey for their bipartisan amendment to expand background checks. As the Senate moves forward on this debate, I continue to support common sense measures to reduce gun violence, and I am hopeful that House Republican Leadership will allow an up or down vote on this legislation.”
04.06.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch released the following statement in response to yesterday’s decision from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Lynch recently expressed concern to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta over the scheduled closings in a letter last month with the Massachusetts Cnogressional Delegation and a letter sent Thursday with Representative Bob Goodlatte and 45 House colleagues. “The Federal Aviation Administration’s decision to delay the closures of 149 contract air traffic control towers is a step in the right direction. Five of these towers are located in Massachusetts – Norwood, New Bedford, Lawrence, Beverly, and Worcester and are critical to their communities and to the safety and efficiency of our national air transportation system. Originally scheduled to close this Sunday, April 7th, the towers will now remain open until June 15th, giving Congress additional time to work with the FAA on an alternate solution. The additional time will also give the FAA an opportunity to work with pilots and airport operators to ensure that any changes are properly implemented and the safety of the flying public and surrounding communities is not compromised.” Downloads » FAA Contract Tower Closings Letter.pdf» ATCT Letter to FAA.pdf
03.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In honor of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition’s “National Day to Demand Action,” all eleven members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today pledged their support for universal gun background checks as a common sense reform to help end gun violence. "It is long past time for the Senate to pass common sense gun control measures that will help protect our kids and make our communities safer," said Sen. Warren. "I applaud the leadership of Mayor Menino and Mayors Against Illegal Guns. We can reduce gun violence by requiring background checks, by banning assault weapons, and by collecting better data about gun deaths. A day of action gives us all a chance to reaffirm our commitment to the safety of our children." “Every day that passes since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary as many as thirty-three Americans are killed in our communities by gun violence. That means that each day we are repeating the senseless tragedy that killed twenty-six in Newtown last December. But, we have now a chance to finally pass commonsense reforms like universal background checks that respect and preserve the second amendment but also help keep guns out of the hands of those who cannot have them legally,” said Sen. Cowan. “It is our duty to put forward reforms that will protect our children and families from gun violence. I hope to have the opportunity during my short time in Washington to see Congress come together and unite behind smart gun safety measures that can save lives.” "Opponents of gun controls often like to say that people kill people, not the guns. Then there should be no opposition whatsoever to checking whether people are responsible enough to own a gun,” said Rep. Markey. “Along with universal background checks, we need a strong assault weapons ban and a prohibition against high capacity ammunition magazines. It's time to get these military-style weapons off of our streets and to prevent deadly weapons from falling into the wrong hands." “Along with millions of Americans across our country, I am committed to passing commonsense legislation that includes comprehensive background checks,” said Rep. Tierney. “This proposal would help protect our children and make communities safer, and it is a reasonable step we should all be able to get behind.” "I believe the American family needs to have a candid conversation about the scourge of gun violence in our nation. We need to find common sense solutions that will protect our children and our communities from mindless acts of violence,” said Rep. Neal. “There is no good reason why this issue should polarize America. And a good place to start is with universal background checks and closing the gun show loopholes.” “Requiring background checks on all gun sales is just one part of a comprehensive, common sense approach to reducing gun violence,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am proud to stand with my Massachusetts colleagues in support of universal background checks and I applaud Mayor Menino’s leadership on this issue. Our nation has witnessed enough senseless violence. It is time for Congress to act. Together, we can help protect our children and keep our communities safer.” “I have long supported universal background checks for gun purchases, and I’m pleased to see that the Senate has begun working on this critical issue,” said Rep. McGovern. “I hope that the House will take up similar legislation during the 113th Congress to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, the seriously mentally ill, and other dangerous people. Universal background checks are a vital component of comprehensive gun violence prevention efforts, and Congress must act now.” “As a District Attorney for 12 years, I have seen the effects of gun violence in very concrete terms,” said Rep. Keating. “No one’s rights are infringed upon with universal background checks and their sole purpose is to protect the public. Background checks will be a constructive step towards enhancing our public safety.” “I applaud Mayors Against Illegal Guns and activists all over the country who are speaking out in support of gun control. It is long past time to take action and there is so much we can do to tighten laws while still respecting the 2nd amendment,” said Rep. Capuano. “There is overwhelming support, even among gun owners, for universal background checks. There is no reason to wait on this common sense requirement that will save lives.” “Since the tragedy in Newtown rocked our national conscience, our entire nation has rightfully engaged in a discussion about the accessibility of high capacity weapons in our country and the culture of violence we live in. This conversation is long overdue. It is simply not an option to allow this discussion to become stagnant or to be bullied into silence by seemingly untouchable organizations,” said Rep. Tsongas. “While I believe that the Constitution confers a right to own firearms, I also believe that our laws should be able to reasonably control gun manufacturing, sale, and usage to ensure that firearms are used safely and responsibly. Universal background checks are a vital step in that process and toward greater public safety.” “Over the past decade there have been too many lives lost, families broken and communities shattered by our inability to keep powerful weapons out of dangerous hands,” said Rep. Kennedy. “I’m proud to stand with Mayor Menino, my fellow members of the Massachusetts delegation, and millions of Americans across the country in supporting background checks and demanding reform." “Never before have so many Americans come together to say ‘enough is enough’ and demand action from our leaders in Washington,” said Mayor Menino. “I am proud of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation. They stand united as leaders for background checks on all gun sales and have always answered the call for the safety of the residents of our neighborhoods. On this day of action across the United States, the message from the American people is represented best by our Massachusetts Delegation: we want common sense reforms that keep guns out of the wrong hands.” A recent poll by Mayors Against Illegal Guns found that in 41 key congressional districts across the nation, 89 percent of likely voters are in favor of requiring background checks for all gun sales in addition to 82 percent of gun owners – including 74 percent of National Rifle Association members who endorsed mandatory criminal background checks for anyone purchasing a gun. There are 6.6 million guns transferred in the U.S. every year with no background check for the buyer, but in the fourteen states that already require background checks for all handgun sales, gun trafficking is 48 percent lower, the rate of women murdered by an intimate partner with a gun was 38 percent lower and the firearm suicide rate was 49 percent lower than in other states. Mayors Against Illegal Guns is a national, bipartisan coalition of mayors that was co-founded in 2006 by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino. The coalition has grown from a committed group of 15 members to more than 900 mayors from 45 states, including Republicans, Democrats and Independents from major cities and small towns around the country. Mayors Against Illegal Guns advocates for common-sense measures that will close deadly gaps in our gun laws and make sure law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to detect and deter gun trafficking. For more information visit www.MayorsAgainstIllegalGuns.org.
03.25.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Austin Snyder for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Austin, the son of Richard and Maureen Snyder, is a senior at Oliver Ames High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Austin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Oliver Ames High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Austin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Austin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Military Academy. Austin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Maureen. The Snyder family, the town of Easton, and the entire state should be proud of Austin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.25.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Thomas Warner for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Thomas, the son of Mark and Mary Warner, is a senior at The Roxbury Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Thomas was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at The Roxbury Latin School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Thomas are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Thomas was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Naval Academy. Thomas stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mark and Mary. The Warner family, the town of Needham and the entire state should be proud of Thomas in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.22.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and the Census, recently introduced H.R. 1367, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Integrity, Transparency, and Cost Savings Act. The bill would significantly strengthen federal oversight of the prescription drug benefits available to federal workers, retirees, and their families through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). H.R. 1367 would also better ensure that program enrollees and the American taxpayer are getting the best prescription drug benefit for their dollar. As the largest employer-sponsored health insurance program in the country, the FEHBP covers approximately 8.2 million federal workers, annuitants, and dependents. According to the Office of Personnel Management, the FEHPB provides an estimated $45 billion in health care benefits per year and spends over $10 billion of that amount on prescription drug costs alone. Despite the fact that prescription drug costs compromise nearly 30% of FEHBP premiums, the program’s pharmacy benefit and pricing structure has been subject to limited federal oversight. Moreover, in contrast to other federal programs, the FEHBP does not regulate or negotiate drug pricing for its enrollees but rather relies on competition among its various carriers and so-called Pharmacy Benefit Managers to negotiate prescription drug benefits and maintain affordable prices. Regrettably, however, the FEHBP is paying between 15% and 45% more for its prescription drugs than other federal programs, including those at the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Public Health Service’s 340B Program. In addition, the FEHBP is even experiencing higher prescription drug costs than some non-federal and private sector programs. “If we’re looking for responsible alternatives to addressing deficit reduction and reining in health care costs, strong oversight of the FEHBP prescription drug benefit would be a commonsense starting point,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Through enhanced oversight provisions that allow for alternative contracting and pricing mechanisms and mandate increased transparency, my legislation will serve to maximize cost savings and enhance the program’s ability to offer high-quality and low-cost prescription drugs.” In particular, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Integrity, Transparency, and Cost Savings Act provides the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) greater oversight authority of the FEHBP’s prescription drug contracting and pricing methods in order to better ensure that federal workers are receiving the best benefits at the best price. Among the strong oversight provisions included in the legislation is a requirement that Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), who currently contract with individual insurance plans to provide FEHBP prescription drug benefits, return 99% of all rebates, market share incentives, and other monies received from pharmaceutical manufacturers for FEHBP business. In addition, the legislation would prohibit “drug switching” without prior physician approval, impose new disclosure and transparency requirements on PBMs in line with industry trends, and cap prescription drug prices paid by the FEHBP at the amount of the Average Manufacture Price (AMP). H.R. 1367, the FEHBP Prescription Drug Integrity, Transparency, and Cost Savings Act, has received the support of several key FEHBP stakeholders, including the American Federation of Government Employees and the National Treasury Employees Union. J. David Cox, President of the American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO, said, “AFGE is proud to endorse H.R. 1367, legislation introduced by Congressman Lynch to rein in the escalation of FEHBP prescription drug costs. The increase in prescription drug costs has been a major factor in the sharp increases in FEHBP health insurance premiums paid by federal employees and their families. AFGE has been urging OPM to crack down on abusive pharmaceutical and insurance company practices for years, and Congressman Lynch has demonstrated his capacity for leadership in this critical area by introducing this legislation. Federal employees pay at least 25% and as much as 55% of their FEHBP premiums, and they have needed an aggressive advocate for cost controls in this critical program. They’ve got one in Congressman Lynch.” “The National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) has long advocated for needed improvements in FEHBP’s prescription drug contracting and pricing practices, including providing OPM with greater oversight authority,” said NTEU National President Colleen M. Kelley. “This legislation would be a major step forward in bringing down health care costs for federal workers and retirees. We applaud the continuing work of Rep. Lynch on this important matter. We welcome this bill and strongly support it.”
03.21.2013	“Today, I voted against the House budget resolution, H. Con. Res. 25, offered by Congressman Paul Ryan and House Republicans because it takes this country in the wrong direction. We face many challenges, including our growing national debt, but we will only solve these challenges when we work together in a bipartisan way to craft a balanced solution, one that is grounded in shared sacrifice and does not balance our budget on the backs of seniors and working families. The Ryan budget takes us further from that goal. A budget is more than a spending document. It is a statement of our values and a vision of the direction in which we want to take our country. The Ryan budget values privatizing Medicare over strengthening seniors’ retirement security. It values giveaways to special interest groups over investments in infrastructure that create good-paying American jobs. And the Ryan budget values tax breaks for the super rich over the needs of working families and the poor. That is a vision I cannot support, and that is why I voted against the Ryan budget.”
03.20.2013	Led by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, the Massachusetts Delegation today expressed concern with the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) planned closure of approximately 200 contract air traffic control (ATC) towers nationwide due to the sequestration budget cuts. Six of the towers slated for possible closure service Massachusetts airports: Norwood, New Bedford, Lawrence, Beverly, Worcester and Westfield-Barnes. Collectively, these six towers handle hundreds of thousands of operations annually, accommodating commercial, private, medical and military aircraft and flight services. In a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta, the members wrote, “We agree on the need to identify means through which to improve our current fiscal situation. But any such effort should not jeopardize the safety, security and economic well-being of our citizens. These six ATC towers and others around the country are critical to the continued successful operation of their respective airports and to the regions they serve, and vital to our national interests.” The full text of the letter can be found here. Downloads » FAA Contract Tower Closings Letter.pdf
03.20.2013	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch joined Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and eight House colleagues in calling on regulators to implement a clear, strong Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule was included in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to prevent banks from gambling with customer money by using it to engage in risky proprietary trading for the bank’s own gain. “As the JPMorgan Chase ‘London Whale’ trading debacle proves, big Wall Street megabanks continue to make reckless bets while at the same time trying to delay and water down critical reforms such as the Volcker Rule in the Dodd-Frank Act,” said Lynch. “I agree that it is long past time that the regulators put in place a strong Volcker Rule that is both clear and easy for banks to follow and free of unnecessary loopholes.” A copy of the joint statement can be found below:Last week’s report by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on JPMorgan Chase Whale Trades, along with a hearing on the same topic held on Friday, March 15, serves as a reminder to regulators about the importance of implementing a strong Volcker Rule and establishing a firewall between our nation’s core banking system and high-risk investment banking practices. It is clear that JPMorgan Chase was using depositors’ money to engage in high-risk trading practices. According to the Senate report, “without alerting regulators, JPMorgan Chase’s Chief Investment Officer used bank deposits, including some that were federally insured, to construct a $157 billion portfolio of synthetic credit derivatives, engaged in high risk, complex, short term trading strategies, and disclosed the extent and high risk nature of the portfolio to its regulators only after it attracted media attention.” The report also finds that JPMorgan Chase mischaracterized high-risk trading as hedging, hid its massive losses, disregarded risk, dodged oversight and mischaracterized its portfolio to investors, regulators, policy makers and the public. Such conflict-ridden, high-risk trading activities played a central role in big banks’ accumulation of the failed toxic assets that helped freeze credit to businesses and families as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, and lead to trillions of dollars of bailouts of the largest financial firms. Congress established the Volcker Rule as part of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 to separate such high risk trading from commercial banking and to ensure that taxpayers never have to bail out these kinds of bad bets again. This rule was supposed to be finalized by regulators in July 2012, but is still stagnating, unimplemented. The recent findings of the Senate Committee should serve as a wake-up call to regulators to cease the delays and immediately implement a strong Volcker Rule to protect depositors and taxpayers and strengthen U.S capital markets. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Rep. Peter Welch (VT-At Large) Rep. John Conyers (MI-13) Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA-08) Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (GA-04) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Rep. Jim Moran (VA-08) Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02)
03.15.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on the United States Postal Service, recently introduced legislation to enhance the financial footing of our nation’s most trusted government institution. In particular, the United States Postal Service Stabilization Act, H.R. 961, would address the billions of dollars that the agency has overpaid to the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) liabilities and return the overpayment surplus to the Postal Service so that it can better meet its financial obligations. “The Postal Service continues to face fiscal challenges and it is imperative that Congress reach agreement on postal reform in the 113th Congress,” said Congressman Lynch. “The United States Postal Service Stabilization Act is a commonsense alternative that will afford the Postal Service much-needed financial flexibility without compromising mail delivery standards or unfairly burdening our dedicated postal workforce.” As recently reported by Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe, the Postal Service is facing a $20 billion budget gap after recording a loss of $15.9 billion last year. In addition, while the Postal Service has overpaid its FERS liabilities by billions of dollars, the amount that the federal government could return to the agency has been significantly understated due to the use of an arbitrary and misguided calculation formula by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). In particular, in determining the amount of the Postal Service’s FERS surplus, OPM did not include the fact that postal workers have experienced significantly less salary growth than the rest of the federal workforce. The United States Postal Service Stabilization Act would require the federal government to recalculate the Postal Service’s FERS liabilities using postal-specific factors such as postal salary growth and postal employee demographic statistics in order to determine the exact amount of the FERS surplus. According to a recent report issued by the Hay Group, an independent actuarial consulting firm, the use of postal-specific assumptions by OPM could result in a FERS surplus of at least $12.48 billion, as opposed to the $3 billion figure projected by OPM using government-wide factors. Notably, H.R. 961 would also return this overpayment amount to the Postal Service in order to enhance the agency’s financial viability and better allow USPS to meet its outstanding and future financial obligations. Moreover, the bill would also require the use of postal-specific assumptions going forward in order to safeguard against future overpayments. The United States Postal Service Stabilization Act has received the strong support of the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC), the National Rural Letter Carriers’ Association (NRLCA), the National Postal Mail Handlers Union (NPMHU), and the American Postal Workers Union (APWU).
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening the Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 8th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 8th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by Wednesday, April 24, 2013. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Josh White of South Easton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” More information, including art competition guidelines, can be found here. ###
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Devin Brock for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Devin, the son of James and Anne Brock, is a senior at William J. Ostiguy High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Devin was highly recommended by his teachers at Ostiguy High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Devin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Devin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Military Academy. Devin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Anne. The Brock family, South Boston and the entire state should be proud of Devin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # #
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Ross Furash for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Ross, the son of Stanley and Mary Furash, is a senior at Boston Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Ross was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Latin School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Ross are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Ross was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the Naval Academy. Ross stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Stanley and Mary. The Furash family, Roslindale and the entire state should be proud of Ross in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # #
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John O’Hear for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. John, the son of Tom and Noreen O’Hear, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Catholic Memorial High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the Naval Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Tom and Noreen. The O’Hear family, the town of Walpole and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # #
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Patrick Kearney for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Patrick, the son of the Honorable Brian Kearney and Maryanne Lewis, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Patrick was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Patrick are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Patrick was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the Merchant Marine Academy. Patrick stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Brian and Maryanne. The Kearney family, the town of Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Patrick in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # #
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Brendan MacDonald for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Brendan, the son of Mark and Patricia MacDonald, is a senior at Canton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Brendan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Brendan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Brendan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. Brendan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mark and Patricia. The MacDonald family, the town of Canton and the entire state should be proud of Brendan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Denis Glinski for appointment to the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Denis, the son of Ed Glinski, M.D. and Denise Kenneally, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Denis was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Denis are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Denis was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. Denis stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Ed and Denise. The Glinski family, the town of Milton and the entire state should be proud of Denis in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.13.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8) wrote to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder today expressing serious concern about his statements at a Senate hearing last week indicating some Wall Street banks are “too big to jail.” “A handful of large Wall Street Banks caused the financial crisis by engaging in bad behavior that wrecked our economy and sent us into a recession, inflicting damage on middle class families that they are still dealing with today,” said Lynch. “No major Wall Street bank or banker has been convicted of a crime. They have been charged modest fines that are at best slaps on the wrist. And now in the blunt assessment of the Attorney General of the United States we are told that the reason we have not seen criminal convictions is that the banks have become too big to prosecute. While we appreciate the Attorney General's honesty, this situation he describes is not acceptable.” Lynch, a senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee and House Oversight & Government Reform Committee, has been a vocal critic of the irresponsible practices of banks that caused the crisis. He voted against the bill that authorized the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) that bailed out the big banks in 2008 and he reigned in reckless behavior at banks by working to craft an effective Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act and by fighting off attempts to weaken its accountability provisions. The full text of the letter from Congressman Lynch to Attorney General Holder can be found here. Downloads » 031313_ Letter from Rep Stephen Lynch to AG Holder.pdf
02.28.2013	“Today, the House of Representatives passed S.47, to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. I am proud to support this strong, bipartisan legislation which extends protections to all victims of sexual assault and domestic violence.”
02.27.2013	Senators Elizabeth Warren and William “Mo” Cowan and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced recently that the Town of Walpole has been awarded a grant through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The federally-funded award, in the amount of $116,209, will be used to replace an antiquated fire alerting system. The new system will connect the police department and all three fire stations in Walpole for more efficient and effective communications. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all Fiscal Year 2012 awards will represent a $337.5 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. “I’m glad that the Walpole Fire Department has secured this fire grant, which will help make sure our firefighters have the critical resources and equipment they need,” said Senator Warren. “Firefighters work tirelessly and courageously to keep our cities and towns safe, and this grant program helps support our local fire departments so they can continue to protect our communities.” “The best way to enable our firefighters to protect Massachusetts families is to ensure they have access to the most up-to-date equipment and resources. This funding will make all the difference for Walpole firefighters in keeping the community safe every time that alarm bell goes off,” said Senator Cowan. “I want to commend Chief Tim Bailey and the entire Walpole Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. This federal funding will go a long way in providing the Walpole Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep their community and themselves safe.” “The Assistance to Firefighters grant will help us purchase much-needed equipment to replace a fire alerting system that is more than 20 years old. The new system will help our firefighters to better respond to emergencies and protect the community of Walpole,” Chief Tim Bailey said.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Thomas “T.J.” MacAleese for appointment to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. T.J., the son of Kevin and Karen MacAleese, is a senior at Braintree High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “T.J. was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Braintree High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like T.J. are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, T.J. was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. T.J. stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Kevin and Karen. The MacAleese family, the town of Braintree and the entire state should be proud of T.J. in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Stephen Campo for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. Stephen, the son of John and Joanne Campo, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Stephen was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Stephen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Stephen was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. Stephen stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Joanne. The Campo family, the town of Milton and the entire state should be proud of Stephen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Ryan McClellan for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Ryan, the son of Robert and Stephanie McClellan, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Ryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Ryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Ryan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Naval Academy. Ryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Stephanie. The McClellan family, the town of Canton and the entire state should be proud of Ryan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Ryan FitzPatrick for appointment to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy and United States Military Academy. Ryan, the son of James and Colleen FitzPatrick, is a senior at Noble and Greenough School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Ryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Noble and Greenough School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Ryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Ryan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. Ryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Colleen. The FitzPatrick family, the town of Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Ryan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Meghan O’Loughlin for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Meghan, the daughter of Francis and Patricia O’Loughlin, is a senior at Boston Arts Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Meghan was highly recommended by her teachers at Boston Arts Academy. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Meghan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Meghan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Naval Academy. Meghan stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Francis and Patricia. The O’Loughlin family, South Boston and the entire state should be proud of Meghan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Costello for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Matthew, the son of Richard Costello and Patricia Kelly, is a senior at Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Patricia. The Costello family, the town of Westwood and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Maria Navarro for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Maria, the daughter of Adenilso and Eliane Navarro, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Maria was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Brockton High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Maria are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Maria was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Military Academy. Maria stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Adenilso and Eliane. The Navarro family, the city of Brockton and the entire state should be proud of Maria in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Gillespie for appointment to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Military Academy. Joseph, the son of Joseph and Melissa Gillespie, is a senior at Boston Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Latin School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the service academies. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Joseph and Melissa. The Gillespie family, West Roxbury and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John Campbell for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. John, the son of Paul and Amy Campbell, is a senior at Norwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Norwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the U.S. Air Force Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Paul and Amy. The Campbell family, the town of Norwood and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.26.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Coleman Danilecki for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Coleman, the son of John and Patricia Danilecki, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Coleman was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Coleman are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Coleman was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year for the Merchant Marine Academy. Coleman stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Patricia. The Danilecki family, the town of Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Coleman in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.14.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8) recently announced the opening of a new district office in Quincy, Massachusetts. The new office is located at 1245 Hancock Street, Suite 16 and will be staffed Monday –Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5 p.m. Lynch’s district now includes the City of Quincy and the towns of Weymouth, Hull, Cohasset, Scituate, Hingham, Abington, and parts of Raynham. “I am pleased that the new Quincy office is officially open. With redistricting, congressional districts have grown and this additional location will help my staff and me to better serve the 8th District,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. The Quincy office is located near public transportation and is wheelchair accessible. Lynch also maintains district offices in Boston and Brockton and an office in Washington, D.C. Complete contact information is available below. Lynch added, “My constituents are always welcome to visit or call any of my offices if they need assistance or if they have questions or concerns.”Boston District Office 88 Black Falcon Avenue, Suite 340 Boston, MA 02210 Phone: 617-428-2000 Fax: 617-428-2011Brockton District Office 155 West Elm Street, Suite 200 Brockton, MA 02301 Phone: 508-586-5555 Fax: 508-580-4692Quincy District Office 1245 Hancock Street, Suite 16 Quincy, MA Phone: 617-657-6305 Fax: 617-773-0955Washington, D.C. Office 2133 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: 202-225-8273 Fax: 202-225-3984
02.06.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and the Census, released the following statement in response to the United State Postal Service’s announcement today on five-day mail delivery: “I am deeply concerned by the United State Postal Service’s decision to transition to five day delivery without congressional consent. The elimination of Saturday mail delivery will have a negative impact on thousands of businesses across the nation that are operating on a six day schedule. This could be a damaging policy change in a fragile economy. Clearly, the Postal Service continues to face a variety of significant fiscal challenges, from decreasing mail volume and declining revenue, to the onerous mandate that the agency prefund its retiree health benefit obligations 75 years before it is necessary. However, I do not believe that the solution to improving the financial viability of the Postal Service will be found in a unilateral and legally-questionable move to five day delivery, but rather through the enactment of bipartisan, comprehensive, and well-reasoned postal reform legislation.”
01.23.2013	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently introduced H.R. 264, the FHA Enhanced Oversight Act of 2013, which would increase the transparency and accountability of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) by requiring a second annual independent analysis of its financial status. Currently, the FHA is only required to conduct one independent study per year. A second analysis, which would be required only when the FHA is experiencing financial distress, will provide Congress with additional warning signs of trouble at the FHA. “The FHA currently guarantees more than $1 trillion in mortgages and roughly 25% of all mortgages originated in the United States. Given its enormously important role in our housing market, a bailout of the FHA would be a serious shock to the housing market and our economy as a whole,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “While the FHA continues to tell Congress all is well, its fiscal health continues to deteriorate—Congress needs better information, and we need it more often.” The FHA guarantees mortgages made by private lenders to borrowers who would otherwise have trouble securing a loan in the private market. To pay claims when a mortgage defaults or goes into foreclosure, the FHA maintains a Mutual Mortgage Insurance (MMI) Fund, which Congress requires to be worth at least 2% of the total amount of loans the FHA guarantees. Each year, an independent actuary studies the MMI Fund to analyze how FHA guaranteed loans are performing and calculate whether the MMI Fund meets the 2% capital ratio requirement. Congressman Lynch’s bill would require an additional annual review when the MMI Fund’s capital ratio dips below the required 2% level. The MMI Fund’s capital ratio, which has been in steady decline since the housing market collapsed, has been below the statutorily mandated 2% in each Fiscal Year since 2009. In November 2012, FHA announced that the independent study showed that the capital ratio of the MMI Fund was -1.44%, meaning that the fund has a negative economic value and will need a bailout sometime during this year unless changes are made to make the Fund solvent. Lynch introduced similar legislation in the 111th and 112th Congresses; his FHA Enhanced Oversight Act passed the House of Representatives last Congress as part of the FHA Emergency Fiscal Solvency Act of 2012, but was not taken up in the Senate. “The FHA must continue to play an important role in expanding access to our housing market, but we cannot be blind to the danger it poses when the housing market is in turmoil. By increasing the transparency and oversight of the MMI Fund, this common sense bill would protect the American taxpayer as well as our economy,” Lynch added.
12.14.2012	"I am deeply saddened by the senseless violence and heartbreaking tragedy in Connecticut today. My heart goes out to the families and friends of the children and faculty and my thoughts and prayers are with the entire Newtown community.” - Congressman Stephen F. Lynch
09.19.2012	On Sunday, October 21st, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students in the Ninth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. • United States Military Academy • United States Naval Academy • United States Air Force Academy • United States Merchant Marine Academy • United States Coast Guard Academy All students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 21st TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000
08.28.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has called for hearings into the alarming increase of attacks on U.S. service members and coalition troops by Afghan security forces. A member of the Oversight Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations, Lynch has visited Afghanistan frequently as part of his oversight duties. ‪In a letter to Chairman Darrell Issa and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings, Lynch expressed serious concern over the so-called “Green on Blue” attacks and requested the Oversight and Government Reform Committee to hold hearings to investigate the rise in these incidents. In 2012 alone, 40 coalition members, including ten Americans, have been killed by Afghan security forces. ‪ “These attacks threaten to jeopardize our ability to cooperate effectively with Afghan forces and may delay our ability to transition to Afghan-led security operations by the 2014 NATO deadline,” Lynch wrote. ‪The full text of the letter is below: August 24, 2012 The Honorable Darrell E. Issa The Honorable Elijah Cummings Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building 2471 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Cummings: I am writing to respectfully request that the Oversight and Government Reform Committee convene a hearing to investigate the alarming increase in so-called “Green-on-Blue” attacks in Afghanistan and the potential exposure to remaining U.S. forces during the current withdrawal timetable which ends in 2014. As you know, this year has seen an extremely disturbing rise in the incidences of Afghan security forces turning on coalition forces, with 40 members, including 10 Americans, killed so far in 2012. These attacks threaten to jeopardize our ability to cooperate effectively with Afghan forces and may delay our ability to transition to Afghan-led security operations by the 2014 NATO deadline. Throughout the United States’ involvement in operations in Afghanistan, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has worked actively to ensure that U.S. forces have the resources necessary to succeed in their mission while requiring that U.S. funds are being spent transparently and effectively. This development requires that we do no less. In the interest of a full and productive hearing, a range of witnesses representing the perspectives of the Department of Defense, including Central Command, Department of State, the Afghan Government, ISAF and NATO would be helpful. I am sure that our capable Committee staff could also add to that list. Thank you in advance for your consideration of my request. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Jason Chaffetz The Honorable John Tierney
06.23.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently returned from a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Djibouti and Egypt. Joining Congressman Lynch were Representatives Todd Platts (R-PA), Jack Kingston (R-GA), Glenn Thompson (R-PA), Tom Marino (R-PA), and John Fleming (R-LA). ‪A member of the House Oversight Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Congressman Lynch regularly conducts official travel to the Middle East region as part of his Congressional oversight duties. This was Lynch’s 8th trip to Afghanistan. ‪In Kabul, Afghanistan, Congressman Lynch and the Delegation met with General John Allen, Commander of the International Security Assistance Force, and Ambassador Ryan Crocker to discuss the current security and political environment in the region. In particular, the meeting examined the impact of Pakistan's ongoing closure of key ground NATO supply routes to Afghanistan as well as the progress of the withdrawal of U.S. and international forces. ‪ While in Afghanistan, Congressman Lynch also conducted a site visit to the Craig Joint Theater Hospital in Bagram. This military hospital specializes in traumatic brain injury treatment and concussive care for wounded soldiers and has treated approximately 4,000 patients a month since opening in 2007. ‪In addition, the Delegation traveled to several regional command and combat outposts in southwestern Afghanistan in order to examine tactical and training operations and meet with service men and women. Specifically, the CODEL visited Camp Leatherneck in Helmand Province as well as COP (Combat Outpost) Deysie and COP Wilderness in Paktiya Province, a key area of coordinated action efforts between U.S. troops and the Afghan Army. ‪During the CODEL's visit to Islamabad, Pakistan, Congressman Lynch and the Delegation held a series of coordinated meetings with President Asif Ali Zardari, Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, Chief of Staff for the Pakistan Army, and various members of the Pakistani Parliament to discuss the progress of U.S.- Pakistani relations as well as chief regional and international security issues. In particular, the Delegation highlighted the importance of continued and successful negotiations between the U.S. and the Government of Pakistan regarding the reopening of ground supply routes for NATO forces in Afghanistan. Pakistan has closed these vital supply routes, key to NATO’s mission in Afghanistan, and negotiations have recently reached a stalemate. ‪Accompanied by the 6th Aviation Squadron of the Pakistan Army, the Delegation also conducted oversight of Tarbela Dam, poppy eradication along the Indus River and several USAID projects. ‪Following its departure from Pakistan, Congressman Lynch and the Delegation spent a night aboard the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier, a member of the U.S. Pacific Fleet and the flagship of the Carrier Strike Group 9. During its visit to the Lincoln, the Delegation surveyed flight operations and crew exercises and met with constituent crew men and women deployed in support of the carrier's tactical and support operations mission. ‪“I cannot say enough in support of our brave men and women fighting overseas,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “I really value the chance to listen to the concerns of these fighter pilots, Sailors and Marines. It helps me get a real sense of conditions on the ground and that informs my decisions in Washington.” ‪The CODEL subsequently traveled to Sana'a, Yemen, where Congressman Lynch met with President Abdo Rabbo Mansour Hadi whose military is fighting an ongoing rebellion led by about 2000 Al Qaeda insurgents in Southern Yemen. ‪Before the final stop in Cairo, Egypt, delegation members visited Camp Lemmonier in Djibouti, Africa, to receive an operational and intelligence briefing from the Combined Joint Task Force-Horn of Africa (CJTF-HOA) and meet with service men and women stationed in Djibouti. Notably, the CJTF-HOA seeks to combat and counter violent extremism in East Africa and promote regional security efforts. ‪Delegation members arrived in Cairo, Egypt on the first day of the country’s historic presidential election. Accordingly, Congressman Lynch and the Delegation conducted oversight visits at two separate polling stations and also visited Tahrir square which continues to be a center of political unrest and violence in Cairo.
05.17.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) recently announced that Josh White of South Easton has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery”, in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, 25 young artists from across the Ninth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, and pencil sketchings, among other mediums. In the end, the judges selected a mixed medium piece entitled “Simply Clippy” by Josh White, a senior at Oliver Ames High School in Easton. The entry was quartered, combining four different mediums to create one picture. Josh’s artwork has been flown to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Josh White’s winning entry demonstrates considerable skill and talent as well as creativity,” said Congressman Lynch. “Josh is a gifted young artist, and I hope his success will encourage other students from Easton and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Lynch added, “Our past five winners, from 2008 to 2012, have all been from Oliver Ames High School. That is a truly remarkable accomplishment for the school and highlights the superb instruction of Kristyn Shea. She is an extraordinary art teacher.” Congressman Lynch noted that there were a large number of outstanding submissions this year. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer. Congressman Lynch said, “It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District.”
05.15.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Marquis White for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Marquis, the son of Harold White and Pamela Lindsay, is a senior at Foxborough Regional Charter School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Marquis was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Foxborough Regional Charter School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Marquis are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Marquis White was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Marquis stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Harold and Pamela. The White family, the town of South Easton, and the entire state should be proud of Marquis in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.10.2012	The House of Representatives on Tuesday approved an amendment sponsored by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch that would increase funding by $4 million for the Department of Justice’s Drug Court Program. Lynch’s amendment will now be included in H.R. 5326, the FY2013 funding bill for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies. “Drug addiction affects every city and town in our country and reaches across every demographic. It shatters lives, breaks up families and, according to one report, costs over $600 billion annually. But drug courts have begun to make a real difference in Massachusetts by not only providing support, treatment and monitoring, but also reinforcing the grave consequences of recidivism by adopting a robust system that puts offenders in jail who refuse to get clean and who remain a threat to the public,” Congressman Lynch said. Drug courts are specifically geared toward offenders who are addicted to drugs or alcohol and have been charged with non-violent offenses, such as possession of a controlled substance. In these cases, the offender’s substance abuse is determined to be the primary contributing factor to their criminal activity. Through a combination of treatment services, mandatory drug testing, supervision and, when necessary, imprisonment, drug courts aim to treat substance abuse and reduce recidivism rates. According to the National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP), the drug court approach reduces crime by as much as 45% more than other sentencing options and, among drug court graduates, 75% are arrest-free at least two years after leaving the program. Furthermore, fewer arrests and less involvement with the criminal justice system produce savings of as much as $27 for every $1 invested in drug courts. Congressman Lynch’s amendment would increase drug court funding by $4 million, bringing funding for the National Drug Courts Program in line with its historic average. This $4 million increase would provide an additional 3,000 individuals with drug court treatment and supervision over a 3-year period. “Drug courts save money, reduce crime, and restore families. With addiction reaching epidemic proportions in communities throughout our country, drug court funding is critical and necessary. I thank Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chakah Fattah for their support for my amendment,” Congressman Lynch added. In the 112th Congress, Lynch also helped to re-establish the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse with Representative Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) and Representative Hal Rogers (R-KY). The caucus aims to raise awareness of prescription drug abuse and to work towards effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement, and research.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Murphy for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Andrew, the son of Andrew and Kathleen, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew Murphy was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Andrew and Kathleen. The Murphy family, the town of Randolph, and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jonathan Schneider for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Jonathan, the son of Richard and Christine, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jonathan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Catholic Memorial. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jonathan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jonathan Schneider was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Jonathan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Christine. The Schneider family, the town of Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Jonathan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kevin Sennott for appointment to both the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Kevin, the son of Peter and Mary, is a graduate of Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Kevin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Kevin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kevin Sennott was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for both the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Kevin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Peter and Mary. The Sennott family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Kevin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Warren Phillips III for appointment to the United States Air Force and the United States Naval Academy. Warren, the son of Warren and Maria, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Warren was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Warren are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Warren Phillips was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Warren stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Warren and Maria. The Phillips family, the town of Holbrook and the entire state should be proud of Warren in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Griffith Hiss for appointment to both the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Griffith, the son of Robert and Mary, is a senior at Milton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Griffith was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Milton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Griffith are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Griffith Hiss was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for both the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Griffith stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Mary. The Hiss family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Griffith in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kevin Painten for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the United States Military Academy. Kevin, the son of Paul and Francine, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Kevin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Kevin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kevin Painten was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Kevin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Paul and Francine. The Painten family, the town of Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Kevin in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.07.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jules Murphy for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Jules, the son of Kevin and Laura, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jules was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jules are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jules Murphy was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Jules stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Kevin and Laura. The Murphy family, the town of Easton and the entire state should be proud of Jules in this achievement.”
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Anthony Carreon for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Anthony, the son of Ana Coutu, is a senior at Minuteman High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Anthony was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Minuteman High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Anthony are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Anthony Carreon was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Anthony stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his mother Ana. The Carreon family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Anthony in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Bryan E. Glick for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Bryan, the son of James and Karen, is a graduate of Canton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Bryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Bryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Bryan Glick was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Bryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Karen. The Glick family, the town of Canton and the entire state should be proud of Bryan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jacob Nolan for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Jacob, the son of Terence Nolan and Elizabeth Wilson, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jacob was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jacob are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jacob Nolan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Jacob stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Terence and Elizabeth. The Nolan family, the town of Walpole and the entire state should be proud of Jacob in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jesse Chase for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Jesse, the son of Kevin and Anne, is a senior at Milton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jesse was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Milton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jesse are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jesse Chase was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military and U.S. Air Force Academies. Jesse stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Kevin and Anne. The Chase family, the town of Milton and the entire state should be proud of Jesse in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Mikaela Sakach for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Mikaela, the daughter of Darryl Sakach and Linda McNally, is a senior at Cardinal Spellman High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Mikaela was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Cardinal Spellman. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Mikaela are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Mikaela Sakach was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Mikaela stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Darryl and Linda. The Sakach family, the town of Stoughton and the entire state should be proud of Mikaela in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Timothy Lebbossiere for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Timothy, the son of Joseph and Susan, is a senior at Braintree High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Timothy was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Braintree High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Timothy are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Timothy Lebbossiere was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Timothy stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Susan and Joseph. The Lebbossiere family, the town of Braintree and the entire state should be proud of Timothy in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Timothy Andrea for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. Timothy, the son of Daniel and Anne, is a senior at Archbishop Williams High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Timothy was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Archbishop Williams. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Timothy are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Timothy Andrea was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated his to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Naval Academy. Timothy stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents Daniel and Anne. The Andrea family, the town of Holbrook and the entire state should be proud of Timothy in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher Burke for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Christopher, the son of Michael and Sonja, is a senior at Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Christopher was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Christopher are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher Burke was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Christopher stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Michael and Sonja. The Burke family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Christopher in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew McIsaac for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Matthew, the son of John and Joanne, is a senior at Dedham High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Dedham High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew McIsaac was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents John and Joanne. The McIsaac family, the town of Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Walker Loeffler for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Walker, the son of Thomas and Betsy Loeffler, is a senior at Medfield High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Walker was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Medfield High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Walker are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Walker Loeffler was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Walker stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Thomas and Betsy. The Loeffler family, the town of Medfield and the entire state should be proud of Walker in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Hunter Stowes for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Hunter is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Hunter was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Hunter are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Hunter Stowes was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Hunter stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. The Stowes family, the town of Norwood, and the entire state should be proud of Hunter in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Anna Mbengam for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Anna is a senior at Randolph High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Anna was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Randolph High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Anna are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Anna Mbengam was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Anna stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. The Mbengam family, the town of Randolph and the entire state should be proud of Anna in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
05.01.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Beck for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Andrew, the son of Clinton and Kimberly, is a senior at Oliver Ames High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Oliver Ames High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew Beck was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Clinton and Kimberly. The Beck family, the town of South Easton, and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
03.26.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that Katherine Shea has joined his office as District Representative. Katherine will act as the Congressman’s liaison for the towns of Dedham, Medfield, Norwood, Westwood, Walpole and Canton as well as handle matters pertaining to small business, environment, energy and trade and commerce and postal issues. Katherine most recently served as a Superior Court Administrator for Norfolk County District Attorney Michael Morrissey's Office. Katherine has also worked for the Quincy Recreation Department and has volunteered as a youth soccer coach and an after-school tutor. A lifelong resident of Quincy, Katherine is a graduate of Quincy High School and Providence College, where she majored in political science and minored in business studies and public administration. “We are fortunate to have Katherine join our staff,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “We have a very busy office and she brings a great deal of energy, intelligence and enthusiasm to her position. Katherine is a wonderful addition to our office.”
03.21.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Niki Tsongas and Stephen F. Lynch, today announced that firefighters and emergency response teams across Massachusetts will receive $2,239,190 in federal funding to improve the safety of our communities and firefighters. The funding, awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go towards training, health programs, new safety equipment and emergency vehicles, and increased training for front line firefighters in communities. “With so many fire departments across the state being forced to get by on so little, this funding will make sure they have the equipment and training they need to be ready to respond every time that alarm bell sounds,” said Sen. Kerry. “I’m proud that our heroes will get the equipment and training they need. I will continue working to make sure this important assistance program remains available to the men and women who serve our communities,” said Sen. Brown. “Our fire and rescue personnel selflessly serve our communities and it is so important that they have the emergency equipment they need to do their jobs and stay safe. I congratulate the Haverhill Fire Department for their work in obtaining these federal funds which will help protect members of the Department as well as the City,” said Rep. Tsongas. ‪“This fire grant is the direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Richard Francis and the entire Brockton Fire Department. I am pleased that we were able to secure funding that will allow the Brockton Fire Department to purchase new thermal imaging devices and portable radios, giving our firefighters the equipment necessary to effectively respond to the needs of the Brockton community,” said Rep. Lynch. The following fire departments have received AFG funding: Melrose Fire Department $677,120 New Bedford Fire Department $635,392 Brockton Fire Department $438,455 Haverhill Fire Department $319,584 Onset Fire Department $168,639
03.20.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 31st Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by Tuesday, May 1, 2012. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Zoey Stanger of South Easton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
02.27.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Stephen F. Lynch and Niki Tsongas, today announced that firefighters and emergency response teams across Massachusetts will receive an additional $2,741,613 in federal funding to improve the safety of our communities and firefighters. The funding, awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go towards training, health programs, new safety equipment and emergency vehicles, and increased training for front line firefighters in communities. "With local budgets crunched, this investment helps make up some of the difference and makes sure that our firefighters are as safe as possible doing an unbelievably dangerous job. Equipment and training is the least we can provide for these heroes,” said Sen. Kerry. “Our fire chiefs and firefighters always tell me how important these grants are, and I’m proud that our local departments continue to receive this much needed support. Our firefighters deserve to have the equipment and training necessary to continue doing the heroic work of protecting our communities,” said Sen. Brown. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. I commend Chief George Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant. This funding is crucial in helping our firefighters keep the town of Bridgewater safe,” said Rep. Lynch. “Our fire and rescue personnel selflessly serve our communities and it is so important that they have the emergency equipment they need to do their jobs and stay safe. I congratulate the Lawrence Fire Department for their work in obtaining these funds which will be used to purchase a new aerial ladder truck and help protect the City,” said Rep. Tsongas. The following fire departments have received AFG funding: Halifax Fire Department $799,920 Lawrence Fire Department $648,000 Rockland Fire Department $630,090 Fairhaven Fire Department $175,426 Salisbury Fire Department $91,238 Watertown Fire Department $84,512 Bridgewater Fire Department $68,337 Dennis Fire Department $64,615 Kingston Fire Department $54,168 Beverly Fire Department $49,588 Peperell Fire Department $43,419 Westport Fire Department $17,100 Hanover Fire Department $15,200
02.07.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Richard E. Neal, John Tierney, and Stephen F. Lynch, today announced that firefighters and emergency response teams across Massachusetts will receive $1,785,303 in federal funding to improve the safety of our communities and firefighters. The funding, awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go towards training, health programs, new safety equipment and emergency vehicles, and increased training for front line firefighters in communities. "Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line every time that alarm bell sounds, and this investment helps them have the best equipment and training to keep them safe and ready to respond,” said Sen. Kerry. “I am thankful that our local fire departments will receive these critical resources,” said Sen. Brown. “I will continue working within the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to make sure the Assistance to Firefighters Grants are there for our heroic firefighters.” “The brave men and women who work in our local fire departments deserve to have the best training and equipment in order to do their jobs effectively. These important federal grants will help our firefighters and first responders keep cities and towns in Massachusetts safe,” said Rep. Neal. “Particularly in the wake of the tragic recent deaths of fighters in Peabody and Worcester, it is imperative that we ensure the safety of our local firefighters as they protect us. These funds will help support the brave efforts of our firefighters in Amesbury, Topsfield, and Nahant, and ensure they have the equipment they need to do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Rep. Tierney. “With our firefighters on the front lines every day, this funding is crucial,” said Rep. Lynch. “I commend Chief Kevin Murphy and the entire Braintree Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant. This funding will go a long way in helping our firefighters keep the town of Braintree safe.” The following fire departments have received AFG funding: Nahant Fire Department $717,250 Charlton Fire Department $268,361 Topsfield Fire Department $134,400 Lenox Fire Department $128,440 Rockland Fire & Rescue $115,487 Wilbraham Fire Department $99,944 Southern Berkshire Volunteer Ambulance/Great Barrington $85,861 Braintree Fire Department $72,847 Quincy Fire Department $68,800 Northampton Fire Department $49,500 Amesbury Fire Rescue $27,313
01.17.2012	BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along Congressmen John Olver and Stephen F. Lynch, today announced that firefighters and emergency response teams across Massachusetts will receive an additional $746,663 in federal funding to improve the safety of our communities and firefighters.The funding, awarded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), will go towards training, health programs, new safety equipment and emergency vehicles, and increased training for front line firefighters in communities.“The recent tragedies in Worcester and Peabody drove home the reality that firefighters put their lives on the line every single day. This investment is one necessary step to provide our firefighters with state of the art equipment and training to be as safe as possible,” said Sen. Kerry.“I’m thankful that Massachusetts has been awarded yet another round of grants that will provide our firefighters with important training and safety equipment,” said Sen. Brown. “Our heroes deserve to have these vital tools as they work to protect our communities. I will continue supporting the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program through my work on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.”“These federal funds allow our local fire departments to purchase the vehicles and equipment that they need to protect our communities and that they otherwise would not be able to afford,” said Rep. Olver.“Our firefighters are on the front lines every day, and they need the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, these federal fire grants are crucial,” said Rep. Lynch. “I commend Chief Richard Francis and the Brockton Fire Department and Chief Charles Doody and the Canton Fire Department for their hard work and diligence in securing these grants. The funding will go a long way in helping our firefighters keep their communities and themselves safe.”The following fire departments have received AFG funding:Freetown Fire Department$72,250Canton Fire Department$58,500Brockton Fire Department$280,000Tolland Volunteer Fire Department$260,538Norfolk Fire Department$62,125Town of Williamstown$14,250
01.04.2012	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that the Brockton Police Department/School Police Division in partnership with the Brockton Public Schools received a Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Grant of $489, 947. The federal grant, which was awarded through the Secure Our Schools (SOS) program, will assist Brockton in improving school safety and enhancing community policing efforts. “Ensuring that our children have a safe and stable environment in which to learn is essential,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “This grant will give Brockton a real boost as they provide students with a quality education and the tools to succeed. I congratulate Mayor Balzotti, Police Chief William Conlon and Michael Thomas, the Executive Director of Operations for the Brockton Public Schools, on securing this funding.” Brockton was one of 93 law enforcement agencies and municipalities nationwide to receive the highly competitive COPS SOS funding. Specifically, the grant will be used to help fund security equipment, technology and violence prevention resources including new interior and exterior locks, lighting and security cameras, security training for School Police Officers and anti-bullying and violence prevention curriculum. The funding represents half of the total cost for the planned security equipment, technology, and violence prevention resources. In addition, the Brockton School Police Department will partner with school administrators, teachers, students and parents to identify ways to prevent school violence and foster safe learning environments. The program will target Brockton High School, eight middle schools and three alternative schools in the Brockton public school district. A new panel, the Brockton Safe Schools Advisory Team, will meet periodically to monitor and assess the effectiveness of the school safety measures. “The most vital role of our public schools is to prepare our young people for the future. Achieving that goal is not possible without first creating a safe environment that is welcoming to students and their families,” said Mayor Linda M. Balzotti. “This funding will help provide technology and other resources to help bolster ongoing safety initiatives in our school buildings.” “The Brockton Police Department is very happy to have partnered with the Brockton Public Schools in successfully obtaining these very significant federal grant funds. This award will enable us to considerably upgrade the safety and security of our city’s schools. In today’s challenging economic times, these funds give us the opportunity to do now what otherwise might have been greatly difficult to accomplish,” Police Chief William Conlon said. “The safety and security of students and staff is always our first priority. The COPS grant will fund the purchase of the latest security technology like LobbyGuard, remote security cameras and lighting for schools across the city,” said Michael P. Thomas, Executive Director of Operations for the Brockton Public Schools. “Students and staff should feel safe and secure in their schools, so that they can focus on the most important thing – learning and teaching. This grant will help us to strengthen our schools and make them safe and supportive learning environments.”
11.03.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch and Mayor Joe Sullivan recently announced that the Monatiquot Riverwalk in Braintree has been selected to receive technical assistance from the National Park Service. The project aims to transform abandoned former industrial property into green space to connect commercial areas, transit, neighborhoods and recreation fields with the Riverwalk, a walking trail along the Monatiquot Riverwalk. Selected from a field of competitive requests, it was only one of two new projects accepted this year in Massachusetts.“I am very pleased that the Town of Braintree will receive National Park Service support for the Monatiquot Riverwalk. I congratulate Mayor Sullivan and the Town of Braintree for all their hard work in securing this technical assistance through such a competitive process,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said.“Once again Congressman Lynch has advocated strongly for Braintree,” said Mayor Sullivan. “This Riverwalk project will be a great recreational asset to our East Braintree area and protect our waterfront for generations to come.”The Town of Braintree, through the Mayor’s Office and the Planning and Community Development Department, is leading an effort to connect commercial areas, transit, neighborhoods and recreation fields with the Riverwalk, a walking trail along the Monatiquot River. In the past year, with leadership from Mayor Sullivan and assistance from the Community Design Resource Center of Boston, a conceptual plan for expanding and enhancing the trail was developed. Over the next year, the National Park Service’s River and Trails program staff will assist in trail design, interpretive signage and identifying funding sources. “The National Park Service is proud to support such capable partners and eager to help contribute to enhancing the Monatiquot Riverwalk in Braintree. We were especially impressed by all the support letters we received from the community,” said Charlie Tracy, Director of the NPS River & Trails program in Massachusetts. Through the Rivers, Trails, and Conservation Assistance Program, the National Park Service helps communities and neighborhoods develop new trails and greenways, and protect and manage open space and improve rivers. These projects are locally-led with National Park Service staff supporting community based conservation and recreation leaders. This year, 52 projects in the Northeast region were selected to receive technical assistance from the Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program. In 2011, program efforts helped over 175 communities leverage $1.65 million in funds for targeted projects.
10.18.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch introduced H.R. 3228, the Confidential Informant Accountability Act of 2011 on Friday, October 14th. The bill would increase Congressional oversight of law enforcement agencies’ use of confidential informants as well as strengthen provisions to allow victims to recover by extending the statute of limitations for tort claims arising out of criminal misconduct by a confidential informant.“While the use of confidential informants can be an effective crime-fighting tool, unfortunately, we have also seen the practice abused, innocent people killed, falsely imprisoned and families torn apart as a result,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “By enhancing Congressional oversight, hopefully, the past will not be repeated.”The bill would require federal law enforcement agencies to report to Congress, on a semiannual basis, all serious crimes committed by confidential informants while under the supervision of law enforcement agencies. Specific information about the crimes committed must be included in the report but the inclusion of individual informant names, control numbers, and other identifying information would be prohibited.The reports would be submitted to the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform, the House Judiciary Committee, the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, and the Senate Judiciary Committee, all committees that are tasked with the oversight of federal law enforcement agencies. Importantly, H.R. 3228 would build upon existing federal guidelines governing the use of confidential informants by ensuring that Congress will be able to conduct meaningful oversight of federal confidential informant programs and further limit the potential for system abuse.In addition, the bill would extend the statute of limitations for tort claims arising out of criminal misconduct by a confidential informant from two years to three years. Notably, this provision would also be retroactive to May 1, 1982, thereby allowing existing claims against the government to proceed. Recently, a federal appeals court issued a controversial ruling that barred wrongful death suits filed after the statute of limitations had expired, holding that the victims' families should have known that the FBI was part of a criminal enterprise.“These families have been the victims of government-assisted and government-enabled crime. They deserve justice. We cannot let this decision stand. We need to do everything we can to ensure that the government is held accountable, otherwise this will continue to happen,” added Congressman Lynch.In August of 2011, Congress Lynch requested that the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform hold a hearing to examine the use of confidential informants by the Department of Justice and specifically, the FBI. The hearing request, which is pending, stemmed from recent questions that have arisen regarding the FBI's use of confidential informants in New England.
10.17.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be visiting towns throughout the Ninth District to meet with constituents. Congressman Lynch will be available to take your questions and listen to your concerns. If you have any questions or concerns, please call the Boston Office at 617-428-2000. Saturday, October 22nd9:30-11:00: South Boston, South Boston Community Health Center, 409 West Broadway, First Floor Lobby Area11:30-1:00: Dorchester, Old Dorchester Post, 500 Gallivan Boulevard
10.07.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be visiting towns throughout the Ninth District to meet with constituents. The “Congress on Your Corner” meetings will take place outside town halls and senior centers and Congressman Lynch will be available to take your questions and listen to your concerns. Please note: all venues are wheelchair accessible and will be held rain or shine. Meetings will be moved indoors in the event of inclement weather. MONDAY, October 17th 9:00-10:30: Norwood, Town Common Gazebo, Nahatan and Washington Streets11:00-12:30: Dedham, Endicott Estate, 656 East Street1:00-2:30: West Roxbury, Roche Family Community Center, 1716 Centre StreetTUESDAY, October 18th9:00-10:30: Brockton, Brockton City Hall Amphitheatre, 45 School Street11:00-12:30: Braintree, Braintree Department of Elder Affairs, 71 Cleveland Avenue1:00-2:30: Milton, Milton Town Hall, 525 Canton AvenueWEDNESDAY, October 19th9:00-10:30: Whitman, Town of Whitman Park, Corner of Park and Whitman Avenues11:00-12:30: Holbrook, Holbrook Council on Aging, 9 Jewel Road1:00-2:30: Avon, Avon Town Hall, 65 East Main StreetTHURSDAY, October 20th10:00-11:30: Westwood, Westwood Council on Aging, 60 Nahatan Street12:00-1:30: Walpole, Walpole Town Common Gazebo, Main Street2:00-3:30: Canton, Canton Town Hall, 801 Washington St.FRIDAY, October 21st9:00-10:30: Bridgewater, Academy Building, 66 Central Square11:00-12:30: Stoughton, Stoughton Council on Aging, 110 Rockland Street1:00-2:30: Needham, Needham Free Public Library, 1139 Highland AvenueIf you have any questions or concerns, please call the Boston Office at 617-428-2000.
09.21.2011	“The Innovate to Deliver Act” Encourages New Lines of Business, Creates Chief Innovation Officer, and Reforms Benefits Pre-payment StructureWashington, DC - Today, Ranking Members Elijah E. Cummings and Stephen Lynch introduced comprehensive legislation to address the Postal Service’s current financial challenges and make innovative structural changes to enable it to continue to deliver for decades to come.“Our legislation will fundamentally change the Postal Service’s business model so it can thrive in a changing marketplace,” Cummings said. “Unlike other proposals that merely slash services, personnel, and facilities, our bill allows the Postal Service to return to profitability while honoring commitments to workers and preserving quality service.”“We, as Democrats, realize that changes are necessary and we have embraced that in this legislation,” Lynch said. “However, we also insist that there are responsible ways to reform the Postal Service while protecting the interests of postal customers, employees and retirees. This legislation is part of the comprehensive reform that the Postal Service needs in order to improve its long-term financial viability without sacrificing customer service or placing undue burden on our dedicated postal employees.” H.R. 2967, the Innovate to Deliver Act of 2011 (I2D), implements reforms in three core areas: profitability, personnel, and performance.Highlights of the I2D Act include:• It authorizes the Postal Service to enter into new lines of business that leverage its unique advantages, such as check-cashing, facility leasing, and retail services; • It creates a new Chief Innovation Officer to drive the development of these innovative products and services, as well as new core mailing services; • It corrects the overpayments made by the Postal Service to its retirement system, and it allows the right-sizing of its workforce by enabling the Postal Service to provide incentives for voluntary separation and early retirement; • It streamlines procedures to ensure that the Postal Service’s excellent performance record is preserved and improved; and• It requires enhanced reporting to Congress and the Postal Regulatory Commission on the Postal Service’s plans for right-sizing its network by closing and suspending retail and mail processing facilities.Many of the bill’s provisions have the support of key stakeholders, such as the Postal Service leadership, postal unions, and the Administration.Last week, Cummings, Lynch, and five other Members of Congress introduced a bill to extend by twelve weeks a Postal Service payment of $5.5 billion to its retiree health fund, thereby avoiding default and creating additional time for bipartisan negotiations. A shorter, six-week extension was included in the continuing resolution unveiled last week to fund the government’s operations into the fall.For more specifics on Cummings’s bill, click here.
09.12.2011	Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, joined by Representatives Norm Dicks, Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee, Stephen F. Lynch, José Serrano, Gerald Connolly, Eleanor Holmes Norton and Danny K. Davis introduced legislation today to provide the U.S. Postal Service a 90-day extension on its pre-payment to the retired employee health benefit fund. “The Postal Service is one of our nation’s most trusted and reliable institutions,” said Cummings. “This short-term measure would give Congress an additional three months to consider ways to ensure that the Postal Service is profitable and competitive in the 21st century economy.”The bill, H.R. 2884, would postpone by 90 days a $5.5 billion prepayment to the Postal Service’s retiree health benefits fund due September 30. This advance payment is required under the 2006 Postal Accountability Enhancement Act, which mandated that the Postal Service make accelerated annual payments to fully fund its anticipated retiree health care costs by 2016. This mandate is inconsistent with private sector policy, where companies typically prepay 70% to 80% of future retiree health care costs. The Postal Service has already paid more than $42 billion to the U.S. Treasury toward its employees’ future healthcare costs. “The truth is that the Postal Service is facing its financial challenges today in part because Congress changed the law in 2006, in a way that places extremely burdensome pre-funded health care requirements on the USPS that no other agency or organization must meet,” said Representative Lynch. “This measure will ensure that the Postal Service and Congress have additional time to work together on comprehensive legislation to improve the Postal Service’s long-term viability.” Temporarily suspending this prepayment will not affect the health care provided to retirees and will not in any way disrupt the daily delivery of mail or the operations of post offices or mail processing facilities. It would simply extend by three months the due date for the prepayment while Congress and the Administration continue to consider broader reforms. Given time constraints in considering the legislation as a stand alone bill, the forthcoming continuing resolution also offers a suitable option for moving this legislation forward. In the coming weeks, Cummings and other Members will introduce legislation to help the Postal Service return to profitability through innovative solutions designed to increase revenue and cut costs. A variety of provisions are being considered, including measures to allow the Postal Service to enter into new lines of business, lease its properties, revise the current Postal Service retiree benefits payment schedules, and right-size its workforce. On September 6, Cummings and Lynch sent a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe strongly opposing proposals to abrogate provisions of collective bargaining agreements with unions representing Postal Service employees, which have already made significant pay and benefits concessions.
08.31.2011	On Sunday, September 18th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students in the Ninth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies.Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. • United States Military Academy • United States Naval Academy• United States Air Force Academy• United States Merchant Marine Academy • United States Coast Guard AcademyAll students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend.WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy DayWHEN: Sunday, September 18th TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PMWHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, BraintreeCONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000
08.30.2011	Senator John Kerry and Representatives Edward Markey, Stephen F. Lynch, Jim McGovern, Niki Tsongas, Michael Capuano, John Olver and William Keating, today announced that 38 Massachusetts organizations will receive over $4.5 million in federal funding through the Drug Free Communities Support Program (DFC) to help curb youth substance use in local communities across the state.“Drugs threaten our kids, but these organizations are on the frontlines working with kids and whole neighborhoods to fight back and this investment saves lives and money in the long run,” said Sen. Kerry. “I am pleased that this critical federal funding will support vital substance abuse prevention efforts in the communities of the 7th District. Drug and alcohol abuse can derail a promising future, deny a student educational opportunities, and destroy families. Temptations come at kids from every angle, with the most dangerous drugs sometimes filling prescription bottles in the family’s bathroom cabinet. Funding provided by the Drug Free Communities program combines substance abuse education with stepped-up enforcement efforts to provide Massachusetts kids a roadmap for a clean and healthy future,” said Rep. Markey. “Substance abuse can have a devastating impact on our communities but these organizations are fighting back and making a real difference for our young people. I applaud these organizations for all of their good work and am pleased to see that these grants will help them continue their outreach,” said Rep. Lynch.“I’m very pleased that Fall River will receive these federal funds. We must continue to do all we can to prevent substance abuse among our youth,” said Rep. McGovern.“These federal funds awarded to Lowell Community Health Center and Wayland Public Schools will promote substance abuse prevention among teens and area youths. Illegal use of drugs and alcohol at an early age can lead to a lifetime of dependence and tragedy which is why federal support of these local community prevention efforts is so critical,” said Rep. Tsongas.“This federal funding will allow many local organizations to continue their great work reducing substance abuse in our young people. The Chelsea and Allston-Brighton organizations have already assisted so many through education and by providing resources to their communities, and these funds will help both organizations weather uncertain financial times,’ said Rep. Capuano.“These organizations work hard to create drug-free communities and provide young people with knowledge about drugs and alternatives to drug use. In these difficult economic times, it is important that we continue to make smart investments for our children’s futures,” said Rep. Olver.“Almost two people a day die from drug overdoses in Massachusetts. That number is staggering. Substance abuse has long been a problem, and each day it robs more and more young people of their futures. These funds will help to give them that future back. I also want to take a moment to mention the commitment of many local leaders in communities throughout the state who have helped those struggling with substance abuse. The funds provided by this grant are meaningless without the selfless and tireless dedication of these leaders,” said Rep. Keating.The DFC program was created in 1997 with the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997. It is directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy in partnership with the Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration.The following organizations will receive funding:1st Congressional DistrictCommunities That Care (Greenfield)$75,000Coalition for Teens (Greenfield)$100,000Gardner Community Action Team (Fitchburg)$125,000Southern Berkshire Youth Coalition$125,000Holyoke Youth Taskforce$125,000Pittsfield Prevention Partnership Community $100,000Gill-Montague Community-School Partnership$125,0002nd Congressional DistrictNorthampton Prevention Council$125,000Mason Square Coalition (Springfield)$125,000Strategic Planning Initiative for Families and Youth (Northampton)$100,0003rd Congressional DistrictB.O.L.D. Coalition of Greater Fall River$125,0004th Congressional DistrictBrookline Coalition Against Substance Abuse$124,928Middleboro Youth Advocates $100,0005th Congressional DistrictLowell Roundtable on Substance Abuse Prevention$125,000Wayland Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition$125,0006th Congressional DistrictDanversCARES Prevention Council $199,943Healthy Gloucester Collaborative$125,000Healthy Peabody Collaborative$125,000Communities That Care Lynn$125,000Mayor’s Task Force to Reduce Substance Abuse (Newburyport)$125,000Reading Coalition Against Substance Abuse$99,9927th Congressional DistrictNatick Together2$125,000Melrose Substance Abuse Prevention Council$125,000Arlington Youth Health & Safety Coalition$125,000Medford Matters$100,000Everett Community Health Improvement Part. SA Coalition$125,0008th Congressional DistrictAllston-Brighton Substance Abuse Task Force$125,000Chelsea Mobilizing for Change on Alcohol and Other Drugs$125,0009th Congressional DistrictOrganizing Against Substance Abuse in Stoughton$125,000Avon Coalition for Every Student$125,000Dorchester Substance Abuse Coalition$100,000Needham Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Council$125,000South Boston Families Advocating Neighborhood Strength $125,00010th Congressional DistrictWeymouth Youth Coalition$125,000The Dukes County Health Council Youth Task Force (Edgartown)$125,000Falmouth Substance Abuse Commission $125,000Alliance for Substance Abuse Prevention, Inc. (Nantucket)$125,000Impact Quincy$125,000
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Barney Frank today released a letter, signed by every Member of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, calling on the president of Moody’s Investors Service to strongly reconsider the company’s announcement that it would review the possible downgrade of U.S. municipalities and other institutions due to the indirect effects of the possible downgrade of US government bonds.Those signing were Senator John Kerry, Senator Scott Brown, Congressman Barney Frank, Congressman Ed Markey, Congressman Michael Capuano, Congressman James McGovern, Congressman Richard Neal, Congressman John Tierney, Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, Congressman Stephen Lynch, Congressman John Olver, and Congressman Bill Keating.A number of Massachusetts communities were listed in the documents which accompanied the Moody’s announcement, including Newton, Brookline, Lexington, Concord, Wellesley, Wayland, Hingham, Dover and others. In all, Moody’s lists 162 local governments in 31 states.In their joint letter, the Members write that there is “no apparent basis” for the announcement by the credit-rating agency, and they call on Moody’s to immediately give the municipalities an opportunity to show that they can meet their obligations and thus maintain their Aaa rating.To view the letter, please click here.
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Barney Frank today released a letter, signed by every Member of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, calling on the president of Moody’s Investors Service to strongly reconsider the company’s announcement that it would review the possible downgrade of U.S. municipalities and other institutions due to the indirect effects of the possible downgrade of US government bonds.Those signing were Senator John Kerry, Senator Scott Brown, Congressman Barney Frank, Congressman Ed Markey, Congressman Michael Capuano, Congressman James McGovern, Congressman Richard Neal, Congressman John Tierney, Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, Congressman Stephen Lynch, Congressman John Olver, and Congressman Bill Keating.A number of Massachusetts communities were listed in the documents which accompanied the Moody’s announcement, including Newton, Brookline, Lexington, Concord, Wellesley, Wayland, Hingham, Dover and others. In all, Moody’s lists 162 local governments in 31 states.In their joint letter, the Members write that there is “no apparent basis” for the announcement by the credit-rating agency, and they call on Moody’s to immediately give the municipalities an opportunity to show that they can meet their obligations and thus maintain their Aaa rating.
07.28.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will hold a telephone town hall forum tomorrow, Friday, July 29th, to discuss the current debt ceiling negotiations. In recent days, Congressman Lynch’s Boston, Brockton and D.C. offices have seen a major increase in calls and e-mails from constituents regarding the debt limit and budget issues. Many of the calls have been from senior citizens concerned about Social Security and Medicare. Tomorrow, 50,000 seniors throughout the Ninth District will receive a phone call to participate in the live telephone town hall. Congressman Lynch will take participants’ questions live throughout the event.“Many of the calls we have received have come from seniors, worried about how a possible default will impact Social Security and Medicare. I’ve arranged this telephone town hall meeting to update seniors on the latest developments in the debt ceiling negotiations and address any concerns they may have,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said.
07.28.2011	I want to thank everyone who has taken the time recently to e-mail, call or post on my official Facebook page about the debt ceiling. The ongoing debate is a very serious issue that, rightly, has many Americans extremely concerned. President Obama and House and Senate leaders continue negotiations in Washington but because some Republicans on the far right, including many Tea Party members, have refused to consider any reasonable compromise, time is now growing short. If we do not reach a deal by August 2nd, our nation would no longer have enough money to pay all of its bills. A U.S. default on its debt obligations would result in a downgrading of our nation's credit rating and increase the cost of all future government borrowing.Since many countries around the globe have purchased U.S. treasuries as a safe investment, a default on those bonds could also disrupt the global economy and world markets. If we do not come to an agreement on raising the debt limit, a debt obligation suspension period would ensue and the U.S. Treasury Department would have to make tough choices on which of our debt obligations would be paid and those that would remain outstanding.Throughout this debate, I have supported a balanced approach to deficit reduction. For example, I have voted to reduce non-combat related funding for the defense department by over $300 billion. I have also supported reinstating the tax rates which were in place during the Clinton administration, which would have allowed a small increase in taxes for individuals earning more than $250,000 and couples making over $500,000.There is no doubt that difficult decisions need to be made regarding our country’s spending. However, these decisions should be made with an eye towards shared sacrifice and basic fairness. We cannot balance our budget on the backs of our seniors and children alone. Several weeks ago, I voted to increase the debt limit in order to gain additional time to structure a balanced schedule of spending reductions and revenue increases in a way that does not jeopardize basic benefits such as Social Security and Medicare. However, in spite of the support of 97 Democrats, that measure failed, with 236 Republicans and all Tea Party members opposed.The House of Representatives is now scheduled to vote on Speaker Boehner’s plan later tonight. I cannot support this plan for three reasons. First, Speaker Boehner’s plan places enormous burdens on senior citizens and requires massive cuts to Social Security and Medicare. We cannot ask our senior citizens to bear all of the burden.Secondly, Speaker Boehner’s plan would allow millionaires, oil companies and hedge fund managers to escape all responsibility and avoid any sacrifice. This is not right. This is a national problem and we should face it as nation with shared sacrifice.Thirdly, the Boehner plan would not prevent a downgrading of our credit rating, which is the most damaging aspect of this crisis. The Boehner plan would continue the current turmoil and uncertainty in domestic and global markets and require us to revisit this very same issue in a few months, essentially kicking the can down the road once again. In order to stabilize our economy and prevent a downgrade of our country’s credit rating, we need a long-term solution. Going forward, I will continue to push for serious, balanced approaches to our deficit and debt ceiling problems. It is my sincere hope that together, President Obama and the House and Senate will be able to reach a compromise solution in time to avoid defaulting on our debt.I know that many of you may be concerned about the debt ceiling debate and may have questions about how this may affect you and your family. Please do not hesitate to call my Boston Office at 617-428-2000, my Brockton Office at 508-586-5555 or my Washington D.C. Office at 202-225-8273.On a personal note, it remains a tremendous honor and privilege for me to serve the families of the Ninth Congressional District.Thank you.
07.05.2011	Senators John F. Kerry and Scott Brown and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced that the South Norfolk County Arc (SNCARC) has been awarded a Fire Prevention and Safety Grant of $52,780 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. These federal funds will support the expansion of the Autism and Law Enforcement Education Coalition (ALEC) which provides first responders with the training necessary to recognize and communicate with adults and children with Autism Spectrum Disorders.“This investment will help Captain Cannata and his team of first responders keep our communities safe,” said Senator Kerry.“Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the tools they need to stay safe in their dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive resources that will allow them to better carry out their work,” Senator Brown said. Congressman Lynch said, “Because of the good work of Westwood Fire Captain Bill Cannata and all of those at the ALEC Program, our first responders are getting the training they need to respond effectively to any situation, keeping families and communities safe. I commend Captain Cannata, SNCARC and the ALEC Program for all the work they do and congratulate them on the expansion of such a vital program.” Founded in 2003, the ALEC program began as a group of concerned parents and first responders who recognized a growing need for training that assisted firefighters, law enforcement and EMTs to effectively respond to situations involving individuals with autism. South Norfolk County Arc and the Norfolk County District Attorney’s Office, under the guidance of Congressman William Keating, spearheaded this collaborative effort. ALEC now trains first responders statewide and throughout New England. With the help of this Fire Prevention and Safety Grant, the ALEC Program will expand into an additional 14 states. Captain Bill Cannata, Project Coordinator of the ALEC Program said, "With the success of the ALEC Program for the fire service in the state of Massachusetts, ALEC saw the opportunity to expand this training with the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant. Fire departments and fire service agencies from other states are looking forward to ALEC instructors training and expanding the program in their states. The grant will also help ALEC to continue training in Massachusetts."
06.22.2011	Washington, DC – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings and Stephen F. Lynch, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and Labor Policy, issued the following statement on the U.S. Postal Service’s decision to suspend its employer’s contributions for the defined benefit portion of the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).“Today, the Postal Service announced its intention of suspending its payments to the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) to address its budgetary shortfalls. This emergency measure only underscores the immediacy of the agency’s financial situation and the need for legislative action. Given the seriousness of this matter, we urge the Department of Justice to take a swift but thorough examination of this proposed move and, additionally, we ask that the Postal Service ensure that any decision will not adversely impact its current retirees or active employees. While a suspension of FERS payments may help now, the Postal Service will be unlikely to regain financial stability absent legislative action. H.R. 1351 would correct the Postal Service’s overpayment to the federal government of both its Civil Service Retirement System and Federal Employee Retirement System obligations, which is collectively in the range of $60 to $80 billion, providing the Postal Service with an opportunity to find long-term solutions. In light of today’s announcement, we call on our Republican colleagues on the Oversight Committee to give this legislation prompt consideration.”
05.20.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) recently announced that Zoey Stanger of South Easton has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery”, in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year.This year, 28 young artists from across the Ninth Congressional District submitted artwork. Entries included photographs, paintings, pencil sketchings and collages, among other mediums. In the end, the judges selected a pencil drawing entitled “Night on the Town” by Zoey Stanger, a senior at Oliver Ames High School in Easton. The drawing highlighted advanced techniques of shading and was singularly creative. Zoey’s artwork has been flown to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “Zoey Stanger is a truly gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch. “Her art work is a reflection of her talent and hard work as well as the superb instruction of Kristen Shea, her art teacher at Oliver Ames High School. I hope that Zoey’s success will encourage other students from Easton and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.”Congressman Lynch noted that the competition was especially tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer.Congressman Lynch said, “It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
05.03.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will hold a series of town hall forums throughout the Ninth Congressional District during May. If you have questions, please call Congressman Lynch’s Boston Office at 617-428-2000 or the Brockton Office at 508-586-5555. Monday, May 16th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Braintree Department of Elder Affairs71 Cleveland AvenueBraintree, MATuesday, May 17th 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.Bridgewater State UniversityJohn J. Moakley Center100 Burrill AvenueBridgewater, MAThursday, May 19th 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.Curry CollegeAlumni Recreation Center1071 Blue Hill AvenueMilton, MAFriday, May 20th 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Dedham Community Theatre580 High StreetDedham, MAFriday May 20th 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.Needham Free Public LibraryCommunity Room1139 Highland AvenueNeedham, MA Please Note: All venues are wheelchair accessible. If you have any questions or concerns, please call the Boston Office at 617-428-2000.
05.02.2011	"A mass murderer has been brought to justice and a threat to innocent American civilians has been eliminated. Our thanks and appreciation go out to the Navy Seals, our intelligence community and our brave men and women in uniform who once again have given us great reason to be proud of their courageous service. While the war on terror continues, hopefully, this will provide some measure of closure and peace for the 9/11 families."
03.17.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 30th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library.The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by Wednesday, May 4, 2011. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Araba Adjei-Koranteng. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://lynch.house.gov, for more information on the competition. Additional information about the competition and guidelines can also be found at https://www.house.gov/house/ArtGuidelines.shtml“I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Regan Tattersfield of South Easton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
02.28.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Bryan Glick for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Military Academy. Bryan, the son of James and Karen, is a senior at Canton High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Bryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Bryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Bryan Glick was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Bryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Karen. The Glick family, the town of Canton, and the entire state should be proud of Bryan in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.28.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Lance Corporal Michael Hollar for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Lance Corporal Hollar, the son of Michelle Shanks and Leighton Hollar, is a graduate of Brockton High School and currently serves as a Lance Corporal in the United States Marine Corps.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Lance Corporal Hollar was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High and by his commanding officers in the Marines. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Lance Corporal Hollar are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Lance Corporal Hollar, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Lance Corporal Hollar stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Michelle and Leighton. The Hollar family, the city of Brockton and the entire state should be proud of Lance Corporal Hollar in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kyle Cachopa for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Kyle, the son of David and Elizabeth, is a freshman at the U.S. Military Academy Prep School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Kyle was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the U.S. Military Academy Prep and Coyle and Cassidy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Kyle are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kyle Cachopa, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Kyle stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, David and Elizabeth. The Cachopa family, the town of Bridgewater and the entire state should be proud of Kyle in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Daniel O’Hear for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Daniel, the son of Thomas and Noreen, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Daniel was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Catholic Memorial. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Daniel are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Daniel O’Hear was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. Daniel stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Thomas and Noreen. The O’Hear family, the town of Walpole, and the entire state should be proud of Daniel in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Kain for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Joseph, the son of Joseph and Carolyn, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Catholic Memorial. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph Kain was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Joseph and Carolyn. The Kain family, Dorchester, and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.25.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Padraig O’Brien for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Padraig, the son of Lawrence and Nancy O’Brien, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Padraig was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at BC High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Padraig are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Padraig O’Brien was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. Padraig stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Lawrence and Nancy. The O’Brien family, Roslindale, and the entire state should be proud of Padraig in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.19.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Luke Barkowski for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. Luke, the son of Gary and Katherine, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Luke was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at BC High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Luke are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Luke Barkowski was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Luke stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Gary and Katherine. The Barkowski family, Dorchester, and the entire state should be proud of Luke in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.19.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Edward Glinski for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Edward, the son of Dr. Edward Glinski and Denise Kenneally, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Edward was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at BC High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Edward are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Edward Glinski was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S Naval, U.S. Military and U.S. Air Force Academies. Edward stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Edward and Denise. The Glinksi family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Edward in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.19.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Robert Powell, Jr. for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Robert, the son of Robert, Sr. and Carolyn, is a senior at the Roxbury Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Robert was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Roxbury Latin. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Robert are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Robert Powell, Jr. was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Robert stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert, Sr. and Carolyn. The Powell family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Robert in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.19.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christian Mowles for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. Christian, the son of Stephen and Lucille, is a senior at Catholic Memorial High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Christian was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Catholic Memorial. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Christian are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christian Mowles was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy. Christian stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Stephen and Lucille. The Mowles family, the town of Dedham, and the entire state should be proud of Christian in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.19.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Ryan Hanifin for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Ryan, the son of Thomas and Susan, is a senior at Boston College High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Ryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at BC High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Ryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Ryan Hanifin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Ryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Thomas and Susan. The Hanifin family, the town of Walpole, and the entire state should be proud of Ryan in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.18.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) recently returned from a Congressional Delegation to Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Joining Congressman Lynch were Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA), Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID), and Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY). The Delegation met with various military and government officials regarding the fight against terrorism and continued ongoing oversight efforts into the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As Co-Chair of the bipartisan on Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, Congressman Lynch specifically focused on efforts to block terrorist financing in the Middle East. While in Kabul, Delegation Members discussed military operations and efforts to train Afghan soldiers with Ambassador Karl Eikenberry, the U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan and met with the Afghan Interior Minister, General Bismillah Khan Mohammadi. In addition, Congressman Lynch met with several Afghan officials concerning the ongoing investigation into Kabul Bank, which nearly collapsed in September due to widespread fraud and corruption.“The allegations of corruption in the Karzai government continue to be extremely troubling. Our committee, the FBI and the Justice Department are continuing our investigation. I have come to believe that the endemic corruption at the highest levels of the Afghan government is a larger threat to democracy than the Taliban,” Congressman Lynch said. Congressman Lynch also attended a naturalization ceremony in Kabul for 97 Marines and service members and met with Massachusetts-based armed forces units and Embassy staff.“Once again, I cannot say or do enough to thank our brave men and women serving overseas,” Lynch added. “I am continually struck and humbled by their amazing work on behalf of our country.”In Pakistan, the Delegation held separate meetings with Pakistani Prime Minister, Syed Yousaf Taza Gilani, President Asif Ali Zadari and Army Chief of Staff, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Discussions included U.S.-Pakistani relations and the war on terrorism. Congressman Lynch also personally appealed to the Pakistani President and Prime Minister for the release of Raymond Davis, a U.S. embassy worker who is accused of killing two Pakistani men who were trying to rob him at gunpoint and is being held in Lahore in violation of international law governing diplomatic immunity.Congressman Lynch and other members of the Delegation also travelled to Iraq where they met with the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, which heads oversight of Iraqi reconstruction, and toured the NATO Training Mission for Iraq. Lynch took time to meet with service men and women stationed in Iraq as well as Embassy staff. Current troop levels are now at about 48,000, down from a peak deployment of over 165,000 in 2008. By December 2011, troop levels are expected to be down to 25,000.Lynch added, “The security situation in Iraq continues to improve. Since my first trip to Iraq in 2003, conditions on the ground have changed dramatically. The continual drawdown of our troops is very encouraging.”
02.14.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kevin Mandeville for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Kevin, the son of James and Sheila, is a senior at Bristol-Plymouth Regional Technical School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Kevin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Bristol-Plymouth. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Kevin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kevin was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Kevin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Sheila. The Mandeville family, the town of Bridgewater, and the entire state should be proud of Kevin in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.14.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jeffrey Johnston for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Jeffrey, the son of Sherrianne and Kenneth, is a freshman at Norwich University.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Jeffrey was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Norwich and Stoughton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jeffrey are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jeffrey Johnston was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Jeffrey stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Sherrianne and Kenneth. The Johnston family, the town of Stoughton and the entire state should be proud of Jeffrey in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.14.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Scott MacKinnon for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Scott, the son of Rod and Joan, is a senior at Boston Collegiate Charter School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Scott was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Collegiate. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Scott are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Scott MacKinnon was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Scott stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Rod and Joan. The MacKinnon family, Dorchester, and the entire state should be proud of Scott in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John Albani, Jr. for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. John, the son of Jack and Adrienne, is a senior at Norfolk County Agricultural High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Norfolk County Agricultural High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John Albani, Jr. was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jack and Adrienne. The Albani family, the town of Dedham, and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kevin Sennott for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. Kevin, the son of Peter and Mary, is a senior at Westwood High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Kevin was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Westwood High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Kevin are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kevin Sennott was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Kevin stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Peter and Mary. The Sennott family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Kevin in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Mac Lalor for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Mac, the son of Mike and Leanne, is a graduate of St. Sebastian’s School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Maclean was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Mac are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Mac Lalor was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Mac stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mike and Leanne. The Lalor family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Mac in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Robert Byrne for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Robert, the son of Robert and Rachel, is a junior at Saint Michael’s College.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Robert was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Saint Michael’s and Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Robert are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Robert Byrne was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Robert stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Rachel. The Byrne family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Robert in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Samuel Smith for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Samuel, the son of Richard and Noreen, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Samuel was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Samuel are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Samuel was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Samuel stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Noreen. The Smith family, the town of Whitman, and the entire state should be proud of Samuel in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Robert Prindall for appointment to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the United States Military Academy. Robert, the son of Dan and Susan, is a senior at Walpole High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Robert was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Walpole High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Robert are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Robert Prindall was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S Naval, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Military Academies. Robert stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Dan and Susan. The Prindall family, the town of Walpole, and the entire state should be proud of Robert in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
02.11.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Peter Bettinelli for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Peter, the son of John and Patricia, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School.As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.”“Peter was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Peter are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch.Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Peter Bettinelli was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates.Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Peter stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Patricia. The Bettinelli family, the town of Canton, and the entire state should be proud of Peter in this achievement.”Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000.
01.26.2011	Prescription drug abuse continues to be a serious issue for families and communities across the nation and, as part of their efforts to fight this growing epidemic, U.S. Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Stephen Lynch (MA-09) are re-establishing the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The goal of the caucus is to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. “Prescription drug abuse is on the rise, threatening the lives of more and more of our young people every day. From 2008 to 2009, the non-medical use of prescription drugs increased by an alarming 12 percent. This is a very disturbing statistic that illustrates how serious and dangerous this is to Americans, especially our children,” said Bono Mack. “Far too many Americans have the misconception that prescription drugs are ‘safer’ because they’re prescribed by a doctor, but the fact is that prescription drugs, when abused, can be just as addictive and as deadly as street drugs. I am proud to launch this Caucus with Representatives Rogers and Lynch who share my passion and dedication to ending this cycle of abuse that is destroying the lives and futures of too many of our young people.”“For years, my congressional district in Appalachian Kentucky has been ground zero for prescription drug abuse, and I’ve witnessed first-hand the devastation wrought by this epidemic. As this problem has magnified in scope and intensity, cross-cutting geographical and socio-economic boundaries, policy-makers around the country are recognizing that many of their constituents have also fallen prey to this scourge,” stated Rogers. “I believe this caucus is vital to uniting law-makers and other interested parties to ensure that we’re employing every resource in our arsenal to combat abuse. State legislation, treatment programs, drug courts, law enforcement, monitoring programs, educational programs – all these components will play a role in slowing the rising tide, and eventually eliminating abuse altogether. I’m proud to stand with Congresswoman Bono Mack and Congressman Lynch as we work to tackle prescription drug abuse from the bottom-up and the top-down.”“Prescription drug abuse continues to have a devastating effect on communities across the country,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “I look forward to joining my colleagues to continue the work of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in the 112th Congress. Together, we can work towards long-term policy solutions and help the many families who have been impacted by this epidemic.”According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA), the number of emergency room visits from prescription drug abuse has nearly doubled in America over the last five years. Equally troubling, there has been a staggering 400 percent increase over the past decade in the number of hospital admissions for prescription drug abuse. Clearly, this is a growing and alarming trend which is impacting people of all ages, but it creates special problems for our children and their families.The Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse has vowed to raise awareness of the problem nationwide and to help develop effective policy solutions.
01.21.2011	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-9) was named Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and Labor Policy for the 112th Congress. The announcement was made yesterday by the Committee’s Ranking Member, Representative Elijah Cummings (MD-7). As Ranking Member, Lynch will serve as the leading Democrat and have a pivotal role on matters affecting the federal work force, the future of the United States Postal Service and national labor policy. The Subcommittee is part of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the main investigative committee of the House of Representatives.“From restoring the financial stability of the Postal Service to overseeing national labor policy, this Subcommittee has jurisdiction over some very urgent matters, and I am eager to tackle those issues in the 112th congress,” Subcommittee Ranking Member Stephen Lynch said. “I am thankful for this opportunity and look forward to working with Ranking Member Cummings and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on these important oversight issues.” “I am very pleased to have Stephen Lynch as the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and Labor Policy,” said Cummings. “During a time when our government spending and services must be as efficient and effective as possible, Congressman Lynch brings an incredible blue-collar work ethic to a Subcommittee which will require a consistent, unwavering effort. He not only has experience as a legislator, but as a worker who knows the feeling of punching a time clock every day. I know he will ensure that our nation continues to deliver a good day’s pay and demand a good day of work. As well, his knowledge of the Postal Service will be irreplaceable during the ongoing debate on the services offered and the continuing economic stability of that organization. I look forward to working with Congressman Lynch this session, and to learning from his experiences.”Congressman Lynch has been a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee since he was elected to Congress in 2001. In addition to serving as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service and Labor Policy, Congressman Lynch also serves on the Subcommittee of National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations and the Subcommittee on Technology, Information Policy, Intergovernmental Relations and Procurement Reform. Congressman Lynch will continue to serve as a member of the Committee on Financial Services.
01.13.2011	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Ninth Congressional District in the month of January. Below is a list of upcoming office hours.Congressman Lynch maintains two full-time District Offices in Boston and Brockton, as well as his office in Washington, DC. Residents of the 9th District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices.If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000.Easton- Tuesday, January 18th Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis9:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m.Easton Town HallMary Connolly Meeting Room, 2nd Floor136 Elm Street, EastonStoughton- Tuesday, January 18th Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis12:00 p.m.-2:00 p.m.Stoughton Town HallFitzpatrick Room, 1st Floor10 Pearl Street, StoughtonStoughtonMedfield – Tuesday, January 18th Open Office Hours with Jeff Mahoney10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Medfield Town HallFirst Floor Conference Room459 Main Street, MedfieldWestwood- Tuesday, January 18th Open Office Hours with Jeff Mahoney2:00 -4:00 p.m.Westwood Town HallSelectman’s Meeting Room580 High Street, WestwoodWalpole – Wednesday, January 19th Open Office Hours with Meghan Aldridge9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Walpole Town HallConference Room 116135 School Street, WalpoleHolbrook – Wednesday, January 19th Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Holbrook Town HallVeteran’s Agent Office 50 N. Franklin Street, HolbrookBraintree – Wednesday, January 19th Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m.Braintree Town HallJohnson Memorial Chambers, 2nd Floor 1 John F. Kennedy Memorial Drive, BraintreeNeedham- Thursday, January 20th Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Needham Town HallChestnut Room, 1st Floor500 Dedham Avenue, NeedhamSouth Boston- Thursday, January 20th Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis12:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m.South Boston Community Health Center386 West Broadway, 2nd Floor Community RoomSouth BostonCanton- Thursday, January 20th Open Office Hours with Jeff Mahoney2:00 – 4:00 p.m.Canton Town HallSalah Meeting Room801 Washington Street, CantonBridgewater- Monday, January 24th Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Academy BuildingIafrate Conference Building66 Central Square, BridgewaterWest Bridgewater- Monday, January 24th Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.West Bridgewater Town HallFirst Floor Conference Room65 N. Main Street, West BridgewaterMilton- Tuesday, January 25th Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto 9:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m.Milton Town HallSmall Conference Room 525 Canton Avenue, MiltonRandolph – Tuesday, January 25th Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.Randolph Town HallLincoln Room41 South Main Street, RandolphDedham- Wednesday, January 26th Open Office Hours with Jeff Mahoney10:00 a.m.- 12:00 p.m.Dedham Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room26 Bryant Street, DedhamNorwood- Wednesday, January 26th Open Office Hours with Jeff Mahoney 2:00-4:00 p.m.Norwood Town HallRoom 24, Finance Commission Meeting Room566 Washington Street, Norwood Hanson- Wednesday, January 26th Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.Hanson Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room542 Liberty Street, HansonWhitman- Wednesday, January 26th Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.Whitman Town Hall Selectman’s Meeting Room54 South Avenue, WhitmanEast Bridgewater- Thursday, January 27th Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m.East Bridgewater Town HallConference Room175 Central Street, East BridgewaterAvon- Thursday, January 27th Open Office Hours with Dan Lynch 10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.Avon Town Hall65 East Main Street, AvonWest Roxbury – Thursday, January 27thOpen Office Hours with Dan Lynch 1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.Roche Family Community Center 1716 Centre Street, West Roxbury
12.21.2010	Senators John F. Kerry and Scott Brown and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Easton Fire Department has been awarded a federal grant of $54,000 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The funds will be used to purchase two new defibrillator monitors. The equipment will replace the old monitors, which are more than a decade old, in the town’s two ambulances.“This money for the firefighters can save lives in Easton, and I’m proud Steve Lynch and I worked together to make it happen,” said Senator Kerry.“Our firefighters selflessly put themselves in harm’s way to protect our safety, but they need up-to-date equipment so they can effectively do their jobs. This funding is an important step toward ensuring they have the proper tools and resources, and I’m pleased Easton is receiving it,” Senator Brown said. Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Tom Stone and the entire Easton Fire Department. With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this federal funding is crucial and will help ensure that Easton’s first responders have the proper equipment to do their jobs effectively.”Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2010 awards will represent a $390 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States.“The defibrillator/monitors to be purchased through the Federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program are critical life-saving devices. The units will incorporate state-of-the-art technology and will serve the citizens of our community for years to come. We are truly thankful to our federal partners, Senator Kerry, Senator Brown, and Congressman Lynch. Their continuous support and assistance has made it possible to obtain vital equipment at a time when local funding is not available,” Chief Tom Stone said.
12.21.2010	Senators John F. Kerry and Scott Brown and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Bridgewater Fire Department, in Bridgewater, MA, has been awarded a federal grant of $65,867 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The funds will be used to purchase equipment, including new RIT Packs and Thermal Imaging Devices. “This is critical funding to give our first responders the equipment to save lives,” Senator Kerry said.“Our firefighters selflessly put themselves in harm’s way to protect our safety, but they need up-to-date equipment so they can effectively do their jobs. This funding is an important step toward ensuring they have the proper tools and resources, and I’m pleased Bridgewater is receiving it,” Senator Brown said. Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief George Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department. With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this federal funding is crucial and will help ensure that our firefighters have the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively and safely.”Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2010 awards will represent a $390 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States.“This grant will go towards essential equipment that will help our firefighters keep Bridgewater safe,” Chief Rogers said. “This is the department’s fourth federal fire grant in five years and I thank Senators Kerry and Brown and Congressman Lynch for their support.”
12.21.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that Araba Adjei-Koranteng has joined the Boston District Office as staff assistant. Born and raised in Randolph, Araba is a graduate of College of New Rochelle in New York where she received a Bachelor’s in Political Science. Araba also holds a Masters in Crime and Justice from Suffolk University and recently served on Suffolk’s Jumpstart Corps. She currently resides in Randolph. "We are very fortunate to have Araba join our staff," Congressman Lynch said. "Araba is very talented and brings a great deal of intelligence, energy and enthusiasm to our office."
12.16.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an informational forum on the open enrollment period for Medicare prescription drug coverage on Monday, December 20th at the Walpole Senior Center located at 135 School Street in Walpole. Representatives from Social Security Administration (SSA), Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Serving Health Insurance Needs of Elders (SHINE) will be available to answer questions and assist with the open enrollment period, which runs from November 15th – December 31st. Some new changes in Medicare Part D for 2011 make this year’s open enrollment period particularly important. Those who are covered by Medicare or provide care for an individual on Medicare are encouraged to attend and, if possible, bring a list of their prescribed drugs. WHAT: Medicare ForumWHEN: Monday, December 20th, 2010 TIME: 10:00 -11:30 a.m.WHERE: Walpole Senior Center 135 School Street Walpole, Massachusetts
12.13.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that Jeff Mahoney has joined his office as District Representative. Jeff will act as the Congressman’s liaison for the towns of Dedham, Medfield, Norwood, Westwood, and Canton as well as handle matters pertaining to small business, environment, energy and trade and commerce and postal issues. Jeff most recently served as Chief of Staff for Representative John Rogers and was previously a Deputy Inspector General for the Massachusetts Office of the Inspector General.Born and raised in Norwood, Jeff is a graduate of Norwood High School and Providence College in Rhode Island. He currently resides in Walpole.“Jeff brings a great deal of experience and energy to our office. His knowledge of the district and past work in constituent services will be helpful to the families in our district,” Congressman Lynch said. “He is a wonderful addition to our staff.”
11.24.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an informational forum on the open enrollment period for Medicare prescription drug coverage on Monday, November 29th at the Dorn Davies Senior Center, Building B at the Campello High Rise in Brockton. Representatives from Social Security Administration (SSA), Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Serving Health Insurance Needs of Elders (SHINE) will be available to answer questions and assist with the open enrollment period, which runs from November 15th – December 31st. Some new changes in Medicare Part D for 2011 make this year’s open enrollment period particularly important. Those who are covered by Medicare or provide care for an individual on Medicare are encouraged to attend and, if possible, bring a list of their prescribed drugs WHAT: Medicare ForumWHEN: Monday, November 29, 2010TIME: 10:00 -11:30 a.m.WHERE: Dorn Davies Senior Center Campello High Rise, Building B 1380 Main Street Brockton, Massachusetts
09.22.2010	On Sunday, October 24th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students in the Ninth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies.Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. • United States Military Academy • United States Naval Academy• United States Air Force Academy• United States Merchant Marine Academy • United States Coast Guard AcademyAll students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend.WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy DayWHEN: Sunday, October 24th TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PMWHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000
09.02.2010	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman Stephen Lynch today announced that the Stoughton Fire Department will receive $675,000 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. The federal funding will enable firefighters to purchase a new vehicle which will allow them to deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies. “This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief David Jardin to enhance the department’s ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,” said Senator Kerry.“Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive upgraded equipment that will allow them to better carry out their work,” said Senator Brown.“I want to commend Chief David Jardin and the entire Stoughton Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this federal funding is crucial and will help ensure that our firefighters have the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. This funding will go a long way in providing the Stoughton Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep Stoughton safe.”“These much-needed funds would not have been possible without all of the hard work and dedication of our local officials the Town Manger, Board of Selectmen and Town Meeting and the support of Senator Kerry, Senator Brown and Congressman Lynch, Senator Brian Joyce and State Reps Lou Kafka and Bill Galvin. The funds will allow us to replace a previous owned Ladder truck that we have had for 12 years that has reached the end of its life cycle. This funding will ensure that we continue to provide the safest, best possible service to the residents of Stoughton,” said Chief David Jardin.
08.24.2010	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with the entire Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today announced that Massachusetts has won the U.S. Department of Education’s Race to the Top Competition. Massachusetts was one of 18 states to advance to the second round and is among ten winning applicants. The Race to the Top competition challenges states to positively reform their education systems. The incentive is a financial reward that comes from the Department’s $4.35 billion education budget. Race to the Top awards go to States that are leading the way with ambitious yet achievable plans for implementing coherent, compelling, and comprehensive education reform.The Massachusetts lawmakers wrote to U.S. Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan earlier in the summer urging him to take the state’s strong commitment to high educational standards into consideration when reviewing its Phase 2 application.“We just landed a quarter of a billion dollars for school reform and that’s a very big deal for our kids, teachers, and principals," said Senator Kerry. "This wasn’t easy, and it didn’t happen without some tough decisions and compromises, but the bottom line is a lot of folks rolled up their sleeves to make this happen.” “I’m pleased to see that Massachusetts is being recognized for being a national leader in education. Though I have concerns about Massachusetts adopting the Common Core Standards, I’m confident this funding will enable the Commonwealth to close achievement gaps and increase the ability of our students to compete on a global scale,” said Senator Scott Brown.“Massachusetts' selection for Race To The Top funding is a testament to the excellent and innovative education reform proposals that Governor Patrick and education leaders from across the Commonwealth have put forward,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. “This significant award of federal dollars will help eliminate achievement gaps and improve troubled schools so that every child in Massachusetts has the opportunity to succeed.”“Today’s announcement that Massachusetts has been chosen as a winner in Phase II of the Department of Education’s Race to the Top competition reaffirms the Commonwealth’s strong commitment to leading the way in setting high educational standards,” said Delahunt. “It is a testament to the hard work of Governor Patrick and his Administration in aggressively pursuing this funding and I am pleased to join today in recognizing the hard work of our students, parents, teachers, and administrators.”“This is great news for Massachusetts as students and teachers prepare for another academic year. These federal funds will make even more resources available to our schools so teachers and administrators can further strengthen educational programming,” stated Congressman Capuano.“This is wonderful news for our schools and communities and I congratulate all those whose hard work and dedication made this possible,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “Massachusetts has some of the highest educational standards in the country and I am proud that these funds will be used to implement reforms that will further improve our schools.”“I am delighted that our schools have been rewarded for their unwavering commitment to quality education,” said Congressman John Olver. “Our teachers and administrators have done an outstanding job, and this funding will enable them to continue providing quality programs for our students,” said Congressman John Olver (D-MA). “Every student should have access to a quality education and, at a time of state budget shortfalls and ongoing economic challenges, Race to the Top funds will provide local school districts with critical resources to make further improvements to the state’s already first-class education system,” said Congressman John F. Tierney (MA-06) “I look forward to continuing to work in partnership with the Commonwealth to help move Massachusetts schools forward.”“This is terrific news for Massachusetts students and their families,” Rep. Jim McGovern said. “I’m very pleased that our high standards and hard work are being rewarded with these funds.”"Massachusetts has always been a leader in providing a quality public education to children who live in the state. We have the best teachers and school administrators. That is why today's important announcement should come as no great surprise. These federal funds will help implement reforms that will ensure that our students remain the best and the brightest,' said Congressman Richard E. Neal.The other winning applicants are Rhode Island, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Maryland, New York, North Carolina, Ohio and the District of Columbia.
07.23.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch voted in support of H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act which passed the House of Representatives on Thursday, July 22, 2010, by a vote of 272 to 152. The bill was signed into law by President Obama later that day. “There are millions of American workers who, through no fault of their own, have been forced out of jobs during this recession. With the passage of this bill, they will be allowed to receive unemployment benefits,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “This is truly a lifeline to those who are out of a job and looking for work. It is the right thing to do."The Unemployment Compensation Extension Act will extend unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed through November 30, 2010. The extension will apply to those who have not yet exhausted all of their unemployment benefits. An estimated 2.5 million families lost their benefits when the measure expired under current law in June. The bill will be retroactive to June 2, 2010 allowing those who lost their benefits when the measure expired to be eligible for retroactive payments.
05.27.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that Regan Tattersfield of South Easton has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition, called “An Artistic Discovery,” is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year.This year, dozens of entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and the judges, a group of leading local artists, had a difficult job in selecting the 2010 winner.In the end, they selected a charcoal drawing entitled “Skeleton in Black and White” by Regan Tattersfield, a senior at Oliver Ames High School in Easton.“Regan Tattersfield is a truly gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch. “Her work reflects the superb instruction of Kristen Shea, her art teacher at Oliver Ames High School. I hope that Regan’s success will encourage other students from Easton and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.”Congressman Lynch noted that the competition was especially tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer.Congressman Lynch said, “It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.”
05.20.2010	Congressman Dennis Moore (Third District – Kansas) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (Ninth District – Massachusetts) commended Senators Claire McCaskill (Missouri) and Chuck Grassley (Iowa) Thursday for their efforts to ensure the inclusion of a provision in the Senate financial regulatory reform package creating a Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight. A similar amendment, which was attached to the House-passed regulatory reform bill last year, was sponsored by Moore and Lynch.“This new Inspector General council would be required to prepare an annual report, compiling a top-level assessment from each financial agency I.G. with any concerns or recommendations they may have based on their ongoing oversight work,” Congressman Moore said. “Taking this simple step will greatly enhance the transparency and supervision of our markets by increasing the cooperation between the watchdogs of our financial institutions. I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for their work to guarantee this provision was added to the Senate bill.”Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, a co-sponsor of the House amendment, also expressed his support of the action taken in the Senate. “The creation of a Council of Inspectors General will strengthen the transparency and financial oversight of our markets and accomplish a key goal of regulatory reform,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “I commend my colleagues Senators McCaskill and Grassley for ensuring the inclusion of this provision in the Senate bill.”The council would be required to hold meetings at least once every quarter and prepare an annual report to Congress and the Financial Stability Oversight Council on concerns and recommendations to improve financial oversight. Additionally, the I.G. Council would be authorized to create working groups to provide regular oversight of the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s work.Moore serves as the Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and has held a number of hearings with regard to the effectiveness of Inspectors General. Lynch is a member of the Financial Services Committee and serves on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
05.20.2010	In light of recent news that Times Square bomb suspect, Faisal Shahzad, utilized informal financing networks to conceal funding of his attempted bombing and may have received financing from foreign terrorist groups, Delaware Congressman Mike Castle and Representative Stephen Lynch (D-MA) yesterday submitted a letter to Financial Services Committee Chairman, Barney Frank (D-MA) and Financial Services Committee Ranking Member, Spencer Bachus (R-AL) requesting a Financial Services Committee hearing on U.S. efforts to combat the international financing of terrorism.Rep. Castle said, "The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 spoke to the importance of understanding basic terror financing streams. Since then, however, terrorist organizations are adapting to these hurdles by using less sophisticated means to move money and avoid official banking systems, thereby making it harder to trace and prevent these funds from reaching terrorist hands. Recent events, including the Times Square bombing attempt, have demonstrated that our efforts must keep pace with evolving trends in terrorist financing."“The recent attempted bombing in Times Square only underscores the need to redouble our efforts to combat international terrorist financing,” Rep. Lynch said. “Informal financing networks can be insidious and difficult to track. As terrorist organizations develop new ways to hide and launder money, we must evaluate and strengthen our terrorist financing strategy.”Reps. Castle and Lynch have consistently worked to address this issue. In March 2009, Rep. Castle wrote to the President to request that the report required by the 2004 Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act to evaluate and make recommendations on U.S. efforts to fight terror financing be issued, but received no response. Additionally, in July 2009, Reps. Castle and Lynch introduced H.R. 3387, the Post-9/11 Terrorist Financing Review Act, legislation similar to language they offered as an amendment and was included in the House-passed version of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.A copy of the most recent hearing request letter submitted by Reps. Castle and Lynch is below: May 19, 2010The Honorable Barney Frank The Honorable Spencer BachusChairman Ranking MemberFinancial Services Committee Financial Services Committee2129 Rayburn HOB B371A Rayburn HOBWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515Dear Chairman Frank and Ranking Member Bachus:In light of recent news that Times Square bomb suspect, Faisal Shahzad, utilized the informal banking system known as hawala networks to conceal funding, we are requesting that you consider holding a Financial Services Committee hearing on efforts to combat the international financing of terrorism.Following the 2001 terrorist attacks, our government acted quickly to combat terrorist financing by freezing assets of terrorist financiers and support networks, prosecuting individuals and entities for providing material support, and training and coordinating with foreign governments. However, recent reports indicate that post-9/11 terrorist financing is evolving as those involved are: using less sophisticated means to move money and avoid official banking systems; exploiting new technology to transfer money electronically; and utilizing front organizations to circumvent sanctions and sophisticated money laundering schemes to cover-up terrorist financing activities.We recently worked together to include language in Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 to urge completion of the terrorist financing report authorized in section 6303 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act (P.L. 108-458). We feel this report will provide Congress with a long overdue update on U.S. efforts to track and disrupt terrorist financing. However, as recent events including the Times Square bombing attempt have illustrated, we cannot delay in evaluating our efforts to ensure proper coordination between government entities with jurisdiction over these activities, and keep pace with evolving trends in terrorist financing.We thank you for you consideration of this request for a hearing on terrorist financing and look forward to working with you on this important matter.Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch Michael N. CastleMember of Congress Member of Congress
05.18.2010	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman Stephen Lynch today announced that the Brockton Fire Department will receive $229,840 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. The federal funding will enable firefighters to deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies. “This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief Richard Francis to upgrade equipment and enhance the department’s ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,” said Senator Kerry. “Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive upgraded equipment that will allow them to better carry out their work,” said Senator Brown.“I want to commend Chief Richard Francis and the entire Brockton Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this federal funding is crucial and will help ensure that our firefighters have the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. This funding will go a long way in providing the Brockton Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep Brockton safe.”
05.10.2010	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman Stephen Lynch today announced that the Bridgewater Fire Department will receive $104,204 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. The federal funding will enable firefighters to deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies. “This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief George Rogers to upgrade equipment and enhance the department’s ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,” said Senator Kerry.“Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive upgraded equipment that will allow them to better carry out their work,” said Senator Brown.“I want to commend Chief George Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this funding is crucial. Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. This funding will go a long way in providing the Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep every family in Bridgewater safe.”“The Bridgewater Fire Department has been awarded a grant from the Assistance to Firefighter Grants for $104,204 to modify our fire station and update our radio network. The Bridgewater Fire Department has been successful in securing over $277,000 in the last five years from this program. The Bridgewater Fire Department has purchased Personnel Protective Equipment, Self Contained Breathing Apparatus, hose, nozzles and a vehicle exhaust system for our apparatus. This equipment has greatly improved our efficiency, provides safety to our firefighters and the citizens of our community we protect,” said Chief George Rogers.
04.30.2010	‪Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-9) today requested that the Oversight and Government Reform Committee conduct hearings on the role of Goldman Sachs & Co. in the creation of structured financial products including the marketing and trading of collateralized debt obligations and how those deals contributed to the financial crisis.‪“With the recent fraud charges filed against Goldman Sachs, and the issues raised in the Senate hearings, it is important that the Oversight Committee examine how these complex financial products were created, marketed and traded by Goldman Sachs,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said.‪In a letter to Chairman Ed Towns sent earlier today, Congressman Lynch was joined by nine of his colleagues on the Oversight Committee, including five subcommittee chairmen. Co-signing were Representatives Elijah Cummings, Dennis Kucinich, John Tierney, Wm. Lacy Clay, Jackie Speier, Ed Perlmutter, Gerald Connolly and Marcy Kaptur.Attached is the text of the letter.April 29, 2010Chairman Edolphus TownsCommittee on Government Reform2157 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515-6143Dear Mr. Chairman:Following recent developments related to the conduct of certain persons currently or formerly employed by Goldman Sachs & Co., we are writing to respectfully request that the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform conduct a hearing or series of hearings to examine the role of Goldman Sachs & Co. and others in the securitization of mortgage products and the development, underwriting, marketing, and trading of financial products including collateralized debt obligations (CDOs).As you know, the Securities and Exchange Commission recently announced charges filed against Goldman, Sachs & Co. and one of its vice presidents for defrauding investors in connection with a financial product tied to subprime mortgages. We believe this case raises important questions that are central to the recent housing crisis and the spread of the financial crisis globally.During the 111th Congress, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has held important hearings examining the causes and consequences of the recent financial crisis. We believe that we as members have a paramount duty to fulfill our congressional oversight responsibility in this matter.Notably, due to the complex nature of these issues, we also respectfully request that the allotted time given to each member for questioning be increased to 10 minutes.Thank you for your consideration of this request. Should you or your staff have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my staff, Cara Camacho or Bruce Fernandez, at 202.225.8273.Sincerely,
04.16.2010	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman Stephen Lynch today announced that the Dedham Fire Department will receive $68,256 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. The federal funding will enable firefighters to deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies. “This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief William Cullinane to upgrade equipment and enhance the department’s ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,” said Senator Kerry.“Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive upgraded equipment that will allow them to better carry out their work,” said Senator Brown.“I want to commend Chief Bill Cullinane and the entire Dedham Fire Department for their hard work and commitment in securing this fire grant,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “With our cities and towns struggling during these difficult economic times, this funding is crucial. Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need the proper equipment and training to do their jobs effectively. This funding will go a long way in providing the Dedham Fire Department with the necessary tools to keep their community and themselves safe.”
03.24.2010	This week concluded a long and difficult debate over the shape and substance of our nation's health care system. After many twists and turns the Senate put forth, and I opposed, a bill that cost almost a trillion dollars but which in my opinion, offered little to reform the current skyrocketing costs of the fee-for-service system that is dominated by the insurance industry. The basic premise for our health care reform effort was that if we could introduce real cost containment and competition; if we could challenge the dominance of the insurance companies and push down prices, we could then use those savings to provide access to health care for every American. That was our goal. In the beginning. Those goals were met in the House version of health care H.R. 3962, which I supported. First, H.R. 3962 repealed the antitrust exemption that allowed insurance companies to operate as monopolies and cartels in restraint of trade. Secondly, the House version allowed each State to establish a true public option with the object of offering low-cost insurance plans, thereby forcing insurance companies to compete. Lastly, the House version provided a progressive funding structure that asked individuals making over $500,000/yr or couples filing jointly and earning over $1,000,000/yr to pay a health care surcharge to pay for expanded coverage for the uninsured. That is the bill that I supported and the House passed and sent to the Senate. In contrast, the Senate bill, H.R. 3590, then stripped out much of the reform that the House bill offered. First, it restored the antitrust exemption for insurers allowing them to continue to operate as monopolies. Secondly, the Senate Bill eliminated the modest opportunity for states to establish public options. And lastly, the Senate removed the tax on those with incomes above $500,000 and instead placed that tax on people who already have high cost health care plans. This includes many large employers and union health plans where, over the years, members opted for less money in their paychecks or stood on picket lines to gain health benefits for their families. For many years government regarded health coverage as a basic necessity, almost like food, and refused to tax it. Guess what? Those days are over. Maybe it was because we lacked the discipline to stay in the fight, perhaps it was because we lost the message war, I'm not sure. But in the end we allowed the insurance companies to prevail. Yes, we have added 32 million people to the insurance rolls and that is noble. My fear however is that we have added them to a system that teeters on a state of serious dysfunction. And now we need to figure out how to control the costs of this system and to pay for this massive expansion of services, as prices continue to rise precipitously- and they surely will. In a world of finite resources, health care costs, quality and access cannot continue to rise together indefinitely. Something has to give. In the recently adopted Senate Bill, costs did not give way. In essence, we have paid the ransom but the insurance companies are still holding consumers hostage. The passage of time will make this increasingly apparent. One need only watch the quarterly profits of insurance companies spike in the coming months and years. Again, the basic premise for our effort was to introduce real reforms to challenge the dominance of insurance companies and push down prices, so we could use those savings to provide health care for every American. That was our goal. In the beginning. It remains our goal. I congratulate President Obama for the serious work that he has done to try to find a solution that serves the needs of this nation. I will continue to work to fix the bill that was just passed. We certainly have a lot of work to do. -30-
03.17.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 29th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by May 17, 2010. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Meghan Aldridge. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to the website, https://www.house.gov/house/ArtGuidelines.shtml, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Bridget Bigelow of North Easton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.”
02.22.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Kyle Cachopa for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Kyle, the son of David and Elizabeth, is a senior at Coyle and Cassidy Memorial High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Kyle was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Coyle and Cassidy Memorial. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like James are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Kyle Cachopa, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Kyle stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, David and Elizabeth. The Cachopa family, the town of Bridgewater and the entire state should be proud of Kyle in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.18.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Steven Walsh for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Steven, the son of James and Joan Walsh, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Steven was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Steven who are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Steven Walsh was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. Steven stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Joan. The Walsh family, the city of Brockton and the entire state should be proud of Steven in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.17.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated David Teixeira appointment to the United States Naval Academy. David, the son of Debra Brito, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “David was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like David are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, David Teixeira was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. David stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his mother, Debra. The Teixeira family, the city of Brockton, and the entire state should be proud of David in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.12.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John Noonan for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. John, the son of Jane and David Noonan, Jr., is a senior at the Roxbury Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Roxbury Latin. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John who are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John Noonan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis and the U.S. Military Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jane and David. The Noonan family, West Roxbury and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.12.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Robert Hurd for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Robert, the son of Jacqueline and Richard, is a senior at Needham High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Robert was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Needham High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Robert are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Robert Hurd was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Robert stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jacqueline and Richard. The Hurd family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Robert in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.12.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christen Constantino for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Christen, the daughter of Tracy and Brian, is a senior at Notre Dame Academy in Hingham. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Christen was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Notre Dame Academy. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Christen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christen Constantino was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Christen stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Tracy and Brian. The Constantino family, the town of Hanson and the entire state should be proud of Christen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated William Duggan for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. William, the son of Thomas and Catherine, is a senior at Canton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “William was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like William are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, William Duggan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. William stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Thomas and Catherine. The Duggan family, the town of Canton, and the entire state should be proud of William in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Wesley Clark for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Wesley, the son of Richard and Nicole, is a senior at Bridgewater – Raynham Regional High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Wesley was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Bridgewater – Raynham Regional. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Wesley are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Wesley Clark, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Wesley stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Nicole. The Clark family, the town of Bridgewater and the entire state should be proud of Wesley in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Stephanie Binjour for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Stephanie, the daughter of Julien and Jeannine, is a senior at Randolph High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Stephanie was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Randolph High. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Stephanie are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Stephanie Binjour was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Stephanie stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Julien and Jeannine. The Binjour family, the town of Randolph, and the entire state should be proud of Stephanie in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # # -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Michael Byrne for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Michael, the son of Robert and Rachel, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Michael was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Michael are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Michael Byrne was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Michael stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Rachel. The Byrne family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Michael in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Shaughnessy for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Andrew, the son of Dianne and Joseph, is a senior at Monument High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Monument High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew Shaughnessy, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Dianne and Joseph. The Shaughnessy family, South Boston and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Rian Rosetti for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Rian, the daughter of Anthony and Julia, is a senior at Westwood High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Rian was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Westwood High. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Rian are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Rian Rosetti, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Rian stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Anthony and Julia. The Rosetti family, the town of Westwood and the entire state should be proud of Rian in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated James McAvoy for appointment to the United States Military Academy. James, the son of Tracy and James, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “James was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like James are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, James McAvoy, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. James stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Tracy and James. The McAvoy family, the town of Brockton and the entire state should be proud of James in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Frank Marcotti for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Frank, the son of Janette and Frank, is a senior at Stoughton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Frank was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Stoughton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Frank are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Frank Marcotti was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Frank stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Frank and Janette. The Marcotti family, the town of Stoughton and the entire state should be proud of Frank in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Hayley Mandeville for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Hayley, the daughter of Peter and Pamela, is a senior at Medfield High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Hayley was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Medfield High. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Hayley are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Hayley Mandeville was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Hayley stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Peter and Pamela. The Mandeville family, the town of Medfield, and the entire state should be proud of Hayley in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jonathan Leone for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Jonathan, the son of Robert and Carol, is a senior at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jonathan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Whitman-Hanson. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jonathan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jonathan Leone, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Jonathan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Carol. The Leone family, the town of Whitman and the entire state should be proud of Jonathan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Samuel Keenan for appointment to the the United States Naval Academy. Samuel, the son of David and Barbara, is a freshman at Norwich University. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Samuel was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Latin and Norwich University. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Samuel are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Samuel Keenan was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Samuel stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jacqueline and Richard. The Keenan family, the town of Dorchester, and the entire state should be proud of Samuel in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jeffrey Johnston for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Jeffrey, the son of Sherrianne and Kenneth, is a senior at Stoughton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Jeffrey was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Stoughton High. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jeffrey are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jeffrey Johnston was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Jeffrey stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Sherrianne and Kenneth. The Johnston family, the town of Stoughton and the entire state should be proud of Jeffrey in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Iadonisi for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Joseph, the son of Kathleen and Robert, is a freshman at American University and a graduate of Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers High School and American University. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph Iadonisi, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Kathleen and Robert. The Iadonisi family, the town of Norwood and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.11.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher Gallagher for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Christopher, the son of Mark and Laurie, is a freshman at Valley Forge Military Academy and a graduate of the Dexter School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Christopher was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the Dexter School and Valley Forge Military Academy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Christopher are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher Gallagher, was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christopher stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mark and Laurie. The Gallagher family, the town of Dedham and the entire state should be proud of Christopher in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
01.19.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch joined Brockton Mayor Linda Balzotti, State Senator Tom Kennedy and State Representative Michael Brady on Sunday, January 17th for a community meeting and information session on the rescue and relief operations underway in Haiti. Representatives from the United States Coast Guard, the Red Cross and the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services gave updates on the current situation and offered information to those who have been impacted by the earthquake and have family or loved ones living or travelling in Haiti. “There is a large Haitian community throughout the Ninth Congressional District and we were able to reach out today to those who have been impacted by this devastating tragedy,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Haiti and the Haitian American community here in the Ninth Congressional and across the country.” Approximately 450 people attended the meeting which was held at Christ the King Parish in Brockton. Captain Joe McGuiness of the United States Coast Guard, Valerie Navy-Daniels, Chief of Development and External Relations for the Massachusetts Chapter of the Red Cross and Denis Riordan, District Director of the District Office of the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services provided updates to the attendees and were available for a question and answer session following the speaking program. “The timing of the meeting was critical and provided useful information,” Mayor Linda Balzotti said. “I would like the Haitian community in Brockton to know that my office and the City of Brockton stand ready to assist them with whatever relief efforts we can.” “This meeting was timely and well-attended which means it was necessary. It was critical to get families information on their loved ones and put them in touch with the appropriate agencies,” Senator Tom Kennedy. “I want to thank the Coast Guard, U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services, and the Red Cross for offering an update on the situation in Haiti and offering resources that can offer assistance,” Representative Michael Brady said. “We are going to continue to work together to help families in need in Brockton and the surrounding communities.” “I am very thankful to Father O’Donnell and the Christ the King Parish for their assistance with the community meeting,” Congressman Lynch added. “I am heartened by the outpouring of support and sympathy for those affected by the earthquake. My office is here to help in whatever way possible.” If you need assistance or have any questions or concerns, you can contact Congressman Lynch’s Boston Office at 617-428-2000 or Brockton Office at 508-586-5555. If you would like to help, you can donate to www.clintonbushhaitifund.org <https://www.clintonbushhaitifund.org/> or www.redcross.org <https://www.redcross.org/>. -30-
01.15.2010	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch joined Brockton Mayor Linda Balzotti, State Senator Tom Kennedy and State Representative Michael Brady on Sunday, January 17th for a community meeting and information session on the rescue and relief operations underway in Haiti. Representatives from the United States Coast Guard, the Red Cross and the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services gave updates on the current situation and offered information to those who have been impacted by the earthquake and have family or loved ones living or travelling in Haiti. “There is a large Haitian community throughout the Ninth Congressional District and we were able to reach out today to those who have been impacted by this devastating tragedy,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Haiti and the Haitian American community here in the Ninth Congressional and across the country.” Approximately 450 people attended the meeting which was held at Christ the King Parish in Brockton. Captain Joe McGuiness of the United States Coast Guard, Valerie Navy-Daniels, Chief of Development and External Relations for the Massachusetts Chapter of the Red Cross and Denis Riordan, District Director of the District Office of the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services provided updates to the attendees and were available for a question and answer session following the speaking program. “The timing of the meeting was critical and provided useful information,” Mayor Linda Balzotti said. “I would like the Haitian community in Brockton to know that my office and the City of Brockton stand ready to assist them with whatever relief efforts we can.” “This meeting was timely and well-attended which means it was necessary. It was critical to get families information on their loved ones and put them in touch with the appropriate agencies,” Senator Tom Kennedy. “I want to thank the Coast Guard, U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services, and the Red Cross for offering an update on the situation in Haiti and offering resources that can offer assistance,” Representative Michael Brady said. “We are going to continue to work together to help families in need in Brockton and the surrounding communities.” “I am very thankful to Father O’Donnell and the Christ the King Parish for their assistance with the community meeting,” Congressman Lynch added. “I am heartened by the outpouring of support and sympathy for those affected by the earthquake. My office is here to help in whatever way possible.” If you need assistance or have any questions or concerns, you can contact Congressman Lynch’s Boston Office at 617-428-2000 or Brockton Office at 508-586-5555. If you would like to help, you can donate to www.clintonbushhaitifund.org <https://www.clintonbushhaitifund.org/> or www.redcross.org <https://www.redcross.org/>. -30-
01.14.2010	“My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Haiti and to the Haitian-American community in the Ninth District and across the country who may have lost loved ones in this devastating tragedy. I am heartened to see the outpouring of sympathy and support from the American people and across the Globe. The United States has joined a massive humanitarian operation with the international community and I commend all the men and women who are involved in relief efforts in Haiti.Our Boston and Brockton offices have been in contact with many Haitian-American families who are trying to locate loved ones who are living in the earthquake-impacted areas. We have also been in contact with the State Department which has established a Haitian Task Force desk. There is a toll free number for people to call and get information on family members. The number is 1-888-407-4747. We have spoken with the Western Hemisphere's Chief for American Citizens Services and Crisis Management and we were informed that flights have been taking off with U.S. citizens and they are trying to get the word out in every way possible to let Americans know that they will be evacuated. We have been assured that everything is being done to assist American citizens living or travelling in Haiti. If you are trying to reach a loved one living or travelling in Haiti, please feel free to contact my Boston office at 617-428-2000 or my Brockton Office at 508-586-5555. We have also received a briefing from the U.S. Coast Guard regarding their efforts to get humanitarian relief to the impacted area. We have been informed that they are actively involved in relief efforts and more help is on the way.” -30-
11.08.2009	On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, by a vote of 220 yeas to 215 nays. After careful deliberation, I voted for H.R. 3962 because I felt it was the right thing to do. While not perfect in every aspect, I realize that this is part of a longer process that will continue as the bill moves to conference committee for further changes. Ultimately, I feel that the legislation will accomplish many of the key goals of healthcare reform while taking meaningful steps to manage the related costs. H.R. 3962 will expand healthcare coverage to an additional 36 million uninsured people; prohibit insurance companies from denying health insurance coverage because of a pre-existing condition; and providing for portability of healthcare coverage for those who have lost or changed their jobs. Ensuring that all Americans have access to affordable and reliable health care is a noble goal and one that reflects the highest ideals of our nation. I believe this bill, while not perfect, adequately addresses many of the earlier concerns that I had. The passage of H.R. 3962 is not the final step in the legislative process. The Senate must now vote on their bill and then, if passed, the two bills will be reconciled for a final vote. Congress has been debating health care reform now for several months. This has been, at times, an emotional and personal debate for us all and I took this decision very seriously. My offices in Boston, Brockton and Washington D.C. heard from thousands of constituents from the Ninth Congressional District. I weighed the concerns of my constituents with the merits of H.R. 3962 and I thank everyone who took the time to reach out to me. I appreciate and value your input and continue to welcome your views. While I know there are some who may disagree with certain parts of the bill, please know that I remain engaged in this process and I am deeply honored to represent the families of the 9th District of Massachusetts in the United States Congress. -30-
11.04.2009	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Ninth Congressional District in the month of November. Congressman Lynch maintains two full-time District Offices in Boston and Brockton, as well as his office Washington, D.C. Residents of the Ninth District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices. If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at 617-428-2000. OPEN OFFICE HOURS: Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Wednesday, November 4, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Easton Town Hall Mary Connolly Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 136 Elm Street, Easton Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Wednesday, November 4, 2009 12:30-2:30 p.m. Stoughton Town Hall Fitzpatrick Room, 1st Floor 10 Pearl Street, Stoughton Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Wednesday, November 4, 2009 9:00 -11:00 a.m. Whitman Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 54 South Avenue, Whitman Open Office Hours with Dan Lynch Wednesday, November 4, 2009 10:00 a.m. -12:00 P.M. Avon Town Hall 65 East Main Street, Avon Open Office Hours with Dan Lynch Thursday, November 5, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. Roche Family Community Center 1716 Centre Street, West Roxbury Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Tuesday, November 10, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Needham Town Hall Selectman’s Meeting Room, 1st Floor 1471 Highland Ave., Needham Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Tuesday, November 10, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. South Boston Community Health Center 386 West Broadway, 2nd Floor Community Room South Boston Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Thursday, November 12, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Bridgewater Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 25 South Street, Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 12, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Holbrook Town Hall Veteran’s Agent Office 50 N. Franklin St., Holbrook Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Thursday, November 12, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. West Bridgewater Town Hall First Floor Conference Room 65 North Main Street, West Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 12, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. Braintree Town Hall Johnson Memorial Chambers, 2nd Floor 1 John F. Kennedy Memorial Drive, Braintree Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Friday, November 13, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. Dorn Davies Senior Center Community Room 1380 Main Street, Building B, Brockton Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Monday, November 16, 2009 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Dedham Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 26 Bryant Street, Dedham Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Monday, November 16, 2009 2:00-4:00 p.m. Norwood Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 137 Nahatan Street, Norwood Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto Tuesday, November 17, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Milton Town Hall Small Conference Room 525 Canton Avenue, Milton Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes 1:00 -3:00 p.m. East Bridgewater Town Hall Conference Room 175 Central Street, East Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto Tuesday, November 17, 2009 1:00-3:00 p.m. Randolph Town Hall Washington Room 41 South Main Street, Randolph Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Wednesday, November 18, 2009 9:00-11:00 a.m. Hanson Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 542 Liberty Street, Hanson Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Wednesday, November 18, 2009 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Westwood Town Hall 580 High Street Westwood, MA 02090 Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Wednesday, November 18, 2009 2:00-4:00 p.m. Walpole Town Hall Room 112 135 School Street, Walpole Open Office Hours with Dan Lynch Thursday, November 19, 2009 10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Florian Hall 55 Hallet Street, Dorchester Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Thursday, November 19, 2009 2:00-4:00 p.m. Medfield Town Hall Conference Room 459 Main Street, Medfield Open Office Hours with Joe Rich Friday, November 20, 2009 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Canton Town Hall Salah Meeting Room 801 Washington Street, Canton -30-
10.01.2009	On Sunday, October 18th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students in the Ninth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. United States Military AcademyUnited States Naval AcademyUnited States Air Force AcademyUnited States Merchant Marine AcademyUnited States Coast Guard Academy All students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 18th TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000 -30-
08.26.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has postponed the open forum sponsored by Curry College scheduled for tomorrow evening out of respect for the passing of Senator Kennedy. The Forum would have conflicted with visiting hours for Senator Kennedy being held at Kennedy Library. The forum will be rescheduled for Thursday, September 3rd from 6:00 -8:00 p.m. WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch WHAT: Town Hall Forum WHEN: Thursday, September 3rd TIME: 6:00 -8:00 p.m. WHERE: Curry College 1071 Blue Hill Avenue Milton, MA ### -30-
08.26.2009	"I offer my condolences and prayers to the Kennedy family and his staff who were like his second family. We will miss his personal leadership at the same time that we celebrate his life. We are a better nation because of his service to his country, his optimistic vision and his vast legislative accomplishments. I will always remember his personal kindness to Margaret and me. We have lost a true friend.” -30-
08.11.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch invites constituents of the Ninth Congressional District to attend an open forum sponsored by Curry College on Thursday, August 27th to discuss health care reform. The forum will be held at the Alumni Recreation Center at Curry College from 6:00 -8:00 p.m. WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch WHAT: Town Hall Forum WHEN: Thursday, August 27th TIME: 6:00 -8:00 p.m. WHERE: Alumni Recreation Center Curry College 1071 Blue Hill Avenue Milton, MA -30-
07.15.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced recently that the Brockton Mental Health Collaborative (BMHC) received $397,758 in federal funding from the Department of Education’s Grants to Integrate Schools and Mental Health Systems. The Grant will be used to implement a ground-breaking approach to expand and improve mental health services available to students in the Brockton Public Schools. The Brockton Mental Health Collaborative, comprised of the Brockton Public Schools, the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health (Brockton Multi-Service Center) and the Plymouth County District Attorney’s Office (Juvenile Justice Authority), was one of just 17 grant recipients from across the country. “This innovative program will greatly benefit the Brockton community, and I congratulate the Brockton Mental Health Collaborative for receiving such a competitive grant," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “This grant will give a real boost to the BMHC as they work to address the needs of students and their families in Brockton.” The Brockton Mental Health Collaborative is a project that integrates federal, state, county and local resources to offer a preventative, public health program aimed at early detection and appropriate treatment of mental health problems. The program is tailored to meet the unique needs of Brockton’s diverse population and aims to improve upon the academic performance of students with mental health challenges. "This grant demonstrates another clear example of what is possible when institutions work collaboratively to achieve a common goal,” said James E. Harrington. "Mental illness is a serious community concern that affects so many lives, and now, we see and hear more and more children affected by it; this grant will go a long way towards addressing this issue and bring much needed mental health services to the children of our great City". “This is a wonderful opportunity for us to partner with community agencies to ensure that our children get the best services possible to address their mental health needs,” said Superintendent of Schools Basan Nembirkow. "Hopefully through this grant we cannot only provide improved services for children who are suffering from mental health issues, but also better recognize and intervene with children whose symptoms are caused by environmental factors like abuse and neglect," said Plymouth County District Attorney Timothy J. Cruz. "Dealing with the root causes of these behaviors, when possible, is essential to giving these kids a chance." "It is very gratifying that the U.S. Department of Education has recognized the strong collaborations that the Department of Mental Health (DMH) and the Brockton Multi-Service Center share with its community partners," said DMH Commissioner Barbara A. Leadholm, M.S., M.B.A. "We are all committed to identifying early on the mental health needs of school children and ensuring that these needs are met." -30-
07.08.2009	On Tuesday, July 7th, the House of Representatives voted to approve H.R. 1129, introduced by Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09), by a vote of 329-75. The legislation would authorize the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to provide annual grants for the development of regional ironworker training programs for members of federally-recognized Indian tribes. “As a former Ironworker and a card-carrying member of Boston’s Ironworkers Local 7 Union, it was with great pride that I introduced this bill,” Lynch said. “This legislation builds on the long-standing relationship between ironworkers and Native Americans to provide opportunities to pursue quality construction careers.” H.R. 1129 is modeled after a highly-successful ironworker training program geared towards Native Americans based in Broadview, Illinois. The result of a strong partnership between the Federal Government’s Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Ironworkers International Union, the Broadview program provides highly-specialized training in ironworking skills, related shop classes, and on-the-job education to Native Americans nationwide. Graduates are then placed as apprentices at local ironworker unions throughout the country. Congressman Lynch’s legislation will facilitate the building of regional training centers throughout the United States, providing graduates with the training and skills necessary to secure good jobs and a stable income to support themselves and their families. Lynch added, “I extend my thanks to Chairman Rahall and Ranking Member Hastings for their assistance and support for this legislation.” -30-
06.09.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that Bridget Bigelow of North Easton has won this year’s Congressional Art Competition in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition, called “An Artistic Discovery,” is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, dozens of entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and the judges, a group of leading local artists, had a difficult job in selecting the 2009 winner. In the end, they selected a charcoal self-portrait entitled “Bel Canto” by Bridget Bigelow, a senior at Oliver Ames High School in Easton. “Bridget Bigelow is a truly gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch, “Her work reflects the superb instruction of Kristen Shea, her art teacher at Oliver Ames High School. I hope that Bridget’s success will encourage other students from Easton and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch noted that the competition was especially tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer. Congressman Lynch said, “It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.” -30-
04.17.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) recently led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) through India and Morocco. The other members of the CODEL included Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) and several Congressional Oversight Committee Investigators. The Delegation also visited Syria, Israel, and the Gaza Strip earlier in the trip. As Co-Chairman of the House Task Force on Terrorist Financing and Proliferation, Lynch conducted a series of coordinated meetings in both India and Morocco to assess those countries' progress in combating terrorist financing and money laundering activities. Specifically, Lynch met with officials from the Federal Reserve Bank of India, including Chief General Manager Vinjay Baijal, to discuss the extent of the Bank's coordination and cooperation with India's Financial Intelligence Unit, the government agency responsible for tracking, monitoring, and enforcement in relation to illegal and suspicious financial transactions. Lynch also met with Dr. K Ramakrishnan, Chief Executive of the Indian Banks' Association, as well as various public and private sector Indian banking representatives to exchange information regarding the processing and reporting of Suspicious Transaction Reports and Cash Transaction Reports. Congressman Lynch also reviewed security measures at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, formerly Victoria Station, in Mumbai and visited the Jewish Hostel, Chabad House, as well as the Taj Hotel, all sites of recent militant attacks. The Delegation briefly paid respects at several memorials erected after the attacks. While in Mumbai, Lynch also met with leadership from the Catholic Relief Services and Stree Mukti Sanghatana (Women's Liberation Organization), a non-profit organization dedicated to addressing the plight of women and children ragpickers in Mumbai. An informal, yet vital, part of Indian society, the ragpickers collect and recycle household waste under difficult conditions for "donations" between $2 to $4 per day. It is estimated there are approximately 20,000 ragpickers in the city of Mumbai, 85% are women, many of them widows or single parents, while the remainder are young children. A former union president of the Ironworkers Union, Lynch’s visit was targeted to show support for the ragpickers union and to bring attention to their demands for uniform wages and protective gloves and masks to perform their work. “While there has been progress in some sectors of Indian society in the last decade, there remains a significant part of the Indian population that is desperately poor. Despite the heartbreaking situation and enormous challenges, these women are determined to improve their situation and to demand justice and equality for themselves and their children. I think we have a moral responsibility to support them.” While in Rabat, Morocco, Lynch met with Mr. Abdellatif Loudiyi, Secretary General of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and Hassane Alaoui Abdellaoui, President of Morocco's newly-established Financial Intelligence Unit. Notably, Lynch emphasized the importance of Morocco's coordination with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Unites States' own Financial Intelligence Unit in stopping terrorist financing. -30-
04.08.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) is currently leading a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Syria and the Gaza Strip, part of the Palestinian Territories. The other members of the CODEL include Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) and several Congressional Oversight Committee Investigators. While in Syria, Lynch and the Delegation met with President Bashar al Asad and discussed the progress of Syrian-Lebanese relations, the security situation on the Syria-Iraq border, the status of the Israeli-Syrian peace process and the status of humanitarian relief efforts in the Gaza strip as well as other issues. “Our meeting with President Asad covered a range of important issues and was both candid and constructive,” Congressman Lynch said. “While we obviously have some strong differences, I am hopeful that we can work toward our mutual goals given our shared interests in the region.” The CODEL has also travelled to Israel and Gaza where Lynch met with Israeli officials, including Opposition Leader Tzipi Livni. Lynch visited with Palestinian doctors at the Al Quds Medical Center in Gaza and met with relief agencies, including Catholic Relief Services, to discuss the challenges to humanitarian efforts there. “Currently, there are about 1.5 million people living in Gaza, an area of about 20 square miles. Many of these families with young children have no running water, no working sanitation system and no electricity. Because there are tight restrictions on basic services and the right to travel, this is really a humanitarian crisis,” said Lynch. “While several countries, including the U.S., have pledged support, it is important to move quickly to provide relief,” added Lynch. -30-
03.20.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Walsh for appointment to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Matthew, the son of John and Anne Walsh, is a senior at Lawrence Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Lawrence Academy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents. The Walsh family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.20.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Brian Horne for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Brian, the son of Robert and Susan Horne, is a senior at St. Sebastian’s School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Brian was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Brian are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Brian Horne was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Brian stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Susan. The Horne family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Brian in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.06.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Lutch of Milton for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Matthew, the son of Scott and Patricia Lutch, is a freshman at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s and Hobart and William Smith. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew Lutch was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Scott and Patricia. The Lutch family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Cong -30-
03.06.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Michael McCaffrey for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Michael, the son of Francis and Theresa, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Michael was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Brockton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Michael are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Michael McCaffrey was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Michael stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Francis and Theresa. The McCaffrey family, the town of Brockton, and the entire state should be proud of Michael in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.06.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Zoeé Kanellias for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Zoeé, the daughter of Paraskevi and Athanasios Kanellias, is a senior at Needham High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Zoeé was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Needham High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Zoeé are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Zoeé Kanellias was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Zoeé stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Paraskevi and Athanasios. The Kanellias family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Zoeé in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.06.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 28th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by May 20, 2009. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Erin Gavaghan. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://www.house.gov/lynch/, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Erica Grossman of North Easton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Neelon of Milton for appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Matthew, the son of William and Diane Neelon, is a senior at the Roxbury Latin School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Roxbury Latin. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew Neelon was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Air Force Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, William and Diane. The Neelon family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Alicia Phillips for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy. Alicia, the daughter of Warren and Maria Phillips, is a senior at Fontbonne Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Alicia was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Fontbonne Academy. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Alicia are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Alicia Phillips was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Military Academy. Alicia stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Warren and Maria. The Phillips family, the town of Holbrook, and the entire state should be proud of Alicia in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Canniff of Boston for appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Andrew, the son of John and Julie Canniff, is a senior at the Belmont Hill School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the Belmont Hill School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Julie. The Canniff family, the City of Boston, and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher Gallagher of Dedham for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Christopher, the son of Mark and Laurie Gallagher, is a senior at the Dexter School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Christopher was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at the Dexter School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Christopher are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher Gallagher was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christopher stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mark and Laurie. The Gallagher family, the town of Dedham, and the entire state should be proud of Christopher in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # # -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated William O’Brien of West Roxbury for appointment to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. William, the son of William and Lisa O’Brien, is a senior at St. Sebastian’s School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “William was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like William are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, William O’Brien was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. William stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, William and Lisa. The O’Brien family, West Roxbury, and the entire state should be proud of William in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Conor Henry of Bridgewater for appointment to the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Conor, the son of John and Lisa Henry, is a senior at Coyle and Cassidy High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Conor was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Coyle and Cassidy High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Conor are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Conor Henry was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy. Conor stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Lisa. The Henry family, the town of Bridgewater, and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Daniel Moriarty of Brockton for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Daniel, the son of Brian and Stacey Moriarty, is a senior at Brockton High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Daniel was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Brockton. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Daniel are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Daniel Moriarty was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Daniel stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Brian and Stacey. The Moriarty family, the town of Brockton, and the entire state should be proud of Daniel in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated John Ellis of Braintree for appointment to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. John, the son of David and Patricia Ellis, is a senior at Braintree High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “John was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Braintree. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like John are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, John Ellis was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. John stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, David and Patricia. The Ellis family, the town of Braintree, and the entire state should be proud of John in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Iadonisi for an appointment to the United States Military Academy. Joseph, the son of Robert and Kathleen Iadonisi, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph Iadonisi was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Kathleen. The Iadonisi family, the town of Norwood, and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Iadonisi for an appointment to the United States Military Academy. Joseph, the son of Robert and Kathleen Iadonisi, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Joseph was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian Brothers. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joseph are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph Iadonisi was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Joseph stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Robert and Kathleen. The Iadonisi family, the town of Norwood, and the entire state should be proud of Joseph in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.27.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Cole Maxwell of Needham for appointment to the United States Military Academy. Cole, the son of Steve and Helen Maxwell, is a senior at St. Sebastian’s School. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the service academies. “Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year was no exception. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” “Cole was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Cole are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Cole Maxwell was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, “There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy. Cole stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Steve and Helen Maxwell. The Maxwell family, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Cole in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. # # # -30-
02.06.2009	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch was named Chairman of the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, Postal Service and the District of Columbia of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Subcommittee assignments were announced on Wednesday by Committee Chair Edolphus “Ed” Towns.The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over matters affecting federal employees, including employees of the Treasury Department, Homeland Security and others. As Chairman, Congressman Lynch will also provide oversight of the U.S. Postal Service and the non-appropriation municipal affairs of the District of Columbia. "This is a wonderful honor and I am thankful for this opportunity," said Lynch. “My family has had a long association with the U.S. Postal Service. My mom is a proud retired member of the American Postal Workers Union after working as a postal clerk for 25 years. Two of my sisters work at the Post Office along with my brother in-law who is a letter carrier, and I have about a dozen relatives who are either working as clerks, letter-carriers or mail handlers or are recently retired. So this is a special honor,” said Lynch. "There are urgent matters facing federal employees, the U.S. Post Service and the District of Columbia that need immediate attention. I look forward to getting to work."In accepting his new position, Congressman Lynch thanked Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Chairman Ed Towns and also gave credit to outgoing Chairman Dan Davis (D-IL) for his past leadership, especially on postal matters.“Congressman Lynch understands the concerns and needs of Federal employees as both a legislator and as someone whose family has long served the postal service,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. “I congratulate him on his new subcommittee chairmanship and look forward to working with him to better serve the needs of Federal employees, postal services employees and the people of the District of Columbia.”The Subcommittee expects to conduct hearings addressing the economic challenges currently facing the Postal Service, addressing recruitment and retention challenges facing our federal workforce, and general oversight for the District of Columbia.Congressman Lynch has been a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee since he was elected to Congress in 2001. In addition to the Chairing the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, Postal Service and the District of Columbia, Congressman Lynch also serves on the Subcommittee of National Security and Foreign Affairs, chaired by Massachusetts Congressman John Tierney. Along with his new responsibilities, Congressman Lynch will continue to serve as a member of the Committee on Financial Services. -30-
02.04.2009	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Bridgewater Fire Department has been awarded a federal grant of $80,070 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program to enable firefighters to deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies and protect the safety of fire personnel and the public. The funds will be used to purchase new protective clothing. Chief George W. Rogers Jr. said, “We are very happy to receive this grant. This is our third grant in the last four years, and it has enabled us to replace vital equipment. With budgets the way they are these days, these grants are needed.” Keith Maley, spokesman for Senator Kennedy said, “The Bridgewater Fire Department eminently deserves these funds. Senator Kennedy believes this investment is vital to the indispensable job that these courageous men and women perform every day to protect the safety of the community.” “This funding will allow Chief George W. Rogers Jr. to upgrade the Bridgewater Fire Department’s equipment, enhancing the department’s ability to respond to emergency situations in the community and improving the safety of both residents and firefighters. Bridgewater’s firefighters put their lives on the line everyday and it’s critical they have the resources they need to do their jobs safely and effectively,” Senator Kerry said. Representative Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department. By working together, we were able to secure funding that will allow the Bridgewater Fire Department to purchase equipment that will increase firefighter safety and enhance its ability to carry out its mission.” -30-
11.19.2008	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the West Bridgewater Fire Department, in West Bridgewater, MA, has been awarded a federal grant of $110,636 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The funds will be used to purchase twenty self-contained breathing apparatuses (SCBA), a RIT Pak 2 and associated equipment. The new SCBAs will replace out-dated equipment and the RIT Pak 2 will provide proper support to firefighters in need of assistance. Melissa Wagoner, spokeswoman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy said, “This grant means important new support for the West Bridgewater Fire Department and the surrounding area. The whole community is grateful for the strong protection these firefighters provide.” “This funding will allow the West Bridgewater Fire Department to respond more effectively to emergency situations in the community, improving the safety of both residents and firefighters," Senator Kerry said. "I commend DHS for giving West Bridgewater’s firefighters the resources necessary to perform their very important jobs." Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Leonard Hunt and the entire West Bridgewater Fire Department. By working together, we were able to secure funding that will allow the West Bridgewater Fire Department to increase firefighter safety and enhance its ability to carry out its mission.” Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2008 awards will represent a $500 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Chief Leonard Hunt said, “On behalf of the Officers and members of the West Bridgewater Fire Department, I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Representative Stephen F. Lynch for their continued support of public safety in our town. Throughout this whole process, their guidance and input has been extremely beneficial. This much needed equipment will help to enhance our ability to protect the citizens of the Town of West Bridgewater and our neighboring communities”. ### -30-
10.16.2008	On Monday, October 6, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Iraq. Joining Congressman Lynch were Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA) and Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME) as well as several House Oversight Committee Investigators. The visit is part of an ongoing assessment of the status of military operations and reconstruction efforts in Iraq. While in Iraq, Lynch and delegation members visited the Balad Air Force Theater Hospital and examined treatment methods for traumatic brain injury. Congressman Lynch also took the opportunity to have dinner with soldiers from Massachusetts. “I cannot say enough nor do enough to thank our brave men and women in uniform. As always, I am impressed with their discipline, their humility and their common bravery,” Congressman Lynch said. “Meeting and travelling with these troops, observing the situation firsthand and listening to their concerns and then sharing those observations with the White House and with members of Congress is one of the most important and effective things I can do.” Congressman Lynch and members of the delegation also travelled to Samarra and Sadr City, a Shiite stronghold within Baghdad which has been a base of support for the radical cleric, Moqtadar al-Sadr. In Samarra, site of the 2006 Golden Mosque bombing, the CODEL participated in a walk-through of Bank Street, located in Samarra’s market area. The delegation was accompanied by the Army’s 2nd Battalion, 237th Infantry Regiment, also known as the “No Slack” Battalion from its heroic service in Vietnam. CODEL Lynch was the first Congressional delegation to participate in such a battlefield circulation in Samarra, a key population center within the 237th Infantry’s area of responsibility. In Sadr City, the delegation inspected the Sadr City R3 Water Treatment Plant, accompanied by Brian Flynn of the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. The $50 million facility has the capability of producing 25 million gallons of potable water per day, significantly improving availability of drinking water for Sadr City residents. The water plant has been the focus of Congressman Lynch and Committee Investigators after contractor errors pushed the project two years behind schedule. The delegation also visited the Alghader Rehabilitation Center, a health clinic, to examine the progress of medical care within Sadr City. Congressman Lynch and delegation members also received a briefing from General Raymond Odierno, Commander of the Multi-National Force in Iraq. General Odierno assumed command from General David Petraeus on September 16, 2008. This was Congressman Lynch’s tenth trip to Iraq. “I’ve tried to keep tabs on the situation in Iraq on a fairly regular basis over the past few years. I would say that the security situation is vastly improved generally. There are some problem areas remaining near Mosul and in Dyala Province, and near Basra. However, these are the exceptions,” Lynch said. “I anticipate that fewer troops will be needed and gradual force reductions will be coming in the near future.” -30-
10.07.2008	To begin, I would like to thank all of you who contacted me recently regarding the Economic Stabilization Act, or the Bailout Bill, H.R. 1424. Our offices in Washington, Boston, and Brockton received over 1,700 calls on this issue. As you may be aware, I strongly opposed both the White House and Senate versions of the Bailout Bill. Before I explain my reasons for my vote, I want to say that in searching for a solution to this crisis I approached this problem with two basic conditions: • Doing nothing was not an option; however, neither was spending $700 billion to make things worse. • We need a rescue plan that is targeted, effective, and fair. In the end I truly believe that this was not the best plan. Not even close. Rather, this is the best plan the White House could come up with in 10 days. Now for my reasons: first, I opposed the bailout because it required that you, the taxpayer, pay the entire cost of $700 billion. Conversely, Wall Street and the financial services industry are required to make no such contribution. To be clear, there are some aspects of the bill with which I agreed. However, this one simple fact, that the firms who led us into this mess and those who most directly benefit from this bailout are not being asked to pay any of the cost of their own rescue, is totally unfair and unacceptable. In fact, it is this unfair one-sided burden on the taxpayer that truly makes the bill a bailout. It is worth noting that after the stock market crashed back in 1929, Congress, in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, required that Wall Street and the financial services industry make a meaningful contribution toward the task of repairing the damage that had been done. Specifically, Congress required that Wall Street firms pay transaction fees based on the volume of stocks traded each day. And for the past 75 years, those transaction fees contributed to the stabilization of the stock market. I supported the inclusion of an increase in these transaction fees in the Bailout Bill. Unfortunately, neither Treasury Secretary Paulson nor Senate sponsors included such a requirement in the current bill, and the uphill efforts to do so by my friend and colleague Congressman Barney Frank were defeated. Therefore, I could not support this bill. Secondly, I also opposed the bill because it allows Secretary Paulson to purchase so-called Collateral Debt Obligations or CDO's as part of the bailout plan. Many of these CDO'S are very complex and speculative instruments that should not be eligible for purchase as troubled assets under the bailout plan. And thirdly, I refused to vote for this bill because I am very doubtful that this bailout will work as advertised. It is important to remember that the underlying premise of the bailout is that Secretary Paulson will use your $700 billion in taxpayer money to purchase bad mortgages and toxic mortgage-backed securities and other distressed instruments from banks in order to remove them from the banks' balance sheets. Theoretically, this will cause the banks to resume writing new mortgages and loans, thus boosting the economy. However, what is less widely known is that: • The market value for many of those abandoned properties that are attached to those bad mortgages has plummeted to the point that many have very little value in the current market and; • In order to help the banks' financial positions, Secretary Paulson will be forced to overpay for those distressed securities. Otherwise, the banks would realize the true losses on those properties and remain illiquid or in some cases may become insolvent. In recent hearings, Secretary Paulson conceded this point. However, by overpaying for tens of thousands of abandoned and distressed properties, your $700 billion dollars will be spent more quickly, and the impact of the bailout will reach fewer banks and properties. Meanwhile, the process of evaluating, buying, maintaining, and finally re-selling these properties is a massive and complicated undertaking. This is not a quick shot in the arm. It is not a panacea. I believe we are in for a longer and more difficult road ahead than the proponents of the bailout have described. I am also concerned that eventually, as the Government begins to sell these abandoned properties into weak regional housing markets, it will further depress prices which reduces the equity that nearby homeowners have in their homes, creating further downward pressure on the economy. Recalling that the goal of the bailout plan is to free up the balance sheets of the banks in order to induce them to write additional mortgages and loans, I am doubtful that banks would increase lending under these circumstances. In closing, I remain honored to represent you in the United States Congress. I know there are many of you who disagreed with my vote. I deeply respect your opinions, and I continue to welcome your views. I will continue to try to make the best decisions on your behalf in these challenging times. As always, I will strive to meet your highest expectations. Sincerely, Stephen F. Lynch -30-
09.23.2008	On Monday, September 22nd, the House of Representatives voted to approve H.R. 6685 introduced by Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09). Approved by a vote of 302-72, the legislation would authorize the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to provide annual grants for the development of regional ironworker training programs for members of federally-recognized Indian tribes. “As a former Ironworker and a card-carrying member of Boston’s Ironworkers Local 7 Union, it was with great pride that I introduced this bill,” Lynch said. “This legislation builds on the long-standing relationship between ironworkers and Native Americans to provide opportunities to pursue quality construction careers.” "This bill is one small step in improving career opportunities for Native Americans. On a more personal level, as a young ironworker apprentice, I learned many of the skills of my trade from Native American journeymen from tribes across America, from the Micmacs and Wampanoags in New England to the Navajo and Apache in the Southwest. There is a strong sense of fairness in what we are trying to do.” H.R. 6685 is modeled after a highly-successful ironworker training program geared towards Native Americans based in Broadview, Illinois. The result of a strong partnership between the Federal Government’s Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Ironworkers International Union, the Broadview program provides highly-specialized training in ironworking skills, related shop classes, and on-the-job education to Native Americans nationwide. Graduates are then placed as apprentices at local ironworker unions throughout the country. Congressman Lynch’s legislation will facilitate the building of regional training centers throughout the United States, providing graduates with the training and skills necessary to secure good jobs and a stable income to support themselves and their families. Lynch added, “I extend my thanks to Chairman Rahall and Ranking Member Young for their assistance and support for this legislation.” -30-
09.23.2008	On Sunday, October 19th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students in the Ninth Congressional District interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. • United States Military Academy • United States Naval Academy• United States Air Force Academy• United States Merchant Marine Academy • United States Coast Guard Academy All students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 19th TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000 -30-
08.19.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently visited ITT Integrated Structures based in Walpole. Lynch toured the facility, received an update on defense-related projects and met with employees for a town hall style meeting. Lynch previously visited the facility in 2002. “I continue to be impressed with the accuracy and the innovation of ITT Integrated Structures. During my many trips to the Middle East, I have seen firsthand that your work helps keep our soldiers safer,” Lynch said. “I thank all the workers here for everything they do for their country.” Founded in 1984, ITT Integrated Structures develops and manufactures composite components for the defense, aerospace and commercial industries. The company is known as a leader in the field of braided composite structures and currently has 14 active government contracts. ITT Integrated Structures developed and continues to produce the lightweight airframe for the Air Force’s highly successful JASSM missile. ITT employs 68 workers at their Walpole facility. “ITT Integrated Structures not only provides our armed forces with cutting-edge technology but also provides a boost to our local economy,” Lynch added. “The continued growth and success of this company is testament to the talent and skill of its employees.” In the 110th Congress, Lynch serves on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and is a member of National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee. He has visited Iraq nine times to monitor and assess military operations and reconstruction efforts. -30-
07.24.2008	BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Stephen Lynch today announced that the Brockton Area Transit Authority would receive $816,040 for new buses. “In a time of skyrocketing energy costs, making public transportation work better is relief for commuters getting walloped at the gas pump,” said Senator Kerry. “New buses in the Brockton area will provide easier, cleaner, and more cost effective travel for thousands of Massachusetts commuters.” Kennedy spokeswoman Melissa Wagoner said, “In today’s economy, safe and efficient public transportation is more important than ever, and this federal funding is a boost for commuters in the Brockton area.” "As gas prices continue to rise, these new BAT buses will make commutes greener, more comfortable and more efficient while replacing older buses and continuing the upgrade of transportation services for the people of Brockton and surrounding communities," Lynch said. "This grant was greatly assisted by Mayor Jim Harrington, Senator Bob Creedon, and our city and state delegations." “We deeply appreciate the efforts of Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch to help us continue to replace and modernize our fleet with more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. This funding will improve the mobility of those we serve in the region and help to lower our operating costs,” said Ray Ledoux, Administrator, Brockton Area Transit Authority. -30-
07.16.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) announced today that President George W. Bush has signed into law H.R. 5528. This law, first introduced by Lynch, will designate the postal facility at 120 Commercial Street in Brockton, Massachusetts, as the Rocky Marciano Post Office Building in honor of the legendary boxer. "I'd like to thank Mayor Jim Harrington, Armond Columbo, Mark Casieri, Goody Petronelli, and Charlie Tartaglia, the Marciano family and my friends at the Veteran Boxing Association as well as state and local elected officials for their dedication to honoring Rocky Marciano, a remarkable champion and citizen, through the naming of the Commercial Street Post Office." Lynch said. "Rocky’s life was the personification of the American dream. His relentless work ethic, his pride in his community and his determination to excel also made him a shining example of what is best about the city of Brockton. I am proud that we are able to honor him with such a fitting tribute." Representative Lynch introduced the legislation at the request of Brockton Mayor James E. Harrington, on March 4, 2008. Senator Kennedy's spokeswoman Melissa Wagoner said, "Rocky Marciano was the pride of Brockton and the nation and it’s fitting he’s being recognized this way in his home town, the City of Champions. "The real Rocky's legacy extends far beyond Brockton and the boxing world, but its fitting to honor him here at home where he got his start. Naming this post office after him will serve as a lasting reminder of his accomplishments,” said Senator Kerry. Rocky Marciano was born and raised in Brockton, Massachusetts. He went on to serve his country in the United States Army as a Private with the 150th Combat Engineers. He began his boxing career in 1948 and went on to amass a professional record of 49 wins, no losses. 43 of those wins came by knockout. Marciano held the Heavyweight Title from 1952 to 1956 and is the only professional boxer to retire undefeated. He died in a private plane crash, just shy of his 46th birthday, in 1969. -30-
07.03.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) recently supported passage of the new G.I. Bill which was passed by Congress and signed into law this week by President Bush as part of the Emergency Supplemental Spending Bill. The new G.I. Bill has been described as one of the single most significant veteran benefits bills to be proposed in the last 50 years and provides numerous benefits to returning vets from Iraq and Afghanistan. Service men and women who have served three years or more of active duty in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 11, 2001 would be eligible for full, four-year scholarships up to the level of the most expensive in-state public college, covering 100 percent of tuition, fees, and books. In addition, those who have served between three months and three years of active duty would be eligible for a significant proportion of the full benefit. Furthermore, the new G.I. Bill also allows additional payments for tutorial assistance, licensure, and certification tests and provides a monthly stipend equivalent to housing costs in the area. Notably, for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who have been on active duty for more than 6 years since September 11th, the education benefits can also be transferred to that veteran’s children or spouse. Previously, under the old GI Bill, benefits covered only about 60% of tuition costs and had not kept pace with the rising cost of college; the new G.I. Bill doubles these benefits from approximately $9,000 to $18,000 per year. "This new G.I. Bill is not only the right thing to do for our men and women in uniform, it also sends the right message to our young people, our future veterans- that America places a high value on voluntary military service, including the National Guard and Reserves," Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. "The way we treat our Veterans, our National Guard and Reservists signifies our respect for them and their families." The Supplemental Spending Bill also allocates $2.2 billion to fully fund military quality of life initiatives, including $863 million for military hospitals and $396 for VA hospitals and VA polytrauma centers. The bill also provides $210 million to fund military daycare centers. The new G.I. Bill was warmly and widely by the veterans' community. "This bill is a great way to say thank you to the men and women currently serving in the military," Tom Lyons said. "It is a credit to Congressman Lynch and our elected officials that these education benefits were included in the recent supplemental spending bill. It will really make a difference to our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan." Similarly, Robert Gale, Director of Veterans Services for the City of Brockton, added, "I am extremely happy that Congress has deemed it appropriate to support our returning veterans so they may return to civilian life with the opportunity to attend college. Not only will this help our veterans, but it will benefit our entire country." “Congressman Lynch has been working on behalf of veterans since he first took office and he understands the needs of the veterans’ community,” said Ted Mulvehill, Director of Veterans Services for the Town of Norwood. “This is another job well done.” -30-
06.05.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that Erica Grossman of North Easton won this year’s Congressional Art Competition in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition, called "An Artistic Discovery," is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, numerous entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and it was a difficult job in selecting the 2008 winner. In the end, Erica Grossman, a senior at Oliver Ames High School in North Easton, was selected for her mosaic made of paper magazine pieces entitled "Pieces of Me." "Erica Grossman is a truly gifted young artist," said Congressman Lynch, "Her work reflects the superb instruction of Kristyn Shea, her art teacher at Oliver Ames High School. I hope that Erica’s success will encourage other students from North Easton and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts." Congressman Lynch noted that the competition had been especially tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer. Congressman Lynch said, "It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers." -30-
04.28.2008	On Wednesday, April 23rd, the House of Representatives voted to approve H.R. 5528 introduced by Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) to designate the postal facility on Commercial Street Brockton, MA as the Rocky Marciano Post Office Building in honor of the legendary boxer. “I’d like to thank the members of the Marciano family and the public officials and residents of the City of Brockton for their dedication to honoring Rocky Marciano, a remarkable champion and citizen through the naming of the Commercial Street Post Office,” Lynch said. “Known for his skill and determination, Rocky Marciano has come to personify the best and proudest traditions of Brockton and I am proud that we are able to honor him with such a fitting tribute.” At the request of Brockton Mayor James E. Harrington, Representative Lynch introduced the legislation on March 4, 2008. Rocky Marciano was born and raised in Brockton, Massachusetts. He went on to serve his country in the United States Army as an Army Private with the 150th Combat Engineers. He began his boxing career in 1948 and went on to amass a professional record 6of 49 wins with 43 knockouts, no draws and no losses. Marciano held the Heavyweight Title from 1952 to 1956 and is the only professional boxer to retire undefeated. He died in a private plane crash, just shy of his 46th birthday, in 1969. -30-
04.28.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Medfield has been awarded a grant through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The federally-funded award, in the amount of $142,500, will be used to purchase a Mobile Live Fire Multi-Trainer. Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief William Kingsbury, advocated on behalf of Medfield's application with the Department of Homeland Security. This is the third Fire Grant Congressman Lynch has helped secure for the Medfield Fire Department. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2007 awards will represent a $490 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Bill Kingsbury and the entire Medfield Fire Department. By working together, we were able to secure funding that will allow Medfield Fire Department to provide safe and controlled live fire training not just for their own firefighters but to departments throughout the region.” “On behalf of the Medfield Fire Department I would like to thank Congressman Lynch for his continued support of our grant requests,” Chief Kingsbury said. “The Medfield Fire Department has received over $325,000 in grant awards in the last six years. It is without a doubt that if it weren’t for this grant program and the efforts of Congressman Lynch, none of this much needed equipment would be available to our firefighters.” Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. -30-
04.10.2008	On Thursday, April 10th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Iraq, Jordan and Belgium. Joining Congressman Lynch were Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA), Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME) and Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) as well as several House Oversight Committee Investigators. The visit is part of an ongoing assessment of the status of military operations and the investigation of possible fraud and abuse in Iraq reconstruction contracts. One target of the investigation has been the New Embassy Compound (NEC) in Baghdad. The NEC has been the subject of an ongoing Oversight Committee investigation due to significant cost overruns, construction delays and safety issues. The embassy compound, scheduled for completion in September 2007 with a cost of $592 million, is still not complete and its cost has risen in excess of $700 million. Lynch also visited the Taji National Depot, North of Baghdad to review the Department of Defense’s weapons tracking system for Iraqi Security Forces. Last year, the Government Accountability Office reported that the Department of Defense cannot fully account for Iraqi forces’ receipt of U.S.-funded equipment, including at least 190,000 weapons. On Sunday, April 13th, Lynch accompanied the 3rd Infantry and 101st Airborne Combat Units on patrol in the village of Yusifiah, south of Baghdad and met with local Iraqis and several Massachusetts-based armed forces units. “I can’t say enough about the tremendous job being done by our troops. I’ve been meeting a lot of Massachusetts soldiers, marines, sailors and air force personnel. I am very proud of all of them. They are very courageous and dedicated Americans,” Congressman Lynch said. “As for these investigations, there is ample evidence that the Defense Department did not put adequate controls in place to protect against contractor abuse. We are spending about $10 billion every month here in Iraq and I’m concerned that a lot of that is being wasted. That reduces the protection for our troops and delays our withdrawal in the long run,” Lynch added. The Delegation met with Lt. Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III and military officials in Baghdad over the weekend to discuss the increase in rocket attacks against Coalition Forces in the Green Zone. Mortar and rocket attacks against the Green Zone continued during Lynch’s visit. One rocket struck a parking area in the Green Zone on Saturday, while two additional rockets destroyed several vehicles adjacent to the Republican Palace on Sunday. According to Congressman Lynch, the Delegation was moved to protected areas during both attacks and was never in danger. No casualties were reported. This was Lynch’s eighth visit to Iraq. In Jordan, Congressman Lynch continued discussions with representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the relief group “Save the Children” regarding the 2 million Iraqi refugees in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. In Brussels, Lynch was briefed by Ambassador Victoria Nuland, the U.S. Permanent Representative to NATO, to discuss missile defense and coalition efforts in Afghanistan. Lynch also discussed NATO efforts in Afghanistan with NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. In the past, Lynch has suggested that NATO assistance in Iraq could be decisive in coming months and it is expected that he will raise that issue with NATO officials. The delegation also visited with the European Union (EU) Counter Terrorism Coordinator Gilles de Kerchove to discuss greater U.S. – EU cooperation in combating terrorist financing. -30-
04.02.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of “An Artistic Discovery,” the 27th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by May 27, 2008. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Sarah Bonaiuto. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to this website, https://www.house.gov/house/ArtGuidelines.shtml, for more information on the competition. “I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. “Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Courtney Gouthro of Walpole, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” -30-
03.19.2008	Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-09) appeared on FOX 25 Boston on March 19, 2008 to discuss the War in Iraq and the state of the economy. Congressman Lynch returned from his 7th trip to Iraq in January of 2008. In addition, the Congressman serves on the House Committee on Financial Services and recently hosted a foreclosure prevention workshop in the 9th Congressional District. Click on the following link to watch the interview: https://www.myfoxboston.com/myfox/pages/InsideFox/Detail?contentId=6072053&version=1&locale=EN-US&layoutCode=VSTY&pageId=5.2.1 -30-
03.17.2008	Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-09) and Congressman Peter King (NY-03) served as the Democratic and Republican leads on a March 17, 2008 letter to Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science Chairman Alan Mollohan (WV-01) and Ranking Member Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) in support of increased funding for the Regional Information Sharing Systems (RISS) Program. RISS is the primary information sharing program for our nation’s law enforcement agencies and supports over 8,000 local, state, federal, and tribal law enforcement member agencies in all 50 states. Specifically, through its six regional intelligence centers, RISS offers a variety of tools, including information sharing, research, investigative, and training services, to support the law enforcement and homeland security missions of state and local jurisdictions. If you would like to view the full text of the March 17, 2008 letter, please click here. -30-
03.11.2008	Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-09), a Member of the House Subcommittee on National Security & Foreign Affairs, discussed the national security challenges stemming from U.S. reliance on foreign oil during the Subcommittee’s March 11, 2008 hearing entitled, "National Security & Latin America: Challenges and Opportunities on Energy Cooperation." The hearing examined the current and projected state of Latin America’s energy resources, as well as its implications for regional stability and national security. The Subcommittee received testimony from a variety of energy and Latin American policy experts, including Mr. David Goldwyn (President, Goldwyn International Strategies, LLC), Mr. Paul Sotero (Director, Brazil Institute of the Woodrow Wilson Center), Dr. Ray Walser, Ph.D. (Senior Latin American Policy Analyst, The Heritage Foundation), and Mr. Eric Farnsworth (Vice President, Council of the Americas and Member, Advisory Committee on International Economic Policy of the U.S. Department of State). Notably, Congressman Lynch questioned the witness panel regarding Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’s reported support and funding of the terrorist organization, FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia) and the impact of Chavez’s involvement, if confirmed, on U.S. policy towards its fourth largest supplier of oil. If you would like to view hearing-related documents and links, please visit the Subcommittee’s website at https://nationalsecurity.oversight.house.gov/story.asp?ID=1793. -30-
02.12.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Representatives Michael E. Capuano and Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Boston Fire Department has been awarded a federal grant of $636,000 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program to help firefighters deal more effectively with fire-related emergencies and protect the safety of fire personnel and the public. The grant will be used to purchase a new tiller ladder truck that has greater maneuverability in the narrow streets of Boston. Boston Fire Commissioner Roderick J. Fraser Jr. said, “One of the Department’s top priority is modernizing its fire trucks, and this partnership with the DHS Assistance to Firefighters grant program is critical to helping us meet that goal.” Keith Maley, spokesman for Senator Kennedy said, “Senator Kennedy is delighted that the Boston Fire Department is receiving this grant to modernize its vehicles and make their urgent missions more effective. The courageous men and women deserve this state-of-the-art equipment to reach fires more quickly often at a time when every moment counts.” “This funding will allow Chief MacCurtain and the entire Boston Fire Department to respond more effectively to emergency situations in the community, improving the safety of both residents and firefighters," Senator Kerry said. "I commend DHS for giving the Boston Fire Department the resources necessary to perform their very important job." “This grant will help the City of Boston modernize its fleet, giving firefighters additional resources as they protect the public,” stated Congressman Capuano. Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is the direct result of the hard work and commitment of Commissioner Roderick Fraser, Chief Kevin MacCurtain, Deputy Commissioner of Administration and Finance Kathleen Kirleis and the entire Boston Fire Department. By working together, we were able to secure funding that will allow the Boston Fire Department to purchase new equipment which will increase firefighter safety and enhance its ability to carry out its mission.” "I'm delighted by the support that we received from Senator Kennedy, Senator Kerry, Representative Capuano, and Representative Lynch in securing this grant," Mayor Menino said. "This funding will supply our firefighters with a critical piece of modern equipment to ensure that they can perform their duties to the fullest. The new ladder truck will be an asset to the safety of both the Department and the residents that they protect." -30-
02.05.2008	Congressman Stephen Lynch (MA-09) appeared on Fox 25 Boston on December 5, 2008 to discuss the Congressional hearings on the auto industry. Click on the following link to watch the interview: https://www.myfoxboston.com/myfox/pages/InsideFox/Detail?contentId=8008496&version=1&locale=EN-US&layoutCode=VSTY&pageId=5.2.1 -30-
01.14.2008	On Saturday, January 26, 2008, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) will host a foreclosure prevention workshop at the Randolph High School cafeteria, 70 Memorial Parkway in Randolph, M.A., for residents of the Ninth Congressional District who are facing or are in foreclosure proceedings, as well as those who are concerned about their future ability to make their mortgage payments. Tenants who are renting in a building that is being foreclosed on are also invited to attend. HUD-approved counselors will meet individually with attendees to offer objective advice about their specific situation. To ensure there are enough counselors available, residents who are interested in attending are asked to RSVP by calling Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at (617) 428-2000. As a member of the House Subcommittee on Housing, Congressman Lynch recommends that attendees bring all relevant mortgage and financial paperwork to facilitate a more thorough and efficient evaluation process. WHAT: Mortgage foreclosure prevention workshop: free, confidential counseling WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch HUD-approved mortgage counselors WHEN: Saturday, January 26, 2008 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Randolph High School Cafeteria 70 Memorial Parkway Randolph, MA 02368 -30-
01.09.2008	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) is currently leading a congressional delegation (CODEL) to Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon. The other members of the CODEL include Congressmen Rob Wittman (R-VA) and Peter Welch (D-VT). This is Congressman Lynch’s seventh trip to Iraq. While in Iraq, Lynch will meet with General David H. Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker to discuss the security situation and continue evaluation of the military surge operations in Baghdad and in Ramadi, a Sunni stronghold that is the capital of Anbar Province. Lynch will also visit key infrastructure projects around the country and will visit Rusafa Courthouse and prison complex, adjacent to Sadr City, where thousands of suspects are being held on terrorism charges. Lynch and the delegation members will tour the prison and speak with inmates and Iraqi judges. Lynch is also scheduled to meet with several Massachusetts-based Guard and Reserve units. “There are an unusually high number of Massachusetts units that are here in Iraq on the current rotation. It gives me an opportunity to meet with our Massachusetts solders and Marines to thank them for their patriotism and listen to their concerns,” Lynch said from Camp Ar Ramadi. A related goal of Lynch’s trip is to examine the plight of Iraqi and Palestinian refugees in Jordan and Lebanon. In Jordan, Congressman Lynch will meet with several relief groups including the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) and Save the Children to discuss the status of Iraqi refugees in that country. While in Lebanon, Lynch will meet with Ambassador Khalil Makkawi, President of the Lebanese-Palestinian Dialogue Committee, and key political leaders in Lebanon, including Prime Minister Fouad Siniora and General Michel Suleiman. Lynch’s stop in Lebanon will also focus on land mine removal efforts in South Lebanon following clashes between Israeli troops and Hezbollah militia during the summer of 2006. “In the aftermath of the battle between the Israelis and Hezbollah there are now literally thousands of cluster bombs scattered across areas of southern Lebanon. There have been numerous reports of innocent children being maimed and killed by these discarded munitions. Every time a child gets injured, tensions naturally flare up, so we’re pushing hard to get these cluster bombs marked and cleared as quickly as possible,” Lynch stated. “The problem is that this is rocky and uneven terrain and there are thousands of these cluster bombs, about the size of a size D battery, but they’re still very dangerous.” Congressman Lynch increased funding by $5 million for landmine removal programs through an amendment to the FY2007 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill (H.R. 5522). Most of the de-mining is being conducted by the United Nations Interim Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon. As Co-Chairman of the House Task Force on Terrorist Financing and Proliferation, Lynch will meet with Rick McDonnell, executive secretary of the international Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to assess progress in the financial measures taken against Iran. Lynch also will meet with Adnan Lahasse, head of the Jordanian financial intelligence unit. The unit was established in June to help combat terrorist financing. -30-
11.26.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) this week sent the Final Report from the Congressional Delegation (CODEL) he led to Pakistan and Afghanistan in September to President George W. Bush. The Report was jointly signed by Congressman Lynch, Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA) and Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY), and shares their findings with the Bush Administration, as well as their colleagues in the Congress. During the seven-day CODEL, Congressman Lynch traveled to Qatar, Pakistan, Afghanistan, the USS Enterprise (located in the Persian Gulf), and Chad, together with Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA) and Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY). This was Congressman Lynch’s third CODEL to Afghanistan and his first to Pakistan. The full report is here. -30-
11.15.2007	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of East Bridgewater has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $52,250, will be used to fund the installation of exhaust removal system for East Bridgewater fire station. This is the second Fire Grant that Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have helped to secure for the East Bridgewater Fire Department. In 2004, Kennedy, Kerry and Lynch assisted in obtaining $96,363 in federal funding for the Town of East Bridgewater to fund the purchase of 25 Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus and a Rapid Intervention Team Rescue Air Kit. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and to fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2007 awards will represent a $490 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Senator Kennedy said, "This grant provides needed and well-deserved federal assistance to the courageous Fire Fighters in East Bridgewater who do so much to protect their community. We owe our first responders all the support they need, and I commend the Department of Homeland Security for providing these funds." “Our first responders are the heroes of our communities, and I’m thrilled that Chief Pratt and the East Bridgewater Fire Department is getting the funding it needs to be able enhance its response capabilities,” said Senator Kerry. “I thank these brave men and women for their service to our community.” Congressman Lynch said, “This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Ryon Pratt and the entire East Bridgewater Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of East Bridgewater. Working together with Senators Bob Creedon and Brian Joyce, Representative Allen McCarthy and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” East Bridgewater Fire Chief Ryon Pratt said, “These funds will allow us to purchase a badly needed vehicle exhaust removal system and create a healthier environment relative to air quality for our firefighters to work in. I thank Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch for their continued support of our Department.” More than 20,000 fire departments applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. East Bridgewater was one of only four fire departments in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, “East Bridgewater’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training has demonstrated that the town is an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it's been the leadership of Chief Pratt at the Fire Department that has made East Bridgewater so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
11.14.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today joined 28 of his colleagues in criticizing Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff for his failure to abide by the transit worker security training directives set forth by Congress in the Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007. The 9/11 Commission legislation, which was approved by the House and Senate and signed into law by President Bush on August 3, 2007, required the Department of Homeland Security to “develop and issue detailed interim final regulations” for security training for mass transportation workers by November 1, 2007. Secretary Chertoff failed to meet the congressionally-mandated deadline, and Congressman Lynch and his colleagues are urging him to explain why by November 21, 2007. Congressman Lynch said, "In a recent survey of passenger rail workers, we have discovered that almost none of them have received comprehensive instruction and/or training in executing an evacuation and emergency plan in the event of a terrorist attack. Simply put, if our railworkers who ride and maintain the railways each day don't know the plan, then we have no plan." Congressman Lynch serves on the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs and has been a leader in Congressional efforts to strengthen transit security. In March, he successfully won passage of an amendment to The Rail & Public Transportation Security Act (H.R. 1401) that would order the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a thorough assessment of the progress that rail and mass transit transportation providers make in providing basic security training to their front-line workers. In 2006, another amendment by Congressman Lynch directed an additional $25 million to transit security efforts. The text of Congressman Lynch’s letter to Secretary Chertoff, which has the support of the Amalgamated Transit Union, the Transportation Trades Department of the AFL-CIO and the Transport Workers Union, is below: November 14, 2007 The Honorable Michael Chertoff Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: We are writing to express our serious concern regarding the Department of Homeland Security’s failure to abide by the public transportation security training directives set forth by Congress in the Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007 (P.L. 110-53). As you know, Section 1408, Subsection (a), of P.L. 110-53 requires the Department to “develop and issue detailed interim final regulations” for a public transportation security program so that public transportation agencies may provide their workers, including our frontline mass transit workers, with basic and long overdue security training. Pursuant to the bill, the Department should have issued its interim security training guidelines no later than November 1, 2007, ninety days after the bill’s August 3, 2007 date of enactment. Regrettably, the Department has failed to meet this congressionally-mandated deadline. Additionally, Section 1408, Subsection (b), of P.L. 110-53 requires that in developing the interim, as well as final, security training regulations, the Department shall consult with public transportation labor representatives. Congress included this consultation provision in the bill in order to ensure that the resulting regulations incorporate public transportation employees’ expertise as to the specific training areas that must be included in their security training programs. To our knowledge, however, the Department has failed to consult with public transportation labor representatives, including the nation’s largest labor organization representing transit workers, during its development of the regulations. As evidenced by the March 2004 coordinated bombings of the commuter train system in Madrid, the July 2005 coordinated bombings of the transit system in London, and most recently, the July 2006 coordinated bombings of the Mumbai Suburban Railway, terrorist attacks have continually targeted public transportation systems worldwide. However, despite this clear pattern of terrorist activity, the nation’s public transportation workers continue to report that they have received insufficient or no anti-terrorism and emergency response training. Accordingly, the Department’s failure to abide by the public transportation security training directives set forth by Congress in P.L. 110-53 is extremely concerning. Specifically, we are concerned that the Department’s failure to meet Congress’ November 1, 2007 deadline for the issuance of interim security training regulations will subsequently delay the Department’s issuance of final regulations and as a result, unnecessarily postpone the long overdue implementation of worker security training programs at our nation’s public transportation agencies. In addition, we are concerned that the Department’s apparent failure to consult with public transportation labor representatives as it develops national worker security training guidelines will result in public transportation security training programs that are less than comprehensive. For these reasons, we respectfully ask that you provide us, by November 21, 2007, with detailed information regarding the Department’s progress in complying with Section 1408 of P.L. 110-53. We thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) Rep. James P. Moran (D-VA) Rep. Michael E. Capuano (D-MA) Rep. Jerrod Nadler (D-NY) Rep. Allyson Y. Schwartz (D-PA) Rep. Corrine Brown (D-FL) Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA) Rep. Doris O. Matsui (D-CA) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Rep. Michael H. Michaud (D-ME) Rep. Neil Abercrombie (D-HI) Rep. William D. Delahunt (D-MA) Rep. Robert A. Brady (D-PA) Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Thomas H. Allen (D-ME) Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA) Rep. Betty Sutton (D-OH) Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ) Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) Rep. Jason Altmire (D-PA) Rep. John J. Hall (D-NY) Rep. Zachary T. Space (D-OH) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) Rep. Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL) -30-
11.02.2007	BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy today, along with Congressman Stephen Lynch, wrote a letter to Secretary of Labor, Elaine Chao, urging her to fast-track all applications for federal assistance from former employees of SWB New England. The West Bridgewater company closed its doors and laid off 140 workers last month. “With no advance notice to look for new jobs, this abrupt closing has left dozens of hardworking people out in the cold right before the holidays. This is unacceptable. These workers played by the rules and contributed to the economy of Southeastern Massachusetts. We owe it to them to help them through these difficult economic times,” said Senator Kerry. “I strongly urge Secretary Chao and the Department of Labor to expedite all applications and assist these people as quickly as feasibly possible. The very livelihood of 140 Massachusetts workers and their families is a stake.” “I hope Secretary of Labor Chao will assist these workers. Their lives were turned upside down by the sudden shutdown at SWB New England, and we should do everything possible to help them through this difficult time,” said Senator Kennedy. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, “Through no fault of their own, the workers at SWB New England now find themselves out of work and without the means to support their families. Because of their employers’ failure to warn them in advance, we are calling on Secretary Chao to help ensure that these workers are provided with the tools they need to stay afloat, get back on their feet and rejoin the workforce as soon as possible.” The text of the letter is as follows: November 2, 2007 Honorable Elaine Chao Secretary Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Chao: We are writing to notify you about the abrupt closing of SWB New England, a company formerly located in the town of West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, and to ask for your assistance in ensuring that all former employees of this company are provided every opportunity to access any and all forms of federal assistance available through the Department of Labor. Last month, SWB New England very suddenly made the decision to close its doors, providing its 140 employees with little advanced notice—and no written notice—prior to shutting down. As you know, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN) requires businesses that employ 100 or more workers to provide at least 60 days advance notice prior to closing a plant. When businesses violate the WARN Act, workers can receive up to 60 days of compensation if they bring an action in a federal district court. We are concerned that former employees of SWB New England have not been made aware of their rights under the WARN Act, and we request your assistance in notifying these employees of these rights. In addition, as a result of the lack of notice provided prior to termination, former employees of SWB New England were given little opportunity to search for jobs or to apply for unemployment benefits prior to finding themselves out of work. We therefore request that the Department of Labor assist these workers in receiving any available federal assistance. We owe it to these workers to ensure that they receive all possible assistance during this time of transition. We hope that you will work with us to ensure that the former employees of SWB New England receive what is due to them under state and federal law. We thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Senator John Kerry Senator Edward Kennedy Congressman Stephen Lynch -30-
10.30.2007	A resolution honoring the World Champion Boston Red Sox was introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives. The resolution by Congressman Mike Capuano was introduced by the entire New England House Congressional Delegation. The resolution states, in part, that “the 2007 Red Sox World Champion team epitomized sportsmanship, selfless play, team spirit, determination, and heart in the course of winning 96 games in the regular season, winning the American League East Division Championship.” The 2007 Boston Red Sox won their second World Series title in just four seasons in the first moments of October 29th. They swept the Los Angeles Angels, bested the Cleveland Indians in 7 games after being down 3 games to 1 and completed their historic season with a sweep of the Colorado Rockies. “The World Champion Boston Red Sox should be congratulated for their efforts and their great success this year. They consistently exemplified the concept of teamwork throughout their season and their status as the best team in baseball is richly deserved. My colleagues and I join all of Red Sox Nation in saying thank you for yet another unforgettable year,” stated Rep. Mike Capuano, whose district includes Fenway Park. "This year's Boston Red Sox team will go down in history as one of the most talented, tenacious and successful teams of all time. I am thrilled that the Sox won their second World Series in four years, and the entire Red Sox Nation is celebrating the amazing season and a cast of players and team management that has made all of us proud to be Sox fans,” stated Congressman Ed Markey. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, “My dad, Pop Lynch was born in 1922 shortly after the Red Sox won their last World Series of the 20th Century. Pop, who is now a young 85, wondered if he’d ever live to see them win another. Now he, and all of us in New England, have seen two World Series Championships in the span of four years. God is good. The Boston Red Sox management and players and coaches are a shining example of excellence, integrity, and passion. I join all of my colleagues, and the entire U.S. Congress in paying tribute to their extraordinary accomplishment.” “I want to congratulate the Red Sox on winning a second World Series victory in four years”, Rep. Delahunt said. “The fans of New England love this team because of their work ethic and the way they play together...on the field and off. Red Sox Nation is already looking forward to next year.” “After winning their second World Series championship in four years, I would like to congratulate the players, owners and staff of the Boston Red Sox on their remarkable accomplishment. Since closer Jonathan Papelbon threw his last fastball to Jason Varitek in Game 4 to clinch the title, Red Sox nation has been celebrating the sweep with enthusiasm and pride. And that celebration will reach its peak today when the team takes a victory lap through the streets of Boston. The 2007 Boston Red Sox were a combination of veterans and rookies who came together this season to capture baseball’s fall classic. Across New England today, Red Sox fans are thrilled to call the Old Towne Team World Champions for another year,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "I congratulate the Red Sox on a great season," said Rep. Niki Tsongas. "I'm proud that many of our proud world champions cut their teeth as Lowell Spinners. I join my colleagues and the entire Red Sox Nation in applauding the great play of our beloved home team." “This World Series championship was the culmination of the Red Sox's tremendous season. This resolution rightly honors each and every member of the Red Sox team, from players, to coaching staff, to management,” said Congressman John F. Tierney (D-MA). “After this World Series win, it is clear the only potential rival left is Michael Flately and his Riverdance Troupe – and even they should take heed of Pabelbon’s prowess.” “The Red Sox have long been a source of pride in New England, and I want to congratulate them on their second World Series championship in 4 years,” Rep. Jim McGovern said. “It may take us a while to become accustomed to success – maybe a few more years like this one will do the trick.” -30-
10.30.2007	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Ninth Congressional District in the month of November. Below is a list of upcoming office hours. Look for when staff members are coming to your town! Congressman Lynch maintains two full-time District Offices in Boston and Brockton, as well as his office in Washington, D.C. Residents of the 9th District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices. If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000. OPEN OFFICE HOURS: Open Office Hours with Nick ZaferakisWednesday, November 7, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMEaston Town HallMary Connolly Meeting Room, 2nd Floor136 Elm Street, Easton Open Office Hours with Jim GordonWednesday, November 7, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMMedfield Town HallWarrant Committee Room459 Main Street, Medfield Open Office Hours with Nick ZaferakisWednesday, November 7, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMStoughton Town HallFitzpatrick Room, 1st Floor10 Pearl Street, Stoughton Open Office Hours with Jim GordonWednesday, November 7, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMWalpole Town HallRoom 116135 School Street, Walpole Open Office Hours with Bob FowkesThursday, November 8, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMHolbrook Town HallOffice of the Veterans Agent50 North Franklin Street, Holbrook Open Office Hours with Nick ZaferakisThursday, November 8, 200710:30 AM – 12:30 PMNeedham Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room, First Floor1471 Highland Avenue, Needham Open Office Hours with Bob FowkesThursday, November 8, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMBraintree Town HallAuditoriumOne JFK Memorial Drive, Braintree Open Office Hours with Nick ZaferakisThursday, November 8, 20072:00 – 4:00 PMSouth Boston Community Health CenterSecond Floor Conference Room386 West Broadway, South Boston Open Office Hours with Sarah BonaiutoTuesday, November 13, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMMilton Town HallSmall Conference Room525 Canton Avenue, Milton Open Office Hours with Jim GordonTuesday, November 13, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMNorwood Town HallFinance Committee Meeting Room556 Washington Street, Norwood Open Office Hours with Shaynah BarnesTuesday, November 13, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMWest Bridgewater Town HallLarge Conference Room65 North Main Street, West Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Sarah BonaiutoTuesday, November 13, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMRandolph Town HallLincoln Room41 South Main Street, Randolph Open Office Hours with Jim GordonTuesday, November 13, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMWestwood Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room580 High Street, Westwood Open Office Hours with Jim GordonWednesday, November 14, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMDedham Town Administration BuildingFrancis W. O’Brien Meeting Room26 Bryant Street, Dedham Open Office Hours with Shaynah BarnesWednesday, November 14, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMEast Bridgewater Town HallMain Conference Room175 Central Street, East Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Jim GordonWednesday, November 14, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMCanton Town HallSalah Meeting Room801 Washington Street, Canton Open Office Hours with Shaynah BarnesWednesday, November 14, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMWhitman Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room54 South Avenue, Whitman Open Office Hours with Dan LynchFriday, November 16, 20072:00 – 4:00 PMRoche Family Community CenterYouth Community Room, First Floor1716 Centre Street, West Roxbury Open Office Hours with Shaynah BarnesTuesday, November 27, 20079:00 – 11:00 AMHanson Town HallSelectmen’s Meeting Room542 Liberty Street, Hanson Open Office Hours with Shaynah BarnesTuesday, November 27, 20071:00 – 3:00 PMBridgewater Selectmen’s OfficeMemorial Building25 South Street, Bridgewater -30-
10.29.2007	BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Stephen Lynch today sent a letter to the CEO of SWB New England requesting that he provide a written explanation as to why the company failed to notify the workers of its impending closing or why it failed to comply with the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act. SWB New England closed its doors and laid off 140 workers earlier this month. The legislators are concerned about reports that say the company did not provide its employees with proper notice under the WARN Act. The WARN Act requires businesses that employ 100 or more workers to provide at least 60 days advance written notice prior to closing a plant or facility. “This is an issue of fundamental fairness for workers. I want to know why SWB New England failed to give its employees any advance notice before closing the plant. These workers weren’t even given any time to start looking for new jobs. They’ve been left out in the cold,” said Senator Kerry. “I’m pushing to find out whether SWB New England violated the WARN Act so that these workers can decide whether to seek compensation. I strongly urge CEO Charles Ward to fully cooperate with federal and local officials so that we can make sure that all of his former employees receive the fair treatment they are entitled to under the law.” Senator Kennedy said, “Finding a good job in this economy can be very difficult. That’s why companies need to give the advance notice required under the law. When they don’t, workers pay the price. I hope that SWB New England will meet its obligations and do everything it can to help its former employees. I commend the Commonwealth’s Rapid Response unit for assisting these hardworking men and women.” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, “As someone who worked at the General Motors Plant in Framingham when it closed down and the General Dynamics Shipyard in Quincy when it closed down as well, I know all too well the devastating impact that a closing like this can have on its workers and their families. The WARN Act was put in place to ensure that these families are provided with the tools they need to stay afloat, get back on their feet and rejoin the workforce as soon as possible. We are asking if these workers were denied their basic rights to advance notification and transitional assistance, and we will make certain that the safety is in place for these men and women during this extraordinarily difficult time.” The text of the letter is as follows: October 29, 2007 Charles Ward Chief Executive Officer SWB New England 35 Turnpike Street West Bridgewater, MA 02379 Dear Mr. Ward, We are writing to inquire about reports we have received from former employees of SWB New England, which abruptly closed its doors and laid off 140 workers on October 10, 2007. We are concerned that SWB New England did not provide these workers with proper notice under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN). The WARN Act requires businesses that employ 100 or more workers to provide at least 60 days advance written notice prior to closing a plant or facility. We have learned from state labor officials and former SWB employees that these workers received little advance notice—and no written notice—prior to SWB New England’s closure of the West Bridgewater facility. As you can imagine, SWB New England’s employees were stunned by the news that they would lose their jobs. In addition, the lack of advance notice has made it more difficult for workers to find new jobs and for state labor officials to assist the workers. We ask for your cooperation to ensure that the 140 employees of SWB New England receive all of the benefits to which they are entitled under federal and state law, including compensation under the WARN Act. We request that you provide our offices and these workers with a written explanation addressing why the company failed to notify the workers in writing of the impending closing. In addition, we ask that the company fully cooperate with federal and state labor officials in their efforts to contact the workers and assist them in finding new jobs and filing applications for unemployment benefits. We owe it to these workers to ensure that they receive all possible assistance during this time of transition. We hope that you will comply with our request and cooperate with all of the federal and state officials involved in this matter to ensure fair treatment for your former employees. We thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Edward M. Kennedy John. F. Kerry Stephen F. Lynch -30-
10.10.2007	On Monday, October 22, and Monday, October 29, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host his second and third Telephone Town Halls with residents of the Ninth Congressional District. Shortly before 5:30 PM on both Monday nights, the phones in tens of thousands of local homes will ring—and everyone who answers will be given the option of participating in the forums. At 5:30 PM, Congressman Lynch will get on the phone from his office in Washington, D.C., and the Telephone Town Hall will begin. During each live, hour-long forum, constituents will have the chance to ask Congressman Lynch questions about his recent official visit to Afghanistan, Pakistan and a Darfur refugee camp, the war in Iraq, congressional affairs, and local issues. Congressman Lynch said, “I have the tremendous honor of representing 19 towns and 2 cities in the United States Congress, and I make a special effort to host regular open public forums in our District and attend every Town Meeting that occurs while I’m home. Unfortunately, that’s not possible when Congress is in session and we have votes. So this new technology will enable me to speak directly with more of the families I represent and hear their ideas and concerns. More than 2,200 constituents took part in our first Telephone Town Hall, and I’m hopeful that these next two forums will be just as successful.” Although these two Telephone Town Halls are targeted to certain cities and towns, every resident of the Ninth Congressional District is welcome to call in. TELEPHONE TOWN HALL II – For residents of the City of BostonInstructions for Constituents who want to call in:• At 5:30 PM on Monday, October 22, dial 1-866-447-5149.• The PIN Number for our call is 13126. TELEPHONE TOWN HALL III – For residents of Avon, Braintree, Bridgewater, Brockton, Canton, East Bridgewater, Easton, Hanson, Holbrook, Milton, Randolph, Stoughton, West Bridgewater and WhitmanInstructions for Constituents who want to call in:• At 5:30 PM on Monday, October 29, dial 1-866-447-5149.• The PIN Number for our call is 13126. -30-
10.10.2007	On Sunday, October 28, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and be available for questions. • United States Military Academy at West Point, NY• United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD• United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO• United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY• United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT All students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 28, 2007 TIME: 1:00 – 3:00 PM WHERE: East Middle School 305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000 -30-
09.24.2007	Washington, DC—Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Representatives Edward J. Markey, Michael E. Capuano, and Stephen F. Lynch announced today that Congress has passed legislation authorizing important water resource improvements in the Boston area. The Water Resources Development Act, which passed the Senate today, directs the Army Corps of Engineers to prepare an environmental restoration report for Pine Tree Brook in Milton. The report is an essential step before the Army Corps can assist the community in restoring Pine Tree Brook, which has been degraded by excess sediment. The Act modifies the coordinates of the federal navigation channels in the Mystic River in Medford and the Island End River in Chelsea. The modifications will support waterfront development by increasing access to the channels. Kennedy said, “These projects are important for Chelsea, Medford, and Milton, and will contribute substantially to quality of life and economic growth in those communities. I look forward to their completion.” Kerry said, “These projects will help Chelsea, Medford and Milton plan developments that not only attract new residents but also help safeguard fragile waterways. It’s a win-win situation.”“This bill is critical to enabling development in Medford along the Mystic River. This will be a boon to the local community and I am pleased to see it passing Congress," said Rep. Markey (MA-07) “This legislation authorizes much needed funding for the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct important work addressing issues such as shoreline protection, environmental restoration and flood damage,” stated Congressman Mike Capuano. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, who represents Milton, said, “The inclusion of the Pine Tree Brook project in this bill is a major step forward in ensuring that the brook will be restored to its natural state as well as providing a safe environmental haven for the residents of Milton and the surrounding wildlife.” The Water Resources Development Act authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct civil works projects such as flood prevention, navigation dredging, and ecological restoration throughout the nation. With final approval of the bill by both chambers, the bill will next go to the President for his signature to become law. -30-
09.24.2007	If your phone rings next Monday night, it might just be your Congressman. On Monday, September 24, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) will host his first Telephone Town Hall with residents of Norwood, Dedham, Westwood, Walpole, Medfield and Needham. Shortly before 7:15 PM on Monday night, the phones in 28,000 local homes will ring—and everyone who answers will be given the option of participating in the forum. At 7:15 PM, Congressman Lynch will get on the phone from his office in Washington, D.C., and the Telephone Town Hall will begin. During the live, hour-long forum, constituents will have the chance to ask Congressman Lynch questions about his recent official visit to Afghanistan, Pakistan and a Darfur refugee camp, the War in Iraq, congressional affairs, or local issues. Congressman Lynch said, “I have the tremendous honor of representing 19 towns and 2 cities in the United States Congress, and I make a special effort to host regular open public forums in our District and attend every Town Meeting that occurs while I’m home. Unfortunately, that’s not possible when Congress is in session and we have votes. So this new technology will enable me to speak directly with more of the families I represent and hear their ideas and concerns. If this Telephone Town Hall is successful and the people of our District find it worthwhile, we will hold many, many more in the future.” Although this first Telephone Town Hall is intended for the residents of Norwood, Dedham, Westwood, Walpole, Medfield and Needham, every resident of the Ninth Congressional District is welcome to call in. Congressman Lynch plans to hold three additional regional Telephone Town Halls for all the other communities in the Ninth Congressional District. Instructions for Constituents who want to call in: At 7:15 PM on Monday, September 24, dial 1-866-447-5149. The PIN Number for our call is 13126. -30-
09.07.2007	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has awarded the East Bridgewater Police Department $214,850 through the “Secure our Schools” Program. With the COPS grant, the Town of East Bridgewater will upgrade the security systems in their three public schools to ensure a safer environment for East Bridgewater students. The East Bridgewater Police Department will use the federal funding to purchase an integrated security management system for each school which can be monitored both on-site and at the police station. These new security systems are expected to dramatically reduce the number of disruptive incidents like vandalism at East Bridgewater’s schools. East Bridgewater was one of only 12 towns in Massachusetts to receive a “Secure our Schools” grant. This summer, the Town of East Bridgewater contacted Congressman Lynch and asked him to support their grant application. Congressman Lynch then reached out to the Director of the COPS Program at the U.S. Department of Justice and advocated on behalf of East Bridgewater’s application. Congressman Lynch said, “Among the most important things we can do for our children is to care for them, protect them and give them every opportunity to learn and to succeed. Ensuring that our children and their teachers have a safe and stable environment for learning is essential. I know that Police Chief John Cowan and the Board of Selectmen have made it a top priority in East Bridgewater. These federal dollars are a contribution to their ongoing efforts.” “A safe and secure learning environment is essential for the success of all our children,” said Senator Kennedy. “I’m pleased that East Bridgewater Police Department is receiving this critical funding to further their work in protecting children.” “This funding is essential to helping keep our children and our schools safe, and will only enhance the terrific quality of the East Bridgewater school system and community,” said Senator Kerry. “Massachusetts is stronger and safer because of the DOJ’s, the local police force’s, and local officials’ investment and commitment to the children of East Bridgewater.” -30-
09.06.2007	BOSTON, MA- Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the Holbrook Fire Department has received a federal grant of $64,000 under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The funding will be used for operations and safety equipment. Senator Kennedy said, “The brave firefighters of Holbrook work every day to protect their community. We owe them all the support they need, and I commend the Department of Homeland Security for providing this needed federal assistance.” "The tragic deaths of Boston firefighters Paul Cahill and Warren Payne only underscore the tremendous risks and dangers that Massachusetts' firefighters face every day," Senator Kerry said. "This grant will help keep the men and women of the Holbrook Fire Department safer and allow them to respond to emergencies in their communities more effectively." Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Ed O’Brien and the entire Holbrook Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Holbrook. Working together with Senator Michael Morrissey, Representatives Joe Driscoll and Ron Mariano and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will both provide some relief to the local tax base and provide the Holbrook Fire Department with state-of-the-art equipment and training." -30-
08.16.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has begun to accept applications for nomination to the United States Service Academies. Each year, Congressman Lynch can nominate one or two exemplary high school students for admission to each of the Service Academies, including: • United States Military Academy at West Point• United States Naval Academy at Annapolis• United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs• United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point Congressman Lynch encourages any student from the Ninth Congressional District who is interested in attending one of the Service Academies to contact Bob Fowkes in the Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000 by Thursday, November 1. -30-
08.01.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $300,000 in federal funding to expand services at Suffolk University Law School’s Juvenile Justice Center (JJC). The funding was included in the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Act for FY 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. Founded in 1998 with a grant from the U.S. Department of Justice, the JJC provides legal representation, social services and education advocacy for youth in the juvenile justice system. In the last decade, the Center has emerged as a major source of legal support, technical assistance and policy leadership in the juvenile justice arena, both in Massachusetts and across the nation. The JJC handles 500 to 600 delinquency cases every year. Congressman Lynch said, “"This federal funding is a direct result of the hard work and dedication of President David Sargent, the faculty, staff and students at Suffolk University and the JJC. Their combined commitment has helped thousands of young men and women at risk to earn a real ‘second chance’ and emerge as healthy, productive individuals. I salute President Sargent’s continued support of this noble effort and Suffolk University’s continued service to young people in our region.” “On behalf of Suffolk University, we thank Congressman Lynch for supporting the work of our Juvenile Justice Center,” said Suffolk University President David J. Sargent. “In addition to training young attorneys, this support enables the Center to continue its research, education, training and advocacy efforts to benefit court-involved children throughout the state.” Earlier this year, at the request of Suffolk University, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding to expand services at the Juvenile Justice Center. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House this week, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. Congressman Lynch pledged to work with Senators Kennedy and Kerry to protect funding levels throughout the process. "We are extremely fortunate to have Senators Ted Kennedy and John Kerry going to bat for us in the Senate,” said Congressman Lynch. Suffolk University is well-served to have both of those gentlemen to champion this cause in the U.S. Senate.” -30-
07.31.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $100,000 in federal funding for the expansion of the headquarters of the non-profit community organization “Year Up.” The headquarters are located on Summer Street in Boston. The funding is included in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for FY 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. Congressman Lynch originally secured $100,000 for expansion of the headquarters of Year Up during the Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations process, but the funding, along with all other earmarks, was stripped out of the final Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill when the Congress deadlocked over spending. Lynch successfully lobbied to restore the funding for Year Up in this year’s bill. Year Up is a one-year technology training and professional development program that prepares high school graduates and GED recipients for well-paying careers and higher education. Year Up trainees gain six months of hands-on technical and professional training and are also placed in a six-month IT-focused apprenticeship with major corporations in the business community. “Year Up provides training and opportunity for hundreds of young men and women every year,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Graduates of Year Up are better prepared to succeed in the modern day workplace and they're better prepared to help propel the Boston business community forward.” “We are incredibly grateful to Congressman Lynch and the U.S. House of Representatives for their commitment to our program,” said Gerald Chertavian, Founder and CEO of Year Up. “This funding will enable us to reach further into the communities we serve and provide more opportunities for urban young adults to earn family sustaining wages and pursue higher education.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with the leadership of Year Up, including Board Member Craig Underwood, and a senior representative from State Street Corporation (one of Year Up’s strongest corporate partners), Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the expansion of their headquarters. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House today, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. Lynch added, “I am pleased that the House of Representatives has recognized the impact that Year Up has on its talented graduates and on their employers. This investment of federal dollars will enable founder Gerald Chertavian and his staff to build on their success and train hundreds more skilled workers for our technology-driven economy.” -30-
07.31.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $100,000 for a new dispatch system for the Braintree Police Department. The funding was included in the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Act for FY 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. The federal funding will enable the Braintree Police Department to purchase a new communications console, replacing a unit that is more than twenty years old and unable to support the Department’s safety and security needs. The console will serve as the dispatch center for all 911 calls and the emergency response system for the Town of Braintree. Congressman Lynch said, “This federal funding is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Paul Frazier and the entire Braintree Police Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Braintree. In responding to concerns raised by Senator Mike Morrissey and Representative Joe Driscoll and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that this new technology will enable the Department to better serve the people of Braintree and enhance coordination between emergency response personnel.” Earlier this year, at the request of town officials, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for a new dispatch system for the Braintree Police Department. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House this week, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. State Representative Joe Driscoll said, “The Braintree Police Department has been an example of excellence in law enforcement for the South Shore and now the funding for this much needed project will ensure that it has the infrastructure to continue to serve our residents.” Braintree Police Chief Paul Frazier said, “The Town of Braintree has been fortunate to have such dedicated legislators in Representative Joseph Driscoll and Senator Michael Morrissey. They understood the need to improve the deficient dispatch center for our Police Department and reached out to Congressman Stephen Lynch for some assistance. There have not been too many occasions that I have seen where Congressman Lynch has not delivered for his constituents and once again he understands that the type support he is giving to the Braintree Police Department will benefit us and the residents of our community.” Congressman Lynch has worked closely with the Town of Braintree over the last five years to secure federal funding for improvements to the Police and Fire Departments. Lynch has helped the Braintree Fire Department to secure three federal Fire Grants totaling more than $400,000, and he has helped the Police Department to secure a grant from the Department of Homeland Security and another grant from the Department of Justice to purchase new bulletproof vests. -30-
07.31.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Edward J. Markey (D-MA), the dean of the Massachusetts congressional delegation and a senior Democratic member of the Homeland Security Committee, today released a letter, signed by the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation, to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff requesting a full explanation of the decreased homeland security funds the state is receiving this year. On July 18th, DHS announced that Massachusetts will receive approximately $7 million less in homeland security grants for first responders this fiscal year. In addition, DHS has ranked the Boston area at their secondary “Tier 2” risk level despite its sizeable population, extensive transportation infrastructure and critical assets that require enhanced security. Representative Edward J. Markey (MA-07), who organized the letter, said, “Boston is key to the economic vitality of Massachusetts and the entire New England region. Our busy cargo port drives commercial activities not only around the state and region, but also around the world. Our port is also home to the nation’s only urban liquefied natural gas (LNG) importation terminal, which presents special security risks and costs. I am extremely disappointed that the Department has excluded Boston from its list of top tier urban areas receiving supplemental security funding, and the letter we are sending today seeks an explanation and a re-evaluation of the Department’s decision-making process so that Massachusetts receives the level of funding it needs.” “The Department’s decision to cut homeland security assistance to Massachusetts makes no sense when you consider the unique risks we face, and the people of Massachusetts deserve an explanation,” Senator Edward M. Kennedy said. “It is unacceptable that DHS has again cut counterterrorism funding for Boston and slashed aid statewide for law enforcement. Our communities depend on this funding to train and equip thousands of first responders and enhance security. I’m especially concerned that DHS continues to leave Boston off its list of top-tier cities that are at risk – cities like New York and Washington – that is uses to distribute funding, and that is why I’ve introduced an amendment requiring the GAO to investigate how risk assessments are made. DHS needs to wake up and inject some common sense into its decision making process. I promise to continue working with my colleagues to get to the bottom of the Department’s classification process and do all I can to make sure Massachusetts isn’t shortchanged again,” said Senator John Kerry. Representative Stephen Lynch (MA-09), member of the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, said, “Lowering the security profile for the Greater Boston area and slashing homeland security funding for Massachusetts is an attack on common sense. Look, we've had terrorists come off LNG tankers through the Port of Boston; we've had two of the planes used in the terrorist attacks on September 11th emanate from Logan Airport; we have a major commercial port that annually sees over 1,800 vessel calls and handles over 15 million tons of cargo that is transported through densely settled residential communities - a situation that our experience confirms is a high risk terrorist target – this is more than a 'gut feeling.' We call on Secretary Chertoff to re-examine the evidence and immediately correct this serious lapse in judgment.” The members’ letter was signed by Sens. Kennedy and Kerry and Reps. Markey, Olver, Neal, McGovern, Frank, Tierney, Capuano, Lynch and Delahunt. The text of the letter follows. # # # July 27, 2007 The Honorable Michael Chertoff Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: We are writing to express our strong concern and disappointment following the announcement that Massachusetts will receive significant cuts in homeland security funding in Fiscal Year 2007. We also note that in FY07, Boston was designated a Tier 2 metropolitan area, representing the Department of Homeland Security’s assessment that it faces lower security risks than the Tier 1 areas. We strongly disagree with this conclusion. The Department’s classification of the Boston area in Tier 2 is inconsistent with the sizeable population in the greater Boston region, extensive transportation infrastructure and additional critical assets that require enhanced funding and should qualify the Boston region as a Tier 1 metropolitan area for purposes of the homeland security grant program. The Boston area’s inclusion in Tier 2 significantly limited the potential funding it could receive in FY07, as 43 cities in Tier 2 were competing for 45 percent of the $750 million total, compared to only 7 metropolitan areas in Tier 1 that will share the majority of the FY07 funding. Accordingly, we request a full explanation of the Department of Homeland Security's grant funding allocation decisions for the FY 2007 round of Homeland Security Grant Program for Massachusetts. We also request that the Department reconsider its designation of the Boston area within Tier 2 and include it among the top high-risk cities within Tier 1. We recognize the Department’s need to make difficult funding choices. Nevertheless, we believe that Massachusetts faces unique security challenges, and homeland security grant levels should be commensurate with the severity of these challenges. Specifically, Boston is home to industries that are key to the economic vitality of Massachusetts and the entire New England region. Our busy cargo port, containing the nation’s only urban liquefied natural gas (LNG) importation terminal, drives commercial activities not only around the state and region, but also around the world. Critical infrastructure and iconic American symbols make Massachusetts an attractive terrorist target. As you know, more than five years ago, Boston’s Logan Airport was the launch point for the two planes that struck the World Trade Center towers on September 11th, and one of the terrorists involved in the foiled Millennium Plot that targeted Los Angeles International Airport, Abdelghani Meskini, infiltrated our country aboard an LNG tanker that docked at the terminal in Everett, MA. Massachusetts will receive approximately $34 million in homeland security grants for first responders this fiscal year. This represents a $7 million, or 17 percent, reduction from last year. Although the overall funding level for the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) remained approximately the same in FY07 compared to last fiscal year, the Boston region’s share declined by 22 percent. Moreover, Boston received the 9th largest cut in UASI funding over this same time period. We believe that the Boston area, with its high population density and considerable critical infrastructure that already has been targeted by terrorists, should receive a share of federal security funding that is consistent with the heightened security risks we face. Please provide a detailed written explanation of how the Department arrived at its funding allocation decisions for Massachusetts’ share of these programs as well as why the Department designated the Boston area in Tier 2. If you have any questions or concerns, please have your staff contact Mark Bayer or Michal Freedhoff at 202-225-2836 in Rep. Markey’s office. Sincerely, ______________________ ______________________ Edward Markey Edward M. Kennedy ______________________ ______________________ Barney Frank John F. Kerry ______________________ ______________________ Richard E. Neal John W. Olver ______________________ ______________________ James P. McGovern William D. Delahunt ______________________ ______________________ Michael E. Capuano John F. Tierney ______________________ Stephen F. Lynch -30-
07.27.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $200,000 for parking improvements at Norwood Memorial Airport. The funding was included in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for FY 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. The federal funding will enable the Town of Norwood to reconstruct the public parking area at Norwood Memorial Airport. Presently, the 120 space parking area has deteriorated to a point that it has become a hazard to pedestrians and vehicles. The reconstruction project will enhance the area with new curbing, paving, landscaping, and environmental improvements and lighting. Congressman Lynch said, “I applaud the efforts of Russ Maguire, Mark Ryan and the Norwood Airport Commission to help move Norwood Airport forward by modernizing its facilities and continuing to incorporate the latest technological advances. With the support of town leaders and Norwood’s delegation in the State House, Senator Marian Walsh and Representative John Rogers, they have been able to secure support and precious resources from the state and the Department of Transportation. This additional federal funding will enable Norwood Airport to remain a strong economic engine for the town, and for the surrounding communities.” Earlier this year, at the request of town officials, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for major improvements to the parking area at Norwood Airport. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House this week, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. The added federal funding continues a process of improvements to Norwood Airport that began in 2004, when Lynch helped the Airport to secure a $627,000 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to fund improvements to the facilities and infrastructure. Mark Ryan, Vice Chair of the Norwood Airport Commission and Town Engineer, said, “We are obviously very excited about this appropriation as well as being very grateful for the efforts and support that Congressman Lynch has provided the Town and Norwood Memorial Airport. Not only will the funding provide safe passage for all that use the Airport, it will greatly enhance the Airport’s ability to attract new businesses and create new jobs. Congressman Lynch has provided a significant contribution to Norwood Airport’s vision as an important economic asset to the Town of Norwood and the region.” Approximately 90,000 operations are performed each year at Norwood Airport. According to an economic analysis prepared by the Massachusetts Aeronautics Commission, the Airport contributes an annual economic benefit of $51.8 million statewide and $41.0 million for Norfolk County. -30-
07.26.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $500,000 for the purchase of brand new Brockton Area Transit buses. The funding was included in the Transportation Appropriations Act for FY 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. “In the last few years, federal dollars have helped to fuel a dramatic upgrade in transportation services for the people of Brockton and surrounding communities," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “With the help of Senators Kennedy and Kerry, we were able to secure more than $10 million for the construction of the new Intermodal Centre and for new, cleaner burning BAT buses. With this new funding, we are hoping to build on that success.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with Mayor Jim Harrington, the Brockton City Council and BAT Administrator Ray Ledoux, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the continued replacement of the older and less fuel efficient bus fleet with newer, cleaner operating buses. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House this week, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. BAT Administrator Ray Ledoux said, “Thanks to the efforts of Congressman Lynch, BAT continues its program of replacing its fleet with modern, more fuel efficient and more environmentally friendly vehicles. We are hopeful that these additional funds will lead to our purchase and testing of hybrid electric vehicles in the very near future.” Over the last two years, Congressman Lynch has secured a total of $6.78 million in federal funding for new BAT buses. All told, this funding will allow BAT to purchase 24 new buses for its fleet. These 24 new buses are eligible for federal funding because they replace buses that have been in service for over 12 years. Additionally, 15 of these buses have logged more than 350,000 miles in service. The cost of replacing each coach is approximately $300,000, and BAT intends to complete this replacement program in phases over the next few years. Lynch added, "Nearly half the cities and towns in my District will benefit from these new buses. And we all know that it would never have been possible without the leadership of Mayor Harrington, the Brockton City Council, Senator Bob Creedon, Representatives Geri Creedon, Christine Canavan and Tom Kennedy, Ray Ledoux of the Brockton Area Transit Authority and the entire Brockton delegation." Brockton Area Transit Authority has an annual operating budget of nearly $12.8 million and accommodates over 3 million passengers each year with its fixed-route and elderly/disabled transportation services. It serves the communities of Brockton, Abington, Avon, Easton, East Bridgewater, West Bridgewater, Stoughton, and Whitman. -30-
07.25.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $200,000 in federal funding for the construction of a new artificial playing surface and running track at Oliver Ames High School in Easton. The funding is included in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate for approval. Congressman Lynch originally secured $75,000 for the athletic field and track during the Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations process, but the funding, along with all other earmarks, was stripped out of the final Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill when the Congress deadlocked over spending. Lynch successfully lobbied to restore, and substantially increase, the funding in this year’s bill. “We’ve been aware for some time that Easton has a severe shortage of fields for its youth, families and athletic teams,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “That problem has been exacerbated by the ongoing renovations at Oliver Ames High School and Easton Junior High School. In response, we reviewed the federal budget for a legislative vehicle that could provide some assistance, and we went to work advocating that Easton was especially deserving of some federal assistance. It worked. While this funding is a good start, we realize that we have to do more. Still, this federal funding will get us started.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with the Easton Board of Selectmen, as well as Town Administrator David Colton, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the new playing field and track. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House today, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. “This is great news for Easton,” said Colleen Corona, Chairman of the Board of Selectmen. “We are working hard as a community to develop practical solutions to the shortage of field space in our community, and this will go a long way toward helping us renovate our high school stadium, which is in poor condition.” Selectman John Haederle, who is also leading a fundraising effort through the private, non-profit organization Friends of Easton Athletic Complex, said, “We are extremely grateful to Congressman Lynch for his steadfast efforts to secure this earmark for Easton. A renovated Muscato Stadium will alleviate overcrowding and provide expanded opportunities for use by all members of the community.” Congressman Lynch added, “Our goal here is to provide the students and families of Easton with a state-of-the-art athletic field that everyone can be proud of. I am pleased that the House of Representatives recognized the need in Easton and heard the concerns of the Selectmen and School and Recreation Committees, and dozens of sports groups in this worthy effort. This is how the system is supposed to work.” -30-
07.23.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) this week sent the Final Report from the Congressional Delegation (CODEL) he led to Iraq and Afghanistan in April to President George W. Bush. The Report was jointly signed by Congressman Lynch, Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) and Rep. Chris Murphy (D-CT), and shares their findings with the Bush Administration, as well as their colleagues in the Congress. To read the full report, click here. During the seven-day CODEL, Congressman Lynch traveled to Iraq, Afghanistan, Jordan and Turkey together with Rep. Christopher Shays (R-CT), Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC). This was Congressman Lynch’s sixth CODEL to Iraq and his second to Afghanistan. The trip was intended to monitor the recent "surge" strategy in Baghdad and Anbar Province and to conduct congressional oversight of the Iraq Reconstruction process. In Afghanistan, Lynch met with President Hamid Karzai to assess the situation along the tribal areas along the border with Pakistan. As the Chairman of the House Task Force on Terrorist Financing and Proliferation, Lynch also met with central banking officials from several nations regarding transparency and anti-terrorist financing issues. After Congressman Lynch and his colleagues returned home, they met in the Oval Office of the White House with President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten, Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley and Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Candida Wolff. President Bush requested the meeting to discuss the findings of the CODEL. At that meeting, Congressman Lynch informed the President that he would prepare a complete report of the CODEL’s findings and send it to his Administration. -30-
07.20.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $200,000 in federal funding for the expansion of the Brockton Neighborhood Health Center at a new site. The funding is included in the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which now heads to the U.S. Senate. “This funding will provide a significant boost for health care in Brockton,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “Together with Mayor Harrington, I’m pleased to deliver some great news for the Brockton Neighborhood Health Center. Because of the accessible, high quality care that the health center is known for, demand for its services has risen significantly. This federal funding, coupled with additional funding that the BNHC has secured, will allow it to serve many more families in need.” The Brockton Neighborhood Health Center’s new facility, which will be located within a federally designated Medically Underserved Area, will offer a “one-stop shop” for local families. It will have expanded space, consolidated services and a pharmacy on the first floor. In addition to enabling the BNHC to serve more patients, the new site is expected to provide economic benefits to the community by creating jobs and redeveloping a blighted area. Earlier this year, after consulting with Mayor James Harrington, State Senator Bob Creedon, State Representatives Geraldine Creedon, Thomas Kennedy and Christine Canavan, and Sue Joss, Executive Director of the Brockton Neighborhood Health Center, Congressman Lynch approached Democratic and Republican leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the renovation and expansion of the Health Center. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House Thursday, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. Congressman Lynch pledged to work with Senators Kennedy and Kerry to protect funding levels throughout the process. "We are extremely fortunate to have Senators Ted Kennedy and John Kerry going to bat for us in the Senate. Brockton is well-served to have both of those gentlemen to champion this cause in the U.S. Senate.” The Brockton Neighborhood Health Center began providing services in 1994 in a mobile medical van operating out of a church parking lot. Since then, the center has rapidly grown to a multi-site clinic providing desperately needed medical and dental services to low-income families in Greater Brockton. The health center currently offers preventative and specialty health care services to more than 12,000 patients, and provided more than 61,000 patient visits in Fiscal Year 2006. The expansion of the BNHC at its new site will allow it to provide more than 97,000 patient visits by the year 2010. Lynch added, “Sue Joss and the doctors, nurses and staff at BNHC have created a health care center for Brockton’s families and children that is second to none. I am grateful that the federal appropriators recognized their good work, and the urgent need that the Neighborhood Health Center serves. This federal funding will help to ensure that many more residents of Brockton are able to take advantage of this wonderful resource.” -30-
07.19.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) this week backed legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to eliminate the backlog that has made it difficult for Americans to receive passports. The legislation was unanimously approved by the House and has been sent to the Senate for final approval. “My office has heard from countless residents of the Ninth Congressional District who have waited up to four months just to receive a passport,” said Congressman Lynch. “This common sense legislation will make it easier for the State Department to process applications and send travelers on their way.” Passport requests skyrocketed following the implementation of a new law requiring Americans traveling by air to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda to have a passport. The increase has resulted in significant delays with many waiting months to receive their passports and a backlog of about 3 million passport applications. Lynch said, “It was unwise to try to implement these new regulations without hiring enough staff to handle the onslaught of passport applications. This legislation will go a long way toward fixing the backlog and enabling the State Department to process the applications in a much more reasonable amount of time.” The Passport Backlog Reduction Act gives the State Department the authority to hire retired former staffers who are trained and authorized to process passport applications. Current law denies retirement benefits to these retirees if they exceed strict caps on wages earned and hours worked. The legislation approved by the House waives these requirements and makes it possible for the retired workers to return to work and help ease the passport shortage. Congressman Lynch office has already assisted a number of residents who have had difficulty obtaining a passport. Any resident of Massachusetts’ Ninth Congressional District needing assistance with a delayed passport application should contact Sarah Bonaiuto in Congressman Lynch’s Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
07.19.2007	Washington, DC- Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA), Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (R-AL), and Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-MA) sent a letter today to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), calling for a report on the mission and operational capacity of the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), and on the increasing volume of Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) filings—including Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) and Currency Transaction Reports (CTRs). The GAO report requested today was prompted by issues raised at a May 10, 2007 hearing held in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations—the first of a series of hearings on the subject of balancing law enforcement utility and regulatory requirements of BSA reporting. The full text of the letter follows: July 19, 2007 The Honorable David M. Walker Comptroller General of the United States U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street NW Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Walker: The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations recently held a hearing on the actions being taken by the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), federal law enforcement agencies, and depository institutions pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). This hearing and other events have raised questions about the efficiency and effectiveness of BSA administration and enforcement. As you know, GAO is currently reviewing one aspect of this process—the filing and use of Currency Transaction Reports, or CTRs—in response to a mandate in the Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-351). We are asking for your assistance in looking more comprehensively at the current framework for achieving the goals of the BSA. One area of concern is the mission and operational capacity of FinCEN, which was established in 1990 as a government-wide, service-oriented, financial information-sharing agency. FinCEN’s general mission is to help safeguard the U.S. financial system from financial crimes, including money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities, but its specific roles and responsibilities have grown and evolved over time. FinCEN is responsible for collecting, maintaining, analyzing, and disseminating financial information reported by financial institutions, as required by the BSA, but relies heavily on support from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for data collection, processing, and storage. FinCEN conducts its own analyses of BSA data and also responds to requests from law enforcement agencies for BSA data or information pertaining to specific investigations or activities. Several federal law enforcement agencies—including the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Department of Homeland Security’s Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Drug Enforcement Administration; and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives—have recently acquired the capability and authority to download BSA data in bulk form, in order to make more effective use of the data. While potentially providing benefits, this situation also raises the possibility of duplication of effort. Specific questions warranting GAO’s review in this area include the following: 1. How has FinCEN’s mission evolved in response to statutory, technological, or other changes? Have the agency’s management, staffing, and operations kept pace with changes in role/mission? 2. In what ways does FinCEN currently serve law enforcement agencies? How should it be serving them, in terms of both "proactive" efforts (analysis of BSA data) and "reactive" efforts (responding to requests for data on specific cases)? 3. What constraints, if any, on FinCEN’s ability to achieve its mission arise from the cooperative arrangements with IRS in maintaining BSA data? 4. Are the BSA data systems secure? Are the systems for filing and aggregating BSA data sufficiently timely to meet the goal of assisting law enforcement efforts? A second area of concern is the Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) process. According to FinCEN, over one million SARs were filed in 2006, and depository institutions and firms in the securities and futures industries accounted for over half of them. At the May hearing, a number of banking industry witnesses commented that they lacked clear guidance on what law enforcement is looking for and finds useful in these reports, and noted that the industry engages in “defensive” SAR filings, or erring on the side of filing a SAR even if there is doubt about its usefulness, in order to avoid the possibility of being penalized by federal financial institution regulators. This, in turn, raises questions about the process by which federal regulators—the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union Administration—examine financial institutions for BSA compliance. As a result of a joint effort by the federal banking regulators and FinCEN under the auspices of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, in June 2005, the regulators adopted a new examination manual to provide guidance to examiners for carrying out Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML) examinations. One of the primary purposes of the manual was to bring consistency to the examinations; yet, at the recent hearing, bank representatives commented that the rules still lacked clarity and examiners were not uniformly interpreting the requirements. Specific questions warranting GAO’s review in this area include the following: 1. What factors have contributed to the rise in the number of SARs filed in recent years? To what extent are SARs filed "defensively" to avoid potential questions or sanctions from federal banking regulatory examiners? 2. To what extent are current SAR forms appropriate for law enforcement needs? What factors, if any, inhibit making changes that could make the forms more useful? 3. To what extent do financial institutions use "back channels" (in lieu of, or in addition to, SARs) to report suspicious financial activities to law enforcement agencies? What are the reasons for this practice? 4. What impact has the BSA/AML Examination Manual had on the examination process? How many examinations have been conducted by each of the federal banking regulators since the manual was issued and what have been the results in terms of violations identified and addressed and enforcement actions taken? 5. To what extent are actions—for example, developing additional guidance or providing additional training—necessary to ensure consistency in BSA/AML examinations? Finally, there is concern about the cumulative impact of the current BSA reporting requirements. The growing volume of both SARs and CTRs (over 15 million CTRs were filed in 2006 alone), coupled with other BSA reporting requirements—such as biweekly requests pursuant to section 314(a) of the USA PATRIOT Act—have raised questions about whether they represent the most efficient and effective way of conveying useful financial information to law enforcement agencies. 1. Does the growing volume of SARs and CTRs, biweekly 314(a) requests, and other requests for information, impair or threaten to impair law enforcement’s capacity to use the information to investigate or prevent financial crime or terrorism? Is there potential for reducing the volume of data without impairing law enforcement, or for streamlining the methods used to provide the information to FinCEN? 2. Is there a more effective or efficient way to provide law enforcement with useful financial data and otherwise meet the goals of the Bank Secrecy Act, or if not, to significantly reduce the burden of providing the information? The Committee recognizes that there is a host of complex issues regarding the BSA framework and that bringing about any meaningful resolution of these issues will likely be a long-term process. We are asking your assistance in helping to address the questions posed in this letter, in a series of reports, briefings, or testimonies over the next two years. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. BARNEY FRANK SPENCER BACHUS Chairman Ranking Member Financial Services Committee Financial Services Committee STEPHEN F. LYNCH Member of Congress -30-
06.28.2007	Years of effort by NOAA and the U.S. Coast Guard will pay off this weekend when, for the first time in the United States, ship traffic lanes will be shifted to reduce the risk of collisions between large ships and whales. Beginning July 1, ships transiting in and out of Boston Harbor in shipping lanes will travel a different path. The lanes have been rotated slightly to the northeast and narrowed to avoid waters where there are high concentrations of whales. The lane shift adds 3.75 nautical miles to the overall distance and 10 to 22 minutes to each one-way trip. It also improves safety by moving large ship traffic further away from areas frequently transited by smaller fishing boats, and by reducing chances of damage to large ships owing to collisions with whales or with other ships while attempting to avoid whales. “This is a large part of NOAA’s effort to work with its partners and industry to improve the prospects for endangered North Atlantic right whales. The population is vulnerable since they are particularly susceptible to collisions with ships,” said retired Navy Vice Adm. Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Ph.D., NOAA administrator and undersecretary of commerce for oceans and atmosphere. “We have extensively studied the problem and whale behavior and have devised this measure as a much safer environment for ships and the whales while at the same time being the least disruptive to the economy.” “This change highlights how the Coast Guard protects ‘people from the sea and the sea from people.’ Whale collisions with ships pose a significant hazard that we needed to better control,” said Coast Guard Capt. Liam Slein, First Coast Guard District Chief of Prevention. “We expect this small change will protect numerous whales while also reducing the damage and hazards such collisions cause.” "I am pleased to see the cooperative efforts of NOAA and the United States Coast Guard result in a plan that will reduce the risk of collisions between large ships and whales in the shipping lanes in and out of Boston harbor," said Senator Kerry. "This is a great example of protecting the environment while maintaining an economically vital industry." Senator Judd Gregg stated, “The relocation of the shipping lanes is the culmination of years of research and negotiation. I commend the USCG and NOAA for their hard work. I am hopeful that this action, in concert with our other efforts, will result in a more stable and healthy whale population, and will help prevent the unnecessary ship strike deaths of the very endangered right whales.” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, who represents the Port of Boston, said, "It is an extraordinary challenge to balance the commercial needs of the Port of Boston with the importance of protecting marine life and the environment, and the Coast Guard and NOAA are doing a remarkable job. It is critical that we maintain a viable working port, while also preserving the natural habitats and sea lanes used by whales -- notably, the Northern right whale. We will continue to monitor the situation going forward to ensure that our policies move us closer to both of those goals." NOAA researchers calculated the spatial density of whales in the NOAA Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary to determine if collision risks in the area could be reduced by moving the shipping lanes. The Coast Guard assessed safety and navigational effects of the shift on commercial ship traffic. Data on whale presence used in the analysis was collected over a 25-year period, and provided by the Provincetown Center for Coastal Studies, the Whale Center of New England, as well as sightings data collected by a host of other New England researchers and curated by the University of Rhode Island in the North Atlantic Right Whale Sighting Database. The International Maritime Organization approved the U.S. proposed lane revision last December. Since that time, NOAA navigational charts have been updated with the revision. The IMO is a specialized agency of the United Nations that addresses issues pertaining to international shipping traffic, and it originally established the Boston Harbor shipping lanes in 1973. Approximately 3,500 ship transits occur within the Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary every year, with the vast majority using the lanes. The shift rotated the east-west leg of the lanes by 12 degrees to the north, and lengthened the north-south lane to account for this adjustment. The lanes themselves were narrowed by one-half mile, to a width of 1.5 miles each. The width of the buffer between outgoing and incoming traffic was not affected. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department, is celebrating 200 years of science and service to the nation. From the establishment of the Survey of the Coast in 1807 by Thomas Jefferson to the formation of the Weather Bureau and the Commission of Fish and Fisheries in the 1870s, much of America's scientific heritage is rooted in NOAA. NOAA is dedicated to enhancing economic security and national safety through the prediction and research of weather and climate-related events and information service delivery for transportation, and by providing environmental stewardship of our nation's coastal and marine resources. Through the emerging Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS), NOAA is working with its federal partners, more than 60 countries and the European Commission to develop a global monitoring network that is as integrated as the planet it observes, predicts and protects. -30-
06.21.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), the Democratic Chair of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, today urged his colleagues to increase funding for efforts aimed at preventing terrorist financing and money laundering. Congressman Lynch, the author of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2440), spoke during the floor debate over the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act. His remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives follow. CONGRESSMAN STEPHEN F. LYNCH (D-MA): First of all, Madame Chairwoman (Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY)), I would like to thank you for your efforts to increase funding for Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining, and Related Programs. But my amendment would have targeted a specific increase for the counterterrorism program within this account. This vital program was only funded at the President's requested level of $6.4 million which is a reduction from the $7.4 million in last year's budget. As the Co-Chair of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, I've joined many of my colleagues in meetings and hearings exploring the challenges faced by the U.S. government in battling terrorist financing. Since the attacks of 9/11, Congress has taken significant steps towards utilizing investigations and data collection regarding terrorist financing as viable intelligence tools for disrupting the financing of terrorist activities. Nevertheless, terrorists' proven ability to move money through innovative means necessitates continued progress in this critical counterterrorism area. Al Qaeda's strength rests in its ability to continually adapt to U.S. tactics, thus more funds are necessary in order to develop new counterterrorism financing strategies to match their changing methods. In April, I organized a trip to the Middle East where I met with high ranking banking officials to discuss the issue of anti-terrorism financing in Jordan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Turkey. I believe that through international, financial pressure we can effect real change in the policies of other countries towards terrorist groups. In the parts of the world where financial restrictions would have the most impact, U.S. influence is usually the lowest. On the other hand, however, these countries do want to participate in the global economy, thus we have seen they are more likely to adopt transparency in their finance laws for the purpose of gaining legitimacy in the eyes of global investors - rather than in response to U.S. pressure. By allocating more resources to inducing anti-money laundering compliance and transparency, we can make significant gains in tracking terrorists and cutting off their funding. While we've made some progress, considerable effort still needs to be invested in regulating the Hawala system because anytime you have a lack of transparency and a lack of accountability regarding the movement of funds, there is the likelihood that terrorists and criminals can harness the system for their gain. By closing off legitimate financial markets for terrorists, we force them to change to tactics that are less secure and oftentimes easier to track. A prime example is the December 14th arrest of Palestinian Prime Minister Haniyeh at the border crossing into Gaza from Egypt carrying an estimated $30 million in cash in suitcases for the Palestinian National Authority. The reason that Hamas has to operate this way is because the financial markets are not available to them. Instances like these highlight the importance, and indeed the benefit, of focusing on counterterrorism financing efforts. In essence, I am greatly concerned that the President is not doing enough - and that by meeting the President's request, we are not doing enough to stop the financing of terrorist operations. Again, I thank the Chairwoman for her attention to these pressing issues and hope that we can work together to continue these important counterterrorism efforts. -30-
06.14.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), the Democratic Chair of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, introduced the FinCEN Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2440), legislation that recognizes the important role of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) in monitoring and disrupting the flow of money to terrorist networks around the world. The bipartisan legislation is jointly cosponsored by Lynch's colleagues on the Task Force, Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA), Rep. Chris Carney (D-PA), Rep. Ron Klein (D-FL), and Republican Co-Chair Ed Royce (R-CA). FinCEN was established in 1990 as a bureau within the Department of Treasury's Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to serve as America's Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU). It is comprised of more than 300 analysts, technology experts and federal agents. FinCEN is one of more than 100 recognized FIUs around the globe whose missions are to work together to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. “FinCEN is the watchdog protecting the financial systems of America and her allies from financial crimes including terrorist financing, money laundering and the development of weapons of mass destruction,” said Congressman Lynch. “This bill reaffirms the importance of this critical bureau, and better enables FinCEN to disrupt terrorist activity in the future and train FIUs around the world to do the same.” The FinCEN Reauthorization Act will allow the bureau to improve information sharing between law enforcement and government agencies and intensify collaboration among the global network of FIUs. Congressman Lynch's bill enables FinCEN to meet these goals by increasing their previously under-funded budget by $12 million for Fiscal Year 2008, to $85.8 million. The additional funding will also be used to restore the cross-border wire transfer system and for the hiring of additional analysts to more effectively detect both illegal and terrorist activities. “Especially given FinCEN's new responsibilities as a partner in the Global War on Terror, this increase in funding is long overdue,” said Congressman Lynch. “If we can deny terrorists access to our financial markets, we can make it significantly more difficult for them to plan and execute acts of terror.” In his role as the Chair of the Terrorism and Proliferation Financing Task Force, Congressman Lynch recently led a Congressional Delegation to the Middle East and met with banking officials in Turkey, Jordan, Afghanistan and Iraq. Lynch has made it a priority of the Task Force to bring greater oversight and accountability to the international banking industry. Congressman Lynch said that he expects the Financial Services Committee to hold a hearing on the FinCEN Reauthorization Act later this summer. -30-
06.07.2007	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Ninth Congressional District in the month of June. Below is a list of upcoming office hours. Look for when staff members are coming to your town! Congressman Lynch maintains two full-time District Offices in Boston and Brockton, as well as his office in Washington, D.C. Residents of the 9th District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices. If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000. OPEN OFFICE HOURS: Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Monday, June 11, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Needham Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room, First Floor 1471 Highland Avenue, Needham Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Tuesday, June 12, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Holbrook Town Hall Office of the Veterans Agent 50 North Franklin Street, Holbrook Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto Tuesday, June 12, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Milton Town Hall Small Conference Room 525 Canton Avenue, Milton Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Tuesday, June 12, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Braintree Town Hall Auditorium One JFK Memorial Drive, Braintree Open Office Hours with Sarah Bonaiuto Tuesday, June 12, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Randolph Town Hall Lincoln Room 41 South Main Street, Randolph Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Wednesday, June 13, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Bridgewater Selectmen’s Office Memorial Building 25 South Street, Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Wednesday, June 13, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Easton Town Hall Mary Connolly Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 136 Elm Street, Easton Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Wednesday, June 13, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM West Bridgewater Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 65 North Main Street, West Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Wednesday, June 13, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Stoughton Town Hall Fitzpatrick Room, 1st Floor 10 Pearl Street, Stoughton Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, June 14, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Medfield Town Hall Warrant Committee Room 459 Main Street, Medfield Open Office Hours with Nick Zaferakis Thursday, June 14, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM South Boston Community Health Center Second Floor Conference Room 386 West Broadway, South Boston Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, June 14, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Walpole Town Hall Room 116 135 School Street, Walpole Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Tuesday, June 19, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Hanson Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 542 Liberty Street, Hanson Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Tuesday, June 19, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Westwood Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 580 High Street, Westwood Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Tuesday, June 19, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Whitman Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 54 South Avenue, Whitman Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Tuesday, June 19, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Dedham Town Administration Building Francis W. O’Brien Meeting Room 26 Bryant Street, Dedham Open Office Hours with Shaynah Barnes Wednesday, June 20, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM East Bridgewater Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 175 Central Street, East Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Wednesday, June 20, 2007 9:00 – 11:00 AM Canton Town Hall Salah Meeting Room 801 Washington Street, Canton Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Wednesday, June 20, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Norwood Town Hall Finance Committee Meeting Room 556 Washington Street, Norwood Open Office Hours with Dan Lynch Thursday, June 21, 2007 1:00 – 3:00 PM Roche Family Community Center Youth Community Room, First Floor 1716 Centre Street, West Roxbury -30-
06.06.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that Courtney Gouthro of Walpole won this year’s Congressional Art Competition in the Ninth Congressional District. The annual national art competition, called “An Artistic Discovery,” is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year. This year, dozens of entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and the judges, a group of leading local artists, had a difficult job in selecting the 2007 winner. In the end, they selected an acrylic painting entitled “American Flag” by Courtney Gouthro, a junior at Walpole High School. “Courtney Gouthro is a truly gifted young artist,” said Congressman Lynch, “and she is a wonderful reflection of her mother Carol Gouthro. In addition, her work reflects the superb instruction of Diana Hampe, her art teacher at Walpole High School. I hope that Courtney’s success will encourage other students from Walpole and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch noted that the competition had been especially tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students’ entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer. Congressman Lynch said, “It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.” -30-
05.23.2007	Washington, DC—The House Financial Services Committee today passed an amendment authored by Congressmen Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and Christopher Murphy (D-CT) that will make housing more affordable for low-income and disabled Americans, especially in high rent areas. The purpose of the amendment is to provide financial relief for low-income families who live in high rent areas, such as Boston, by providing them with greater subsidies than in relatively low housing cost areas such as the rural South and Midwest. The Lynch-Murphy amendment addresses a long-standing inequity in national housing policy which, in effect, provided less support for families living in high rent areas such as in the Northeast U.S. "This has been a matter of contention for many years", said Congressman Lynch. "As someone who grew up in public housing and who has worked as an attorney for public housing tenants, it is gratifying to get this fixed." The Lynch-Murphy amendment has been included in the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007 (H.R. 1851), which passed the committee by a large bipartisan majority. The bill now moves to a vote by the full House of Representatives. The cost of housing varies greatly throughout the United States. In expensive housing markets like Massachusetts, low-income families are forced to spend the majority of their income on rent and utility costs. This amendment would require state and local housing agencies to review the costs of housing in their regions, and give them the tools they need to make housing more affordable. Congressman Lynch said, “Today in Massachusetts and across this country, families face the combined threats of rising unemployment, falling wages and unaffordable housing. In my District alone, more than half of the 22,000 extremely low-income families are forced to spend more than 50% of their income on housing costs. Our amendment recognizes that the cost of rent in Boston is not the same as the cost of rent in Kansas City is not the same as the cost of rent in Birmingham, Alabama, and directs local housing officials to adjust the value of their Section 8 vouchers accordingly. It’s a matter of common sense.” The Lynch-Murphy Amendment was supported by a broad range of housing and disability groups, including the Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership, the Section 8 Administrators Association, the Hingham Housing Authority, the New England Housing Network, the Citizens’ Housing and Planning Association, and the Consortium for Citizens With Disabilities (which includes the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), The Arc of the United States (The Arc), United Cerebral Palsy (UCP), the National Disability Rights Network (NDRN), the American Network of Community Options and Resources (ANCOR), the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Easter Seals, the United Spinal Association, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society (NMSS), Mental Health America (MHA), and the Brain Injury Association (BIA)). Congressman Lynch added, “I thank my colleague Chris Murphy and Chairman Barney Frank and the other members of the Committee for their hard work and tremendous support of this important amendment, and I am hopeful that the Congress will act soon to approve the full legislation and extend a critical lifeline to struggling families nationwide.” -30-
04.24.2007	Financial security is virtually impossible without financial literacy. But for seniors who grew up in an age before Internet banking, ATMs and highly sophisticated fraud schemes, financial literacy may be difficult to achieve. Several programs exist to help seniors become better-informed about managing their finances, but they are often under-funded and difficult to access. To improve the financial literacy of seniors, and especially to help them avoid falling prey to criminal financial predators, I have introduced The Retirement Security Education Act (H.R. 531). This legislation will dedicate $100 million in funding to programs designed to promote knowledge of financial and retirement issues and to reduce abuse and fraud. Toward that end, I recently joined with former NBC White House Correspondent John Palmer, financial leaders and senior advocates to lead a public forum at the Striar Jewish Community Center in Stoughton – that will be broadcast nationwide on Retirement Living TV – to discuss The Retirement Security Education Act and the financial challenges that seniors today face. The bill would provide critical financial support for area agencies on aging and non-profit organizations that focus on retirement security. Those organizations would use the funding to create and expand consumer awareness and education programs for seniors across the country. Every day, seniors in our area face fraud, including telemarketing, sweepstakes promotions, health-related services, foreign money orders and risky loans. These schemes are perpetrated by individuals seeking to steal from unsuspecting seniors who do not have the resources or knowledge to defend themselves. Many local organizations, like South Shore Elder Services, have a proven track record of success in educating consumers and seniors about scams and the steps they can take in the event that they are targeted for fraud. We need more federal funding both to expand successful programs like those and to create new ones, so that they can reach out to seniors throughout <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Massachusetts and across the country. That is the principle idea behind the Retirement Security Education Act. The problems seniors face in avoiding these financial pitfalls are numerous. Low levels of savings, combined with high levels of personal debt, are serious issues for far too many Americans nearing retirement. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office reports that a quarter of baby boomer households have so far failed to accumulate enough savings for the future. Because women have longer life expectancies, the number of low-income older women is more than twice the number of low-income older men. Studies show a gender gap in all sources of retirement income, and for many of these women, they are dealing with personal financial issues for the first time, or maybe the first time in a long time, making them even more vulnerable to scams. The number of seniors facing these issues will only grow in the years to come. Over the next 30 years, the number of older Americans is expected to double to almost 75 million. And, over the next 25 years, the number of Americans over 65 years of age requiring long-term care services will double to approximately 12 million. That means seniors need to be even more vigilant about how they are protecting their pensions, retirement savings, and social security payments. Finally, telemarketing schemes, predatory lending practices, Internet fraud, and especially identity theft have risen dramatically in the Internet age. It is not hard to deduce who the victims of these frauds tend to be – America’s seniors. The Retirement Security Education Act is an important, immediate step we can take in the long march to ensure that older Americans are protected from financial fraud. Today is national "Financial Literacy Day.” Stephen F. Lynch is the Congressman from the 9th Congressional District of Massachusetts and the author of the Retirement Security Education Act. -30-
04.20.2007	On Thursday, April 19, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) and members of the Congressional Delegation (CODEL) he led to Iraq and Afghanistan met in the Oval Office of the White House with President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten, Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley and Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Candida Wolff. President Bush requested the meeting to discuss the findings of the CODEL during their seven-day trip to the Middle East. Members of the Lynch CODEL in attendance at the meeting were Rep. Christopher Shays (R-CT), Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC). Congressman Lynch said, "I think it is important that the President has accurate information -- that people are straight with him, brutally honest, regarding the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan.” "Our CODEL had an excellent opportunity to accompany our troops into one of the most violent Sunni neighborhoods of Baghdad where the Sunni and Shi'a militias are going at it and where al Qaeda is very active.” "I think the President needs to hear exactly how the ‘troop surge’ strategy is playing out on the ground.” "There were six members of Congress in our group, 3 Democrats and 3 Republicans, and not one member downplayed how dangerous the situation is or how heroic the conduct of our troops is.” "Similarly, since we also had a chance to travel to the Afghanistan/Pakistan border area near Waziristan where the Taliban threat has been growing, it was important to express our concerns, and the concerns of our men and women in uniform, directly to the President and the Vice President, and their national security staff.” Lynch concluded, "This is a critical time in Iraq, and we can’t allow political posturing to interfere with our mission— which is to have the Iraqis take responsibility and to bring American servicemen and women home as safely and as soon as possible.” This was Congressman Lynch’s sixth CODEL to Iraq and second to Afghanistan. The trip was intended to monitor the recent "surge" strategy in Baghdad and Anbar Province and to conduct congressional oversight of the Iraq Reconstruction process. In Afghanistan, Lynch met with President Hamid Karzai to assess the situation along the tribal areas along the border with Pakistan. As the Chairman of the House Task Force on Terrorist Financing and Proliferation, Lynch also met with central banking officials from several nations regarding transparency and anti-terrorist financing issues. -30-
04.13.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of "An Artistic Discovery,” the 26th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the artwork of all students who enter the competition will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall or Public Library. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by May 10, 2007. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Kenya Beaman. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://www.house.gov/lynch/, for more information on the competition. "I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition,” said Congressman Lynch. "Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I am proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, James Leonard of Avon, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” -30-
04.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Steve Lynch, today announced that the Braintree Police Department will receive $5,657 from the Department of Homeland Security as part of its Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). "Our first responders put their lives on the line and the least we can do is give them the very best equipment. This funding will allow the Braintree Police Department to purchase the tools they need to get the job done and maximize safety,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend DHS for providing our state’s law enforcement agencies with the equipment and technology they need, and I’m grateful to the men and women of the Braintree Police Department for their dedication and hard work.” "I commend the police officers of Braintree on their hard work and dedication to public safety,” said Senator Kennedy. "They risk their lives each day to protect the citizens of Braintree and deserve the best possible equipment to help them in their jobs they do so well. This federal funding is well-deserved.” Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Paul Frazier and the Braintree Police Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Braintree. This new night vision equipment will enable them to locate lost children, missing persons or fleeing suspects more quickly in an emergency. I'm thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief Frazier and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment." CEDAP provides first response training and equipment to law enforcement agencies and other emergency responders. $36.4 million in equipment and training has been awarded under the Department of Homeland Security to 2,000 first responder agencies nationally as part of FY 2006. For more information on CEDAP visit: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/equipment_cedap.htm -30-
04.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Steve Lynch, today announced that the Canton Police Department will receive $33,100 from the Department of Homeland Security as part of its Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). "Our first responders put their lives on the line and the least we can do is give them the very best equipment. This funding will allow the Canton Police Department to purchase the tools they need to get the job done and maximize safety,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend DHS for providing our state’s law enforcement agencies with the equipment and technology they need, and I’m grateful to the men and women of the Canton Police Department for their dedication and hard work.” "I commend the police officers of Canton on their hard work and dedication to public safety,” said Senator Kennedy. "They risk their lives each day to protect the citizens of Canton and deserve the best possible equipment to help them in their jobs they do so well. This federal funding is well-deserved.” Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Ken Berkowitz and the Canton Police Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Canton. This new surveillance equipment enhances video images and will better enable the Department to identify suspects and prevent crime. I’m thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief Berkowitz and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment.” CEDAP provides first response training and equipment to law enforcement agencies and other emergency responders. $36.4 million in equipment and training has been awarded under the Department of Homeland Security to 2,000 first responder agencies nationally as part of FY 2006. For more information on CEDAP visit: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/equipment_cedap.htm -30-
04.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Steve Lynch, today announced that the Milton Police Department will receive $4,564 from the Department of Homeland Security as part of its Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). "Our first responders put their lives on the line and the least we can do is give them the very best equipment. This funding will allow the Milton Police Department to purchase the tools they need to get the job done and maximize safety,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend DHS for providing our state’s law enforcement agencies with the equipment and technology they need, and I’m grateful to the men and women of the Milton Police Department for their dedication and hard work.” "I commend the police officers of Milton on their hard work and dedication to public safety,” said Senator Kennedy. "They risk their lives each day to protect the citizens of Milton and deserve the best possible equipment to help them in their jobs they do so well. This federal funding is well-deserved.” Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Kevin Mearn and the Milton Police Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Milton. This new night vision equipment will enable them to locate lost children, missing persons or fleeing suspects more quickly in an emergency. I'm thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief Mearn and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment." CEDAP provides first response training and equipment to law enforcement agencies and other emergency responders. $36.4 million in equipment and training has been awarded under the Department of Homeland Security to 2,000 first responder agencies nationally as part of FY 2006. For more information on CEDAP visit: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/equipment_cedap.htm -30-
04.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Steve Lynch, today announced that the Norwood Police Department will receive $12,670 from the Department of Homeland Security as part of its Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). "Our first responders put their lives on the line and the least we can do is give them the very best equipment. This funding will allow the Norwood Police Department to purchase the tools they need to get the job done and maximize safety,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend DHS for providing our state’s law enforcement agencies with the equipment and technology they need, and I’m grateful to the men and women of the Norwood Police Department for their dedication and hard work.” "I commend the police officers of Norwood on their hard work and dedication to public safety,” said Senator Kennedy. "They risk their lives each day to protect the citizens of Norwood and deserve the best possible equipment to help them in their jobs they do so well. This federal funding is well-deserved.” Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Bartley King, Jr. and the Norwood Police Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Norwood. This new thermal imaging equipment will enable them to locate lost children, missing persons or fleeing suspects more quickly in an emergency. I'm thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief King and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment." CEDAP provides first response training and equipment to law enforcement agencies and other emergency responders. $36.4 million in equipment and training has been awarded under the Department of Homeland Security to 2,000 first responder agencies nationally as part of FY 2006. For more information on CEDAP visit: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/equipment_cedap.htm -30-
04.04.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressman Stephen Lynch, today announced that the Dedham Police Department will receive $10,553 from the Department of Homeland Security as part of its Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). "Our first responders put their lives on the line and the least we can do is give them the very best equipment. This funding will allow the Dedham Police Department to purchase the tools they need to get the job done and maximize safety,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend DHS for providing our state’s law enforcement agencies with the equipment and technology they need, and I’m grateful to the men and women of the Dedham Police Department for their dedication and hard work.” "I commend the police officers of Dedham on their hard work and dedication to public safety,” said Senator Kennedy. "They risk their lives each day to protect the citizens of Dedham and deserve the best possible equipment to help them in their jobs they do so well. This federal funding is well-deserved.” Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Mike Weir and the Dedham Police Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Dedham. This new thermal imaging equipment will enable them to locate lost children, missing persons or fleeing suspects more quickly in an emergency. I'm thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief Weir and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment." CEDAP provides first response training and equipment to law enforcement agencies and other emergency responders. $36.4 million in equipment and training has been awarded under the Department of Homeland Security to 2,000 first responder agencies nationally as part of FY 2006. For more information on CEDAP visit: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/equipment_cedap.htm -30-
03.30.2007	On Wednesday March 28th, the House of Representatives approved an amendment offered by Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) to The Rail & Public Transportation Security Act (H.R. 1401). Lynch’s amendment would order the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a thorough assessment of the progress that rail and mass transit transportation providers make in providing basic security training to their front-line workers. Specifically, Congressman Lynch’s amendment would require within one year that the Secretary of Homeland Security submit a comprehensive progress report to Congress on the steps that rail and mass transit entities have taken to meet the worker training requirements in the Act. The Department of Homeland Security must also conduct a worker survey on whether our front-line rail and mass transit workers have actually received this basic security training. Congressman Lynch, member of the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, said, "Six years after September 11th, three years after the Madrid bombings, and two years after the bombings in London, the United States has still not taken the necessary steps to improve rail security,” said Congressman Lynch. "This amendment will ensure that our rail workers receive terrorism prevention and response training, so that we are prepared to prevent and respond to a terrorist attack or disaster on the rails.” In November 2006, the National Labor College (NLC), in conjunction with Citizens for Rail Safety, Inc., released a key rail security study entitled "Training in Hazmat and Rail Security: Current Status and Future Needs of Rail Workers and Community Members.” That study found that our nation’s rail workers severely lack basic and necessary emergency prevention and response training. The NLC study came on the heels of a 2005 rail worker safety report prepared by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Rail Conference that revealed that 84% of the rail workers surveyed had not received any terrorism prevention and response training within the last year. Lynch added, "Whether it is the rail attacks in London, Madrid or Mumbai, terrorists have more than indicated their willingness to execute bold attacks on rail and transit systems worldwide. There are five times as many people who travel by train as compared to those who use airplanes. But since September 11th, the United States has spent 60 times more dollars on airline security than on rail security. Many of our rail systems have emergency response plans, but they’re worthless if rail workers don’t know they exist. It’s time to establish clear guidelines for emergency training, and prepare our rail workers to respond to a terrorist attack.” The Rail & Public Transportation Security Act was approved by the House of Representatives on March 29, and will be sent to the Senate for consideration. -30-
03.30.2007	Washington, DC—The House Financial Services Committee has passed an amendment authored by Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA) to require the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE) of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to require that affordable housing goals include 1- to 4- family rental housing properties, simply defined as "single family rental housing units” and found most commonly throughout the Boston area. An example of this type of housing would include the "triple-deckers,” in which a homebuyer purchases three adjoining units, lives in one unit, and rents out the other two units. Without the Lynch amendment, GSEs’ performance in serving this segment of the affordable rental housing market would not be both encouraged and measured. The Lynch amendment has been included in the legislation to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, originally introduced by Chairman Barney Frank, and passed the committee by a large bipartisan majority. The bill now moves to a vote by the full House of Representatives. Congressman Lynch said, "Today in Massachusetts and across this country, families face the combined threats of rising unemployment, falling wages and unaffordable housing. As someone who grew up in public housing, I've seen the benefits that reliable, long-term affordable housing initiatives can provide to struggling families. This amendment will enable Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to work with owners of multi-unit single family homes and triple-deckers to create more rental units for low-income families, at a time when waiting lists for affordable housing grow longer by the day. I thank Chairman Barney Frank and the other members of the Committee for their hard work and tremendous support of this important amendment, and I am hopeful that the Congress will act soon to approve the full legislation and extend a critical lifeline to struggling families nationwide.” The Lynch amendment has been included in H.R. 1427, the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act of 2007. The bill will overhaul the regulatory oversight of the government sponsored enterprises (GSE) of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks, and create a new, independent regulator with broad powers analogous to current banking regulators. In addition, the bill creates an off-budget and non-taxpayer financed affordable housing fund, which will dedicate hundreds of millions of dollars for the construction, maintenance and preservation of affordable housing. The first year of this fund will be dedicated to the hurricane stricken areas of the Gulf Coast with billions of dollars over the next five years to be used for affordable housing nationwide. Frank and Lynch will hold a congressional field hearing entitled "Household Incomes and Housing Costs: A New Squeeze for American Families,” to focus on the combined impact of the slow growth of household incomes and the pattern of housing costs increases on (a) the ability of American families to find safe and affordable housing, and (b) the ability of employers to recruit and retain employees. The Committee will explore how the increase in income inequality may have fueled increases in housing costs and priced large numbers of American families out of previously affordable communities. The Committee is also seeking to examine the appropriateness and adequacy of current federal policy to support the production of affordable housing – for both the rental and homeowner markets. "Far too many American families face a double whammy when they look for housing. For most Americans, incomes have been stagnant for more than two decades while housing costs have soared,” said Congressman Frank. "Growing income inequality has priced the majority out of previously affordable communities.” -30-
03.30.2007	BOSTON – March 30, 2007 – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA 9th) and Retirement Living TV today taped for national broadcast a public forum on improving financial literacy among seniors. Rep. Lynch is the author of House Resolution 531, the "Retirement Security Education Act of 2007,” a bill designed to enhance and promote knowledge of financial and retirement issues as well as to reduce financial abuse and fraud among older Americans. Retirement Living TV is the nation’s only cable network aimed at Americans 55 and older. Congressman Lynch and Retirement Living TV taped the hour-long program at the Striar Jewish Community Center in Stoughton, Massachusetts. Retirement Living TV’s John Palmer, former news anchor for NBC’s The Today Show, emceed the program. He and Rep. Lynch were joined by Norfolk District Attorney Bill Keating, retirement advisor Martin Rotenberg of Bank of America, and Annamaria Lusardi, an economics professor at Dartmouth University. "I have the honor of representing 80,000 seniors in my District," said Congressman Lynch. "Many are managing their finances alone for the first time in their lives, leaving them especially vulnerable to identity theft and fraud. My hope is that this legislation will make it easier for every senior in our state and our country to become better informed about how to protect themselves and strengthen their financial security." The forum focused on several issues, including saving for retirement, protecting oneself from identity theft and identifying existing programs and agencies that Boston-area seniors can turn to for up-to-date information and advice. "Computers and the internet have changed the landscape of personal finance for everyone, including seniors," District Attorney Keating said. "Many financial problems and financial crimes can be prevented through education - in events like today's forum and through outreach and education seminars like those we make available in Norfolk County." Emcee John Palmer is the host of "The Prudent Advisor" on Retirement Living TV. Palmer’s broadcast news career spans four decades, including stints as NBC’s White House correspondent and as news anchor at The Today Show. Palmer also anchored "World Monitor with John Palmer,” the Christian Science Monitor’s daily national news broadcast. Retirement Living TV can be seen each day in more than 25 million homes across the country, between 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. on the Direct TV network and between 12:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. on Comcast’s CN8 in Boston. For more information, please contact Jack Deschauer at Qorvis Communications, LLC, at 202-448-3134 or jdeschauer@qorvis.com. -30-
03.26.2007	On Friday, March 30, 2007, from the Striar Jewish Community Center in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Stoughton, Massachusetts, Rep. Stephen Lynch will lead a forum on financial literacy for seniors for Retirement Living TV, the nation’s only cable network aimed at Americans 55 and older. Rep. Lynch is the author of House Resolution 531, the "Retirement Security Education Act of 2007” which aims to enhance knowledge of financial issues as well as reduce financial abuse and fraud among seniors. The event will be emceed by John Palmer, former NBC White House Correspondent and current anchor of "The Prudent Advisor” on Retirement Living TV. They will be joined by speakers from the law enforcement, financial and educational sectors. Retirement Living TV can be seen every day in more than 25 million homes, on the Direct TV network between 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. and weekday afternoons between 12:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. on CN8 in the metropolitan Boston area. WHAT: A nationally broadcast forum on financial literacy for seniors WHO: Retirement Living TV (Host) John Palmer, Former NBC White House Correspondent and Today Show News Anchor (Emcee) Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA 9th) Bill Keating, Norfolk District Attorney Martin Rotenberg, Retirement Advisor, Bank of America Annamaria Lusardi, Professor of Economics, Dartmouth University WHERE: Striar Jewish Community Center on the Fireman Campus 445 Central Street Stoughton, Massachusetts 02072 WHEN: Friday, March 30, 2007, 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. -30-
03.20.2007	On Tuesday, March 20, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) testified at the House Committee on Foreign Affairs’ hearing, "U.S. Policy in Iraq.” Congressman Lynch was asked by the Committee to testify on his legislation, "The Iraq Transition Act” (H.R. 533), legislation that would speed the transition of control of basic government functions from the U.S. military to the Iraqi government, enabling us to begin withdrawal of our troops. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Representative Tom Lantos (D-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said, "Rep. Lynch provided thought-provoking testimony on his legislation concerning the most pressing foreign policy issue that America confronts today – the conflict in Iraq. The legislation is thoughtful and serious. I appreciate this opportunity to hear from him, and the Committee will consider the legislation carefully.” Lynch serves on the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs and has traveled to Iraq five times. He is planning to return to Iraq and Afghanistan in the next month. Below is the text of Congressman Lynch’s remarks: Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen, and Members of the Committee, I’d like to thank you for the opportunity to testify before you this morning. After five visits to Iraq, I continue to be struck by the inability of the Iraqi government to step up and take over control of Iraq’s basic operations. Instead, four years later, it is still our brave sons and daughters who are responsible for the daily operations in that country. This week, as Congress debates troop withdrawal based on specific benchmarks for the Iraqi government, I would like to propose a mechanism to more effectively hold the Iraqi government accountable for attaining these benchmarks and create the conditions necessary for an orderly withdrawal. Drawing from the lessons of history, I recommend the establishment of a national bipartisan commission comprised of appointees from the White House, House and Senate, whose specific and targeted purpose would be to help facilitate an orderly, deliberate, and expeditious transition from U.S. military control to Iraqi civilian control. After five visits to Iraq and dozens of meetings with General George Casey, General Abizaid, General Petraeus, and top generals and officers in the field, as well as Iraqi President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliki and members of the Iraqi Council of Representatives, I believe that the critical weakness in our current strategy is the persistent reluctance of the Iraqi government to take control of government operations. For example, when I was in Fallujah last April and local residents experienced problems with water and electricity, it was engineers from the United States Marines that went out to get the water and electricity running again. These are functions that by now should be in the hands of the Iraqi government. They were elected over two years ago, yet they still do not handle the basic day-to-day duties of the government. Not only does this place further strain on United States troops, it also undermines the Iraqi government. Despite U.S. efforts to date to promote the emergence of a free-standing Iraqi government and political system, the view amongst Iraqis that the United States is running their country has doubled in the past year. If the Iraqi people continue to rely on the United States and coalition forces for the daily duties of government and consider their own Iraqi government a mere puppet, the credibility of the Iraqi government will deteriorate even faster. Instead, the Iraqi government needs to step up and take control. It is only human nature that as long as someone is willing to do everything for you, and pay for it, you will let them. Consequently, the United States needs to implement a structure that will create conditions necessary for U.S. withdrawal. This proposed Commission on Iraqi Transition would be held directly responsible for working with the military leadership and Department of State to accomplish the transition to Iraqi civilian control and to regularly report its progress to the Congress, the President and the American people. This is a tested model, based on the U.S. experience in the Philippines at the end of World War II. After driving Japanese forces from the Philippines with the help of the Filipino resistance, the U.S. military found itself in complete control of the Philippines. In the absence of a stable Philippine government, the U.S. military assumed responsibility for basic government services. While U.S. policy at the time strongly supported Filipino independence, the U.S. military had no choice but to temporarily exercise control under the fragile circumstances. Clearly, that situation could not endure indefinitely, and what the Congress and the Roosevelt Administration, and later the Truman Administration, did next was instructive and, I think, worth repeating. In 1944, the Congress passed and President Roosevelt signed the Filipino Rehabilitation Act, which created a national commission, comprised of three appointees each from the White House, the House and the Senate. Their mission was to plan, coordinate, and oversee the transition of government operations from the U.S. military to the nascent Filipino government. Of course, there are certainly differences between the situations on the ground in the Philippines in 1944 and Iraq in 2007. But we can still learn valuable lessons from history and implement structures that have succeeded before. It is important to remember that the transition to civilian control in Iraq is truly a political process. And while I have many times witnessed the excellence with which our military has performed in Iraq, I also believe it is a strategic disservice to the military for us to add the burden of political reconciliation to the massive security and reconstruction missions that they are now shouldering. While this approach may not satisfy those advocating for immediate withdrawal or those supporting the president’s surge, I believe it offers a responsible and workable plan for two important reasons. Firstly, it introduces a level of direct accountability to the political transition process that does not now exist and has made measuring progress extremely difficult. And secondly, it has precedent and success to support it and may offer the best opportunity for the earliest withdrawal of U.S. forces, while leaving the Iraqi people with the greatest chance for embracing their nascent democracy. I look forward to working with this committee to push forward responsible legislation on Iraq. I hope that they will join me in this regard and support H.R. 533. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back the remainder of my time. -30-
03.13.2007	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />BOSTON – Senator John Kerry, Senator Edward Kennedy, and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, along with the rest of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation today urged the Secretary of Defense to reconsider the plan eliminate the designation of the Balkans and Kosovo as Combat Zones. As a result of the designation change, guard members will lose their Imminent Danger Pay and various other economic entitlements, putting an unnecessary financial burden on their families back home. "Adding undue financial burdens on our soldiers’ economic benefits in the middle of their deployment is wrong. When these brave men and women signed on for their service, they were told one thing – and now they’re being told another,” said Senator Kerry. "The government that sends our troops into harm’s way must do better by our brave men and women in uniform. Our troops make the ultimate commitment and we must not fail them. I promise to continue to work with my colleagues in Washington to help prevent these wrong headed changes from taking place.” "The entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation has spoken out against this sudden change in designation of the Balkans as a combat zone while so many of our soldiers are deployed there. The change in designation would impose severe financial hardship on the 500 Army National Guard soldiers from Massachusetts serving there. It’s an unfair burden that will mean real hardship for our soldiers,” said Senator Kennedy. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Relations, said, "At a time when we are asking more of our National Guardsmen and women than ever before, we should be focusing on how we can alleviate the burden on these brave men and women and their families, not add to it. The Administration should be ashamed of this move, which would hurt those who have sacrificed the most, and they should immediately reverse it." The text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Gates: We’re writing about the plan to eliminate the designation of the Balkans and Kosovo as Combat Zones as April 1. We have significant concerns about how this mid-rotation designation change will affect the Army National Guard soldiers – including approximately 500 Massachusetts soldiers – who are serving in this region. Recent reports of continued violence make this issue especially pressing. The loss of Imminent Danger Pay as a result of the designation will have a serious effect on the National Guard members’ families. Currently, these service members are receiving an additional $225 a month in Imminent Danger Pay and have budgeted in accord with this allowance. These families are already under considerable financial strain because of the deployments, and the loss of the pay will impose an even more significant burden. The change in designation also means that these National Guard members will lose their combat zone tax exclusion for their active duty pay; their re-enlistment bonus; their leave pay; and other entitlements. Making these changes in the middle of their deployment will make matters worse for members of the National Guard and their families at home. When our soldiers began this deployment they assumed that their pay and benefits would be commensurate with their sacrifice. Reducing their benefits when their commitment remains the same is very likely to undermine their morale as well. We understand that your Office is conducting a review to determine whether or not the Balkans and Kosovo continue to justify Combat Zone designation. We ask that no change of designation be made during the current rotation. Thank you for considering our request. With respect and appreciation, John Kerry Edward Kennedy Edward Markey John Olver Richard Neal Jim McGovern Barney Frank Marty Meehan John Tierney Michael Capuano Stephen Lynch William Delahunt -30-
03.13.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated the following local students for appointments to United States Service Academies: <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT: Candidate Parents Hometown School Erik Akerblom William & Diane Akerblom Brockton Brockton HS Christopher Coombs Philip & Alfrida Coombs West Roxbury Boston Latin School Michael Costin Dennis & Judeth Costin South Boston Boston Collegiate Charter School Joseph Gallo Robert & Barbara Gallo Norwood Norwood HS Andrew Maxwell Steve & Helen Maxwell Needham St. Sebastian’s School Michael Shea Joseph & Geraldine Shea Medfield Medfield HS Ryan Tompkins Ronald & Denise Tompkins Boston Boston Latin School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY AT ANNAPOLIS: Candidate Parents Hometown School Patrick Ahern Brian & Beth Ahern Westwood Westwood HS Joseph Carroll Daniel & Maureen Carroll Norwood Norwood HS Christopher Coombs Philip & Alfrida Coombs West Roxbury Boston Latin School Michael Costin Dennis & Judeth Costin South Boston Boston Collegiate Charter School Michael Mearn Kevin & Donna Mearn Milton Boston College HS, College of the Holy Cross William Moccia James & Maureen Moccia Hyde Park Boston Latin Academy Colcord Moore Dr. Francis & Carla Moore Medfield Catholic Memorial HS, Salisbury School Matthew Norton Janet Norton South Boston O’Bryant HS Ari Polivy Leonard & Catherine Polivy Canton Blue Hills Regional Technical School Michael Shea Joseph & Geraldine Shea Medfield Medfield HS Devon Stewart Clairemarie Rodgers-Stewart West Bridgewater Boston College HS Jessica Sproule George & Judith Sproule East Bridgewater East Bridgewater HS Ryan Tompkins Ronald & Denise Tompkins Boston Boston Latin School U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY AT COLORADO SPRINGS: Candidate Parents Hometown School Patrick Ahern Brian & Beth Ahern Westwood Westwood HS Paul Crosby Kenneth & Janet Crosby Bridgewater Coyle Cassidy HS Christopher Leung Wendy & Krun Ping Leung Randolph Randolph HS, Boston University Samuel Major Steven & Trudence Major Medfield Medfield HS David Quach Bill Quach, Canton Canton HS Jenny Quach-Zhang As part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch annually nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements as well as letters of recommendation. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District. These students stood out as young men and women of keen intelligence and strong character. They are wonderful reflections of their parents. Their families, their hometowns, and the entire state should be proud of them in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today was named Democratic Chairman of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, an active bipartisan coalition in the effort to track and disrupt the financing of terrorist activity. Lynch has been one of the Democrats’ most active members on the task force, which had been led by former Congresswoman Sue Kelly (R-NY) for the past two years. The task force will monitor national and international efforts to track and stop the flow of funds to terrorist groups and work to strengthen international anti-terrorist finance strategy. Congressman Lynch will be joined by Co-Chairman and Founder of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation Financing, Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA), who has been a leader in Congress on this issue. Congressman Lynch, who also serves on the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Relations, said, “While there was great support and some important progress in our anti-terorrist efforts in the months following the September 11th attacks, we have seen some signs of backsliding and some resistance to anti-money laundering efforts in some areas in the Middle East.” “We still have a lot of work to do before we can accurately monitor and disrupt funding for terrorist groups around the world,” continued Lynch. “Some nations' banks have actively partnered with the United States to expose terrorist financing; others have been reluctant to help. This is a global problem that requires the participation of every nation, and we must be willing to work harder to encourage that cooperation.” Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said, “I am pleased that Congressman Lynch has taken the initiative to head up this important task force. The issue of terrorist financing is critical in our fight against terrorism, both at home and abroad. The strong link between the Financial Services Committee and the task force will ensure that all aspects of terrorism financing will be explored and investigated. Again, I commend Congressman Lynch and the members of the task force for their willingness to take on this important issue and I look forward to working with them during the 110th Congress”. Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA) said, “I look forward to working with my colleague, Rep. Stephen Lynch, on anti-terrorist financing matters. The Task Force serves a forum where Members can bring to the forefront the issue of terrorist financing. We cannot win the war on terror unless the global community works to cut off the flow of funds terrorists use and receive. Certain terrorist acts do not require vast amounts of funding; however, the costs of indoctrination, recruitment, and sustainability are quite high. If these rogue, terror groups have no financial support, it is difficult for them to continue to operate effectively.” In its Final Report, the 9/11 Commission asserted that, “[v]igorous efforts to track terrorist financing must remain front and center in U.S. counterterrorism efforts.” However, according to the Report Card on implementation of the Commission's recommendations, our efforts against terrorist financing are currently hampered by “turf battles” between competing government agencies and an overall lack of leadership. Congress has taken significant steps towards utilizing terrorist financing as a viable intelligence tool as well as disrupting the financing of terrorist activities. Nevertheless, terrorists' proven ability to move money through innovative means necessitates continued progress in this critical counterterrorism area. Congressman Lynch noted that trade negotiations with other nations are an ideal opportunity to insist that our trade partners establish Financial Intelligence Units, or FIUs, that will monitor activity in those nations. Lynch said that he will make it a priority of the Task Force to bring greater oversight to the international banking industry. -30-
02.15.2007	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) declared his support for the Iraq Resolution (H. Con. Res. 63) and made the following statement on the Iraq War on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 63 which opposes the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. I do so because I am in agreement with Generals Casey and Abizaid who have said that what is needed in Iraq is a political solution, not a military one. I've had a chance to travel to Iraq 5 times now, and based on my observations in places like Fallujah and Tikrit and Al Qaim out on the Syrian border, I firmly believe it is the Iraqi people who must ultimately decide whether they are more committed to building a better life for their children through democracy or whether they are more committed to an all-or-nothing sectarian conflict between Sunni and Sh'ia. Madam Speaker, I believe that packing more troops into the narrow streets of Baghdad will be a disaster. Madam Speaker, as our daily briefings indicate, the dominant conflict on the ground is no longer coalition forces against al Qaeda and supporters of the Baathist regime. As the daily body counts of tortured and executed Iraqis indicate, the prevailing conflict on the streets of Baghdad is a brutal civil war between Sunni and Sh'ia militias, with our troops in the middle. In fact, a December hearing that I attended was entitled, "Iraq: Democracy or Civil War? What will it take to achieve a national reconciliation?” Basically, as this hearing pointed out, the central mission that we have given our troops is to reconcile the differences between Sunni and Sh'ia in Iraq. Well, just to be clear on this, the Sunni and the Sh'ia have been in frequent conflict since the year 632 AD, after the death of the prophet Muhammad. What we're trying to do, in essence, is to convince the Iraqis to stop killing each other. We have asked our brave sons and daughters to take up a police action, or essentially a civil affairs action, not a combat mission, going door to door in Baghdad. Yes, the mission in Iraq has changed. I have to wonder how many votes would the President and Vice President have gotten initially if they had said, we want to send our daughters and our sons in uniform to reconcile the differences between the Sunni and the Sh'ia who have been fighting for 1375 years? And we need to go door to door in Baghdad to do it? Not many I think. But that's where we now find ourselves and our troops. Yes, the mission in Iraq has changed drastically but the president is staying the course, more than that, he's decided to push even harder in the wrong direction. Well, now is the time that the American people want to know "What will the Congress do?" Many of my colleagues believe that this resolution doesn't go far enough, and while I tend to agree with that, I do believe this resolution represents a solid and instructive first step. I do know that in coming weeks we will debate how to protect our troops while expediting the transition to Iraqi control Lastly, I'd like to address the argument that if we don't fight the terrorists in Iraq, we'll fight them on Main Street USA. As I said before, I've been to Iraq five times and one of the questions I've repeatedly asked our generals and the officers on the ground is this..."How much of this fight is against jihadist, Salafists, foreign fighters, and al Qaeda in Iraq?" ... The true terrorists? I was impressed that even among a wide range of combat commanders the answer has been nearly unanimous - that about 10% of the fighters in Iraq are foreign fighters and jihadists as part of the global war on terror. They also confirmed that 90% of what's going on in Iraq is about Sunni vs. Sh'ia. It's about a sectarian war and revenge killings that are homegrown in Iraq. In fact, in November the Defense Department report argued that the Mahdi Army, the main Shiite militia, has replaced al Qaeda in Iraq as the most dangerous force increasing violence there. So we are spending $8 billion a month in Iraq and 90% of that conflict and 90% of that cost is not part of the global war on terror. Meanwhile, we have a situation in south east Afghanistan and Waziristan, where the Taliban who actually sponsored and supported al Qaeda's attacks are building up support And Pakistan has basically allowed a safe haven to be established for the Taliban. If we are indeed committed to protecting America, I would suggest there are smarter and better ways to do it. Yes. The American people are waiting for this congress to take a stand. It's time to step up. I ask my colleagues to support this resolution. It is the first step in bringing the troops home. Madam Speaker, I yield the balance of my time. -30-
02.08.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) today was named as one of the "Best Representatives for Children” BY the Children's Defense Fund Action Council (CDFAC). CDFAC released its 2006 Congressional Scorecard today, which grades every Member of Congress based on key votes affecting children. According to CDFAC, Congressman Lynch voted to protect the health and well being of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Massachusetts' children 100 percent of the time. Lynch was one of a few who achieved a perfect rating, voting to support increased investment in education and health care programs for children. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> "I applaud Congressman Lynch for his commitment to improving the lives of children in Massachusetts,” said CDF President Marian Wright Edelman. "While the rest of Congress found time to give tax breaks to powerful special interests and the wealthiest Americans, Congressman Lynch instead voted to make the health and well-being of children in Massachusetts the priority. Stephen Lynch is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best Representatives for children.” The Children's Defense Fund (CDF) Action Council educates the nation about the needs of children and encourages preventative investment before they get sick or into trouble, drop out of school, or suffer family breakdown. The CDF Action Council began in 1969 and is a private, non-profit organization that has never taken government funds. To see the 2006 Congressional Scorecard in its entirety, visit: www.cdfactioncouncil.org. -30-
02.07.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) today applauded the passage of H.R. 365, the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007. The bill directs the Environmental Protection Agency to develop health-based guidelines to assist state and local authorities in cleaning up former meth lab sites. "The chemicals used in meth production pose severe health and environmental dangers,” said Congressman Lynch, "which can continue to exist long after a lab has been shut down. Meth labs are frequently found in houses and apartments, risking the well-being of not only the people currently living there, but also that of future inhabitants and neighbors.” In addition to creating guidelines for meth lab cleanup, the bill will provide funding for research on the long-term health impacts on first-responders and children rescued from meth lab sites. And the bill would fund education programs for law enforcement on finding, shutting down, and cleaning sites. According to a 2006 National Drug Threat Survey of state and local law enforcement agencies across the nation, methamphetamine was named most often as the greatest drug threat in communities. In <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Massachusetts, the number of meth labs seized by the Drug Enforcement Agency has increased significantly in recent years. "Cleaning up meth lab sites is a costly, and extremely dangerous, venture,” said Congressman Lynch. "This legislation will ensure that that work is done properly and that the safety of law enforcement, neighbors, and children is protected, by setting guidelines for effective cleanup.” Substance abuse prevention and treatment has been a priority for Congressman Lynch for more than a decade. He worked with local labor unions and contractors, New England Medical Center, and Cole Hersee Manufacturing Company to establish the Cushing House, a residential rehabilitation center for adolescent men. In 2005, they teamed up again to open a new wing of the Cushing House for young women. As Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, he held field hearings in Boston on the regulation of Schedule II prescription painkillers like OxyContin. And last year, Congressman Lynch’s amendment commissioning a study on the addiction rates of prescription drugs like OxyContin won overwhelming passage in the U.S. House of Representatives. -30-
01.31.2007	On Tuesday, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />January 30, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch took part in the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform's Hearing on "Political Interference with Science: Global Warming." The hearing focused on evidence and examples of the Bush Administration's interference with the work of government climate change scientists. Specifically, the Committee heard testimony from and questioned Dr. Francesca Grifo (Senior Scientist and Director of the Scientific Integrity Program, Union of Concerned Scientists), Mr. Rick Piltz (Director, Climate Science Watch, Government Accountability Project) and Dr. Drew Shindell (Goddard Institute for Space Studies, National Aeronautics and Space Administration). During the hearing, Congressman Lynch criticized the Bush Administration for its decision to put a former oil industry lobbyist, lawyer Philip Cooney, in charge of the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ). Additionally, Lynch questioned witness Rick Piltz regarding reports that Cooney, as chief of staff at CEQ, edited government scientific documents in order to downplay the links between greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. Piltz testified that Cooney did, in fact, make edits to several science program reports in 2002 and 2003. The Hearing also marked the release of a joint report prepared by the Union of Concerned Scientists and the Government Accountability Project. The report documented that nearly half of government scientists felt pressured to eliminate the words "climate change," "global warming," or similar terms from their scientific communications. And, 43% of government scientists saw their work or the work of others changed or edited during review in ways that changed the meaning of their scientific findings. In all, government climate scientists reported at least 435 incidents of political interference. 150 of those scientists personally experienced political interference in their work. On Tuesday night, ABC News aired a segment on the Committee's hearing, featuring comments by Congressman Lynch. To view the segment, click on the following link: https://abcnews.go.com/Video/playerIndex?id=2836413. -30-
01.24.2007	Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Senator John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Bridgewater Fire Department would be receiving $101,000 in federal funding under the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistant to Firefighters Grant program. The funds will be used to replace contained breathing apparatuses and upgrade fire hoses. Senator Kennedy said, "The brave men and women who serve in the Bridgewater Fire Department work skillfully every day to keep the people of their community safe. These funds will allow the Department to do their jobs more safely and effectively, and I commend the members of the Department for their courage and dedication.” "Our first responders need every resource available to protect our communities, and I’m thrilled that our Bridgewater Fire Department is getting the funding it needs to enhance its emergency response capabilities,” said Senator Kerry. "I’m incredibly grateful for the service of the brave firefighters in Bridgewater.” Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief George Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Bridgewater. Working together with Representative Dave Flynn, Senator Mark Pacheco and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base." Fire Chief George Rogers said, "I would like to say how important this money is in tough budget times. When most of our budget goes to salaries, this money will allow us to increase the safety to our firefighters and perform better services to the citizens of Bridgewater.” -30-
01.23.2007	There was no shortage of issues in the President’s speech. However, having listened to six of these annual addresses, I must admit that I’ve found from experience that there is often no correlation between what the President says is important and what the President actually does. I've become skeptical. I remember in one of President Bush's earliest addresses he mentioned veteran's health care and I was greatly encouraged because that was an issue I was working hard on. Well it turned out that all he did was mention it. That was it. The Administration went on to grossly under-fund veteran's health care. Then I heard the President talk about education. He signed the No Child Left Behind Act and went around the country taking credit for great progress. Then, when the Administration’s budget came out, President Bush didn't fund the initiatives that were passed in the bill. Similarly, in last year's State of the Union speech, President Bush said that <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />America was addicted to oil, suggesting that he was going to change our energy policy. In fact there has been very little change. The President also predicted in last year’s address that we were winning the war in Iraq and that we "should be able to further decrease our troops levels,” yet here again, this evening he has asked for more troops, not less. In November, the American people called for real change in Washington, and a new direction for our nation. Democrats have responded. In less than two weeks after taking control of the Congress, we passed legislation that will reform ethics laws for Members of Congress, implement the recommendations of the 9/11 commission, increase the minimum wage, expand stem cell research, require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate lower drug prices for our seniors, end the subsidies for oil companies and invest in renewable energy. Importantly, we achieved each of these legislative successes with the support of bipartisan majorities in the House. Tonight, President Bush in his words seemed to embrace that same spirit of partnership and innovation when he proposed dramatically scaling back American consumption of gasoline. And I couldn't agree more with his proposal. No matter how many dollars we invest in developing alternative energies, it is critical to recognize that those will be one component of our long-term solution to the energy crisis. If we are truly serious about reducing our dependence on foreign oil in the short-term, we must immediately begin to consume less gasoline. Only time will tell if the President is really serious about this. But the important thing is that the Democrats are in control of Congress now and we are serious about all of these issues. Our task is to hold the President accountable for his promises as we have held ourselves responsible over these last few weeks. I look forward to working together with President Bush and my colleagues in Congress on this worthwhile endeavor. -30-
01.19.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) joined House Democrats today in bringing the "100 Hours Agenda” to a successful conclusion - fulfilling Democrats' promise to pass legislation reflecting the values and priorities of the American people within the first 100 legislative hours in the House of Representatives. "The people of the Ninth Congressional District, and all across this nation, sent a resounding message that they wanted a new direction for our country, and that's exactly what we aim to do,” Congressman Lynch said. "The successful completion of the '100 Hours Agenda' by the House of Representatives demonstrates our commitment to restore accountability in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, and put our country back on the right track.” "From sweeping ethics reform, to restoring fiscal responsibility, to strengthening our national security, to giving more Americans a realistic shot at the American Dream, the new Democratic Majority is committed to real and lasting results for the people we serve. We hope to change the way that business is done in Washington,” added Congressman Lynch. Lynch went on to note that each of the "100 Hours Agenda” items passed the House with broad bipartisan support. "I have always believed that reaching across the aisle is the best way to get something done, and to restore civility and cooperation to government. I am hopeful that both parties in the Congress will continue to put progress ahead of partisanship.” The House has passed the following items since the start of the 110th Congress: Ethics Reform, 1/4/07, Passed 430-1 (D 232-0; R 198-1) Restoring Fiscal Responsibility, 1/5/07, Passed 280-152 (D 232-0; R 48-152) 100 HOURS LEGISLATION· Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations, 1/9/07, Passed 299-128 (D 231-0; R 68-128) · Increasing the Minimum Wage, 1/10/07, Passed 315-116 (D 233-0; R 82-116) · Expanding Stem Cell Research, 1/11/07, Passed 253-174 (D 216-16; R 37-158) · Requiring Negotiation for Lower Prescription Drug Costs, 1/12/07, Passed 255-170 (D 231-0; R 24-170) · Cutting Interest Rates on Student Loans, 1/17/07, Passed 356-71 (D 232-0; R 124-71) · Ending Subsidies for Big Oil and Investing in Renewable Energy, 1/18/07, Passed 264-163 (D 228-4; R 36-159) "This is just the beginning of the work we are going to do on behalf of the American people, but a very important step in the right direction,” concluded Congressman Lynch. "Now we must turn to the issue of Iraq, and work together to bring our troops home as safely and as soon as possible.” -30-
01.10.2007	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), member of the House Subcommittee on National Security and International Relations who has traveled to Iraq five times since the war began in 2003, said, "I continue to be deeply disappointed by President Bush’s refusal to reevaluate his Administration’s strategy in Iraq and his inability to recognize the burden that he is placing on American service men and women and their families. When the President talks about sending "additional” troops to Iraq, he’s not talking about new troops. Instead, troops already in the region will have their deployments extended and men and women who have completed multiple tours of duty in Iraq will be asked to leave their families and return far sooner than they expected. As someone who has been on the ground in Iraq a number of times, I assure you that sending more troops is not the answer. Sending 20,000 more Americans to Iraq will not discourage insurgents, and it will not encourage the Iraqi government to take more responsibility for their nation. Instead, we should be devising a strategy that will reduce the number of our troops in Iraq, and devise a clear plan to bring them home. It is time for President Bush to do the right thing by our men and women in uniform, and work together with the Congress to bring them home as safely and as soon as possible.” -30-
01.10.2007	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Walpole has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $171,245, will be used to fund Rapid Intervention Training (RIT) and also to fund the replacement of 21 outdated Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) and an outdated compressor. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Tim Bailey, advocated on behalf of Walpole's application with the Department of Homeland Security representative, Tracy Henke. This is the second Fire Grant that Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have helped to secure for the Walpole Fire Department. In 2004, Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch assisted in obtaining $159,906 in federal funding for the Town of Walpole to fund modifications needed to bring a second fire station into full-time operation and create a firefighter training room. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and to fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2006 awards will represent a $485 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Senator Kennedy said, "This grant provides needed and well-deserved federal assistance to the courageous Fire Fighters in Walpole who do so much to protect their community. We owe our first responders all the support they need, and I commend the Department of Homeland Security for providing these funds." "Our first responders are the heroes of our communities, and I’m thrilled that the Walpole Fire Department is getting the funding it needs to be able enhance its response capabilities,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend these brave men and women for their service to our community.” Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Tim Bailey and the entire Walpole Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Walpole. Working together with Senator Jim Timilty, Representatives Bob Coughlin, Richard Ross, John Rogers and Lou Kafka and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” More than 20,000 fire departments applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Walpole was one of only three fire departments in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Walpole's commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training has demonstrated that the town is an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it's been the leadership of Chief Bailey at the Fire Department that has made Walpole so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
11.30.2006	BOSTON, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />MA- Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Senator John F. Kerry, and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Medfield Fire Department has received a federal grant of $114,000 under the Department of Homeland Security’s FIRE Grant Program. The Department will use the funds to purchase new self-contained breathing equipment. Senator Kennedy said, "The courageous firefighters of Medfield do all they can to protect and serve the people of their community. I commend them for their skill and dedication, and I commend the Department of Homeland Security for providing this needed support.” "Our first responders are the heroes of our communities. I’m thrilled that the Medfield Fire Department will get the help it needs to be able to enhance its response capabilities,” said Senator Kerry. "The men and women who make up our nation’s first responders should have nothing but the very best, most state-of-the-art equipment to keep them safe – and to keep our community safe.” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, who advocated on behalf of Medfield's application with the Department of Homeland Security, said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief William Kingsbury and the entire Medfield Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Medfield. By working together with Senators Kennedy and Kerry, State Senator Jim Timilty, State Reps. Lida Harkins and Richard Ross and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base." Fire Chief William Kingsbury said, "It’s a big help to us. If we did not get these funds, we would have to prolong the purchase of new equipment for two or three years. Our whole community will benefit from these funds.” -30-
11.17.2006	WASHINGTON, DC -- Citizens for Rail Safety, Inc. (CRS) presented a National Rail Safety Symposium on Nov. 15 at The National Press Club in Washington, DC. The program featured a panel discussion on the safety of our railways with industry experts, political leaders and transportation scholars. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), member of the Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, author of the Rail Worker Emergency Training Act, and a keynote speaker for the morning along with Congressman Bennie Thompson (D-MS) stressed the need for training during a time of heightened security: "Five years after September 11th, and following terrorist attacks against railways in Madrid, London and Mumbai, the United States has still not taken meaningful steps to educate the riding public in rail security awareness. We have not adopted adequate measures to secure and monitor our rail stations and train platforms; and we have not trained our rail workers adequately in terrorism evacuation and HazMat response. Given the known pattern of terrorist activity, it is simply inexcusable. There are cost-effective steps we can take right now to heighten security and preparedness on our railways, and I am grateful to the Citizens for Rail Safety and the Teamsters Rail Security Conference for pushing to implement those proposals," said Congressman Lynch. "Every day our railways transport more than one million tons of hazardous materials, passing by American schools, homes and communities,” said Patricia Abbate, executive director of CRS. "This Symposium brought together leaders in the field to discuss the problems, but more importantly to discuss potential solutions.” As part of the Symposium, professors of The National Labor College released the findings of a CRS commissioned study on the need for Hazmat training. "With approximately two million rail shipments of hazardous materials and hundreds of toxic releases each year, there is a compelling need to ensure that rail workers, emergency responders, and community residents are well-trained and well-educated," said Dr. Ruth Ruttenberg of the National Labor College. "This study addresses the current status of rail hazardous materials training and what is needed to adequately prepare for both prevention and response.” CRS, a national non-profit public interest organization comprised of transportation consultants and concerned citizens advocating for national railroad safety and efficiency, is a member-supported organization. Membership is open to all citizens who feel that safe rail transportation is no longer a goal for the railroad industry, but is an obligation. Since its inception in 2005, CRS has commissioned two white papers, with another two underway. To learn more about CRS visit www.citizensforrailsafety.org. -30-
11.16.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Norwood has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $192,598, will be used to update vehicle voice communications systems, implement GPS technology and install a computer-aided dispatch system. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Michael Howard, advocated on behalf of Norwood's application with the Department of Homeland Security representative, Tracy Henke. This is the third Fire Grant that Congressman Lynch has helped to secure for the Norwood Fire Department. In 2002, Norwood was awarded $93,831 to fund firefighter training and equipment. In 2004, Norwood received $188,181 to fund the purchase of rapid intervention packs and improved turnout gear. The most recent grant, at $192,598, is the largest so far. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2006 awards will represent a $485 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Michael Howard and the entire Norwood Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Norwood. By working together with Rep. John Rogers, Helen Abdallah Donohue and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Norwood was one of only three fire department in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Norwood's commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training has demonstrated that the town is an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it's been the leadership of Chief Howard at the Fire Department that has made Norwood so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
11.15.2006	Between November 28th and 30th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will hold a series of open forums on the prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D). The purpose of the five forums is to address many of the questions and concerns of seniors and others who are Medicare-eligible regarding the Open Enrollment Period for Medicare Part D. Open Enrollment for Medicare Part D begins on November 15th and runs for six weeks until December 31st. Anyone who would like to change plans or needs to sign up for the first time must do so during that period. All residents from the Ninth Congressional District who are eligible for Medicare are welcome to attend any of the events. At each forum, Congressman Lynch and representatives from Social Security, Medicare, and senior advocacy groups will make brief presentations on the Open Enrollment Period. Afterwards, there will be an opportunity for seniors to ask questions about how to determine whether they should examine switching plans, and how to select the prescription drug plan that's best suited to their individual needs. Congressman Lynch previously held 16 forums on Medicare Part D in November and December 2005 when initial enrollment for the new program began. He is now working in the Congress to amend the program to make it more affordable for seniors. Here is the complete list of forums: FOR RESIDENTS OF WEST ROXBURY, HYDE PARK, JAMAICA PLAIN, ROSLINDALE, SOUTH BOSTON, DORCHESTER AND DEDHAM Tuesday, November 28, 2006 1:00 PM Knights of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Columbus Washington Street, West Roxbury FOR RESIDENTS OF NEEDHAM, WESTWOOD, NORWOOD, MEDFIELD AND WALPOLE Wednesday, November 29, 2006 10:00 AM Islington Center 288 Washington Street, Westwood FOR RESIDENTS OF BROCKTON, WHITMAN, HANSON, BRIDGEWATER, EAST BRIDGEWATER AND WEST BRIDGEWATER Wednesday, November 29, 2006 1:00 PM War Memorial Building 156 West Elm Street, Brockton FOR RESIDENTS OF STOUGHTON, CANTON, AVON AND EASTON Thursday, November 30, 2006 10:00 AM Striar Jewish Community Center 445 Central Street, Stoughton FOR RESIDENTS OF BRAINTREE, MILTON, RANDOLPH AND HOLBROOK Thursday, November 30, 2006 1:00 PM Braintree Town Hall 1 JFK Memorial Drive, Braintree -30-
11.15.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, today introduced the "Iraq Weapons Accountability Act of 2006,” legislation that requires the Department of Defense to track weapons purchased for the Iraqi Security Forces (ISF). Lynch’s legislation comes on the heels of a key report on weapons tracking by the DoD issued by the Special Inspector General for Iraq, Stuart Bowen, Jr. In October 2006, Inspector Bowen, who has played a critical role in uncovering mismanagement, waste, fraud and abuse in contracting in Iraq, discovered that DoD has tracked less than 3% of the more than 370,000 weapons it purchased for the Iraq Security Forces with reconstruction funds. Bowen recommended that the Defense Department immediately move to track all weapons purchased. Lynch’s bill would require the Secretary of Defense, through the Multi-National Security Transition Command-Iraq (MNSTC-I), to implement Inspector Bowen’s recommendations. Congressman Lynch said, "There is no excuse for why the Department of Defense would allow hundreds of thousands of weapons to go missing in Iraq. This lack of accountability has put American service men and women in danger, and the federal government should move immediately to ensure that every weapon is accounted for in the future.” According to Inspector General Bowen’s audit report, "Iraqi Security Forces: Weapons Provided by the U.S. Department of Defense Using the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction,” the Department of Defense has purchased more than 370,000 small arms, including semi-automatic pistols, heavy machine guns, and rocket-propelled grenade launchers, for the ISF using $133 million in reconstruction funds. However, only about 10,000 (2.7%) of these weapons have been registered with the Defense Department’s Small Arms Serialization Program, which the Department uses to track small arms. In addition, the Bowen report reveals that the ISF cannot even properly maintain the weapons it has been given due to a lack of spare parts and the absence of necessary repair manuals. For these reasons, Inspector General Bowen recommended that the MNSTC-I, a Defense Department-led command responsible for equipping, training, and recruiting the ISF, take several key steps to ensure that we properly track the small arms provided to the ISF. Notably, Bowen advised that MNSTC-I establish accurate weapons inventories and register these weapons, by serial number, with the Defense Department. "Inspector General Bowen’s findings indicate that the safety of American troops in Iraq, as well as our goal of properly equipping and training the ISF, may be compromised by DoD’s failure to track these weapons and ensure their sustainability,” said Congressman Lynch. "This legislation would not make certain that Mr. Bowen’s recommendations are fully implemented but would also promote greater accountability and transparency in our Iraq reconstruction efforts – for which we’ve spent over $30 billion in U.S. taxpayer money and more importantly, for which over 2,800 of our brave servicemen and women have made the ultimate sacrifice.” Congressman Lynch plans to return to Iraq later this month and focus on this issue. -30-
11.08.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, said, "I think that Secretary Rumsfeld’s decision to resign was the right one. We now have this opportunity to change our strategy and tactics on the ground in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq. It would have been impossible to change direction with Mr. Rumsfeld in place. "Hopefully, former Secretary Baker, Lee Hamilton and the Iraq Study Group’s awaited recommendations will reflect the reality of our situation in Iraq and again, hopefully, the President will listen. "Based on my five visits to Iraq, we need to require the elected government in Iraq to take more responsibilities in order to facilitate a deliberate and orderly reduction of our troop presence in Iraq. "I’ll be returning to Iraq shortly, and that’s what I’ll be looking for.” Congressman Lynch is the author of the Iraq Transition Act (H.R. 5716), legislation that would establish a national bipartisan commission whose specific purpose would be to facilitate an orderly, deliberate, and expeditious transfer of government operations in Iraq from U.S. military control to Iraqi civilian control. -30-
11.03.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today blasted the move by Congressional Republicans to secretly terminate the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, Stuart Bowen, Jr. The termination clause was inserted into the final version of the FY 2007 Defense Authorization Bill, behind closed doors, by the Republican staff of the House Armed Services Committee prior to the bill’s consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. According to the one-sentence provision [Section 1054], which can be found on page 318 of the 984-page bill, "[t]he Office of the Inspector General shall terminate on October 1, 2007 with transition operations authorized to continue through December 31, 2007.” Members only had a couple of hours to read the final bill before it was passed by the House on September 29th, by the Senate on September 30th, and was signed into law by the President on October 17, 2006. In response to the revelation, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "This is a blatant and disgraceful political maneuver by the White House and Congressional Republicans designed to disguise the corruption, waste, fraud, and abuse of $30 billion U.S. taxpayer dollars – as well as over $20 billion in Iraqi money – that has been spent on Iraq Reconstruction. Congress should immediately reinstate Mr. Bowen’s office when it returns on November 13th.” Congressman Lynch, a member of the Committee on Government Reform, said, "Under the leadership of Henry Waxman and Tom Davis, our Committee has spent three years trying to determine where the billions of dollars that have disappeared during Iraq Reconstruction have gone. I’ve also been to Iraq five times in order to verify whether billions of dollars in contract expenditures were indeed legitimate.” "Mr. Bowen and his auditing and inspection teams play a critical role in examining this Administration’s gross mismanagement of Iraqi reconstruction no-bid contracts and funds – which has amounted to a looting of the U.S. Treasury. The numbers we’re talking about are absolutely staggering. This is also a lost opportunity to help the Iraqi people and it has frustrated our overall policy in Iraq – an effort for which over 2,800 of our brave service men and women have made the ultimate sacrifice,” said Congressman Lynch. "They are the only auditors and inspectors we have that actually operate out of Iraq – with everyone else working out of Arlington, Virginia,” added Congressman Lynch, referring to the October 2005 testimony of the Department of Defense’s Acting Inspector General, Thomas Gimble, before Lynch’s Government Reform Committee. Gimble told the panel that the Department does not have auditors on the ground in Iraq. The Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction was created in October 2004 and plays an instrumental role in assessing the progress and management of Iraq reconstruction efforts, including examining growing evidence of waste, fraud, and abuse. Most recently, an October 28, 2006 audit report issued by Mr. Bowen revealed that the Department of Defense has lost track of over 300,000 weapons purchased for the Iraqi Security Forces with $133 million of reconstruction funds. Congressman Lynch said, "Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel appointed to investigate President Clinton, spent 5 years conducting the Whitewater inquiry. That was a real estate deal that occurred in 1978 involving a $203,000 investment. What we are talking about here in the context of Iraq Reconstruction is breathtaking in its size and scope. We’re talking about the largest cash shipments in the history of the Federal Reserve Bank. Billions of dollars just disappeared when they got to Iraq. And now because the biggest contractor on the ground was Halliburton, Vice President Cheney’s former company, the White House wants to take a pass on the investigation. Shame on them. To terminate Mr. Bowen, who is responsible for the immense task of tracking down billions of dollars in missing reconstruction funds, flies in the face of common sense and undermines any attempt to show the Iraqis the advantages of a democratic government and political system based on the rule of law.” Congressman Lynch plans to return to Iraq later this month and focus on this issue. -30-
10.12.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice awarded federal funding to the following police departments in the Ninth Congressional District for the purchase of new bulletproof vests: TOWN AWARD # VESTS Avon $7,425 18 vests Boston $49,116 604 vests Braintree $1,600 4 vests Bridgewater $900 2 vests Brockton $41,625 111 vests Canton $4,400 11 vests Dedham $3,674.25 9 vests E. Bridgewater $1,050 3 vests Holbrook $1,812.50 5 vests Needham $5,625 15 vests W. Bridgewater $8,137.50 21 vests Westwood $6,237 27 vests Whitman $9,800 28 vests In total, 13 cities and towns in Congressman Lynch’s District received funding through the Fiscal Year 2006 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program. Congressman Lynch said, "According to the National Association of Police Organizations, almost 3,000 law enforcement officers have survived shootings thanks to bulletproof vests. We know that body armor saves lives, period. The problem that many towns and cities face, in our districts and across the nation, is that of cost. I have the benefit of working with our talented Police and Fire Chiefs, as well as local officials, to provide the tools that our Police and Fire Departments need to do their job safely and effectively. Thanks to this federal funding, these Police Departments will be able to afford state-of-the-art, life-saving equipment for their police officers.” Earlier this year, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a separate measure offered by Congressman Lynch to increase funding for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) by $12 million. Lynch’s amendment was approved by an overwhelming bipartisan majority, and if the bill is signed into law by President Bush, the additional funding will become available in Fiscal Year 2007. Lynch’s amendment was supported by the National Association of Police Organizations, which represents 238,000 rank-and-file police officers from across the United States, and the Fraternal Order of Police, which represents 324,000 members. Thomas Nee, President of both the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association and the National Association of Police Organizations, said, "I want to thank Congressman Lynch for his continued leadership and for his unwavering support of America’s law enforcement community. Congressman Lynch’s amendment will provide the resources police officers need to defend themselves against the deadly assaults that have become far too commonplace in America.” William Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations, said, "On behalf of rank-and-file law enforcement officers from across the United States, NAPO thanks Congressman Lynch for his effective leadership on this vital issue. Because of Stephen Lynch's commitment to America's police, our brother and sister officers are safer today.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP), created by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998 is a unique U.S. Department of Justice initiative designed to provide a critical resource to state and local law enforcement. Since 1999, over 11,900 jurisdictions have participated in the BVP Program, with $173 million in federal funds committed to support the purchase of an estimated 450,000 vests. The Office of Justice Programs' Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) administers the BVP Program. -30-
10.12.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following a session of Congress that saw continued reliance on the failed energy policies of the past while ignoring common sense solutions to America's energy challenges, the League of Conservation Voters (LCV) today released its 2006 National Environmental Scorecard. Congressman Lynch received a perfect score of 100 percent. The national average was 48 percent for House members and 45 percent for Senators. LCV has published the Scorecard for each Congress since 1970 to inform the public and hold members of Congress accountable for their votes on the environment. "LCV commends Representative Lynch for his perfect voting record to protect the environment and the health and safety of Massachusetts families,” LCV President Gene Karpinski said. "We applaud the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation for their efforts to protect America's coasts from the unnecessary threat of offshore drilling.” Mr. Karpinski added, "The American people want our leaders in Washington to implement real solutions to our energy challenges, such as investing in renewable energy like wind and solar power, but most of this year's energy debate in Congress focused on backwards looking policies like offshore drilling. It's time for Congress to harness America's ingenuity and technological know-how to promote clean energy that protects the environment and reinvigorates the economy.” The National Environmental Scorecard - based on a scale of 0 to 100 - was scored on the number of pro-environment votes cast out of the total number of votes included. Absences are counted as a negative vote. Among the votes included in the 2006 Scorecard are those on offshore drilling, drilling royalties, public health and environmental funding. To view the entire 2006 National Environmental Scorecard, visit www.lcv.org. -30- The nonprofit League of Conservation Voters (LCV) is the independent political voice for the environment. To secure the environmental future of our planet, LCV's mission is to advocate for sound environmental policies and to elect pro-environmental candidates who will adopt and implement such policies. For more information, please visit us on the web at www.lcv.org.
10.10.2006	Markey and Lynch Call on Chertoff to Re-evaluate Wrongheaded Ratings and Make It Possible for Boston to Apply for Higher Levels of Federal Port Security Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, joined by Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff to express serious concern about the low security risk designation that DHS assigned the Port of Boston. Boston was placed near the bottom of the risk rankings, despite handling almost 16 million tons of cargo each year and massive deliveries of volatile and dangerous liquid natural gas which passes through the port on its way to the Everett liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility. Rep. Markey said, "The Port of Boston is a busy port near the only LNG facility located in a densely populated urban area, making it a very attractive terrorist target. Let’s not forget that Boston was the launching point for two of the four planes on September 11th, and one of the terrorists planning to attack the Los Angeles airport entered our country on an LNG tanker in Everett. It defies common sense that the Bush Administration and Secretary Chertoff would rank our port at the lowest risk level, making it more difficult for Massachusetts to receive the federal port security funds that it urgently needs to provide the required security safeguards.” Rep. Lynch, member of the Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, said, "Classifying the Port of Boston as a low security risk flies in the face of common sense and runs contrary to our experience here. This is a major commercial port where over 15 million tons of cargo gets transported within miles of densely settled residential communities. We also have LNG tankers that travel through the Port regularly and which constitute a high risk terrorist target. Republicans are playing pork barrel politics with homeland security. There is no other way to explain why Old MacDonald's Petting Zoo in Huntsville, Alabama, was classified as "critical infrastructure" by DHS, while the Port of Boston is under-funded. We call on Secretary Chertoff to immediately correct this serious lapse in judgment.” Below is the text of Reps. Markey and Lynch’s letter to Sec. Chertoff: October 10, 2006 The Honorable Michael Chertoff Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: We are writing to express our strong opposition to the decision by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to relegate the Port of Boston to the lowest security risk tier as part of the Department’s process for evaluating port security grant applications and determining which grant applications should receive funding in the latest round of the Fiscal Year 2006 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP). As you know, in the latest PSGP round, DHS provided the Boston port area with $147,750 in funding, which represents less than 5 percent of the total amount of funding requested in a total of 10 Massachusetts applications. We urge the Department to immediately reopen its evaluation of the security risks at the Port of Boston to more accurately place the port in a higher risk category that reflects the port’s unique security challenges and enables applications from the Boston port area to be eligible for additional funding available for ports in higher risk tiers. According to DHS, 78 ports, including the Port of Boston, were designated as lowest risk (Tier 4) and eligible for a potential share of $25 million in grant funding, while 4 ports were designated as highest risk (Tier 1) and eligible for a potential share of $50 million. Clearly, placement in the lowest risk category compels Massachusetts’ applications to compete against more applications for fewer dollars than placement in the highest risk category requires. DHS has provided the following explanation of the method it used to calculate risk: "The risk scores for each port, and their subsequent Tier assignments, were determined through an analysis of threats, vulnerabilities and consequences. This included an assessment by the intelligence community about the intent and capability of known terrorist groups to target specific port areas, as well as consideration of specific factors such as the distance of the port from open water, the port’s volume of activity, the potential for casualties from an attack, and the economic and strategic impacts of an attack on the port. This analysis placed the Port of Boston in Tier 4 (the lower of the tier groupings).” Given the Department’s criteria for assessing risk, it is incomprehensible that the Port of Boston has been determined to belong in the lowest risk tier. Would-be millennium bomber Abdelghani Meskini smuggled himself into the U.S. via a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) tanker that docked in Everett, Massachusetts near Boston. After the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, Bush Administration counterterrorism chief Richard Clarke ordered the closure of Boston Harbor to protect against potential follow-on attacks In 2004, the federal government ordered LNG deliveries to Everett halted during the Democratic National Convention in Boston due to security concerns. The Port of Boston is a bustling port that handles more than 1.3 million tons of general cargo, 1.5 million tons of non-fuels bulk cargo and 12.8 million tons of bulk fuel cargos annually, including gasoline and oil, which also could pose a security risk. Shipments to the LNG facility in Everett must travel through Boston Harbor and in very close proximity to downtown Boston and densely populated communities like Everett and neighboring cities and towns. This particular configuration is unlike any other LNG terminal in the United States and warrants the special attention of the Department. Moreover, the LNG facility provides about 20 percent of all of the natural gas consumed in New England annually, and during period of peak demand, the Everett terminal accounts for about 35 percent of all natural gas consumed in New England. The economic damage and human casualties resulting from a successful attack on the LNG terminal would be significant. By the Department’s own risk formula, it appears that the port of Boston should have been assigned to a higher risk category consistent with its unique security challenges, including its proximity to the LNG terminal in Everett, the only LNG terminal located in an urban area, and the port’s past history as a port utilized by terrorists seeking to attack our country. Accordingly, we request that the Department provide all documentation and analysis used to place the Port of Boston in the lowest risk category as part of the PSGP process and urge the Department to immediately re-evaluate the calculations used to justify the risk score assigned to the Port of Boston. If any of these materials are classified, please provide them in a separate classified annex and contact our staff to make arrangements for the appropriate review of the documents. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Edward Markey Stephen Lynch -30-
10.06.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-09) today called on House Republicans to fully fund the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act, legislation that governs education reform and funding. Since it was signed into law in 2001, the No Child Left Behind Act has been under-funded each and every year, by a total of $56.8 billion. The cuts have been deepest for after-school programs, teacher training, educational technology, and Title I assistance for disadvantaged children. This year is no different. Education funding in the proposed Republicans’ FY 2007 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill again falls short of the levels set forth by No Child Left Behind. "Education is the great equalizer, and it is vital to the future success of our children,” said Congressman Lynch. "We are doing a serious disservice to <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />America’s children by not living up to the promises made in the No Child Left Behind Act.” If the Republican education funding bill becomes law, students in Massachusetts will indeed be left far behind. For example, 31,419 children in Massachusetts will be denied the after-school programs promised by NCLB. Massachusetts will receive $15.5 million less than we were promised in educational technology grants and $8.5 million less for teacher training. Intensive reading and math instruction will be denied to 55,738 disadvantaged Massachusetts students. "The cities and towns of Massachusetts, and across this country, are struggling to provide the services they need to without raising taxes on residents,” said Congressman Lynch. "They cannot and should not be expected to shoulder the burden of yet another unfunded mandate by the federal government. If Republicans are serious about education reform, they need to get serious about education funding.” -30-
09.25.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has begun to accept applications for nomination to the United States Service Academies. Each year, Congressman Lynch can nominate one or two exemplary high school students for admission to each of the Service Academies, including: · <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States Military Academy at West Point · United States Naval Academy · United States Air Force Academy · United States Merchant Marine Academy Congressman Lynch encourages any student from the Ninth Congressional District who is interested in attending one of the Service Academies to contact Bob Fowkes in the Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000 by Wednesday, November 1. -30-
09.25.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, D.C. – Congressman Stephen F. Lynch and 199 House Democrats sent the following letter to President Bush today urging him to provide the necessary funding for veterans’ health care in his FY2008 budget. Below is the text of the letter: September 25, 2006 Honorable George W. Bush The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As your administration continues to formulate its FY 2008 budget submission, we write to request that you provide the necessary funding for the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) health care system and related benefits programs. Unfortunately, we believe it is necessary to express our serious concern in this matter due to your administration’s record of under-funding the VA by at least $9 billion over the last 6 years. We are particularly concerned about veterans funding next year and in the future as your budget submission this year reduced veterans’ funding by $10 billion over the next 5 years. Providing for our military veterans and their families is a continuing cost of war and should be an important component of our national defense policy. Indeed, President George Washington recognized this point, saying, "[t]he willingness with which our young people are likely to serve in any war, no matter how justified, shall be directly proportional to how they perceive the Veterans of earlier wars were treated and appreciated by their nation.” Mr. President, the time is right for your administration to change course and fully fund the VA, cease efforts to shift the costs of health care onto the backs of veterans, and finally recognize and implement the concept of ‘shared sacrifice’ with respect to the federal budget. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan along with the aging of our World War II, Korea and Vietnam War veterans have increased demand for VA services. However, year after year you request inadequate funding for veterans’ health care. Each year your budget submission includes proposals to increase veterans’ co-payments and fees, essentially taxing certain veterans for their health care. Each year your VA budget fails to request what is needed and relies on accounting gimmicks such as "management efficiencies” and inaccurate health care projections. Such efforts are transparent as the true consequences of your administration’s budget flaws are being realized by current and future veterans. Indeed, recently VA officials themselves acknowledged that greater funding was needed to care for our servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from mental health disorders and traumatic brain injuries. Mr. President, during your tenure, health care waiting lines have increased, appointments and medical procedures delayed, more than 250,000 veterans have been turned away from entering the VA health care system, and disability and education claims backlogs have grown to unreasonable rates. Moreover, Congress has been forced to add billions of dollars in supplemental VA funding due to embarrassing funding shortfalls. What we request of you and your administration is simple – provide funding in your FY 2008 budget submission to ensure that our servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and the heroes from our previous conflicts receive the care and benefits they have earned and deserve. Without question, Mr. President, the federal budget is a reflection of national policies and ultimately a reflection of our moral priorities. Please join us in working to provide the necessary resources in the fiscal year 2008 budget to fully fund the VA and to take care of our veterans and their families. Sincerely, Nancy Pelosi House Democratic Leader Lane Evans Ranking Member Veterans Affairs Committee Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress 197 House Democrats -30-
08.29.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch and <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Massachusetts veterans leaders teamed up Thursday night to step up the fight against the proposed consolidation of VA Hospitals in Greater Boston. Veterans from across the Ninth Congressional District attended the strategy session at the VA Hospital in West Roxbury, which was hosted by Congressman Lynch. Lynch called for the meeting to update veterans groups about the status of the VA’s Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) process, and discuss the impact that closing any of the 4 VA Hospitals in Greater Boston (Bedford, Brockton, West Roxbury and Jamaica Plain) would have on veterans in New England. Ralph Cooper, Executive Director of the Roxbury-based Veterans Benefits Clearinghouse, was disappointed that the VA has not been responsive to the concerns of local veterans throughout the CARES Process. Cooper said, "I want to hear the VA say, ‘We want to make the CARES process work for all veterans from all neighborhoods.’ I’m just not hearing that.” The CARES Process began in 2004 as a study of how to modernize VA facilities throughout the country. In February 2004, the CARES Commission made its recommendations, which included studying the possibility of closing all four of Boston’s VA Hospitals and consolidating them into one large hospital. Congressman Lynch and the Massachusetts Delegation led the two-year fight against that proposal, and in July, the VA announced that it had officially rejected the idea. Unfortunately, as part of the announcement, the VA stated that it would now examine moving inpatient services from Bedford to Brockton and consolidating West Roxbury and Jamaica Plain into one facility. Congressman Lynch said, "Well, I am pleased that the Veterans Administration recognized that closing the four VA hospitals in Greater Boston was a bad idea, although I am still concerned that they took such a long time and considerable expense to reach that conclusion. While the VA continues to consider consolidating the West Roxbury and Jamaica Plain facilities and moving critical services from Bedford to Brockton, I believe that would hurt our veterans, and I will work to ensure that that does not happen.” Veterans agents at the meeting Thursday outlined the impact that either move would have on their veterans. Bob Gale, Veterans Agent for the City of Brockton, said that historically, disability claims don’t start to pour in until 5-10 years after veterans come home, so the idea of closing facilities now "just doesn’t make sense.” And Ted Mulvehill, Veterans Agent for Norwood, said, "The VA claims that the reason for closing these facilities is because they expect the number of veterans using VA hospitals to decline in the future. If that’s actually the case – something I find very difficult to believe – then the VA should be re-opening its doors to every veteran it cut out of the system in the last few years.” "Today we have some veterans waiting six to eight months to see a doctor, others being turned away at the door, and physical therapists in Brockton with dozens more patients than they can possibly be expected to serve,” said Congressman Lynch. Bob Arsenault, Veterans Agent for Hanson, echoed that sentiment, saying, "We can’t service the veterans we have today. How can they possibly be thinking about cutting back on services?” Congressman Lynch noted that there are several possible uses for any excess space in VA Hospitals that aren’t being considered. Namely, he said, the space could be used either to create a new amputee center to help the large number of wounded veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, or to create assisted living or nursing home style housing, something which is sorely lacking for our older veterans. Mike Pazyra, Veterans Agent for the Town of Stoughton, agreed, saying that "Housing is a huge issue for veterans in Stoughton—that should without question be part of the discussion moving forward.” The meeting was also attended by Tom Materazzo (Former Commissioner of Veterans Services in Boston), Jim Campbell (Randolph Veterans Agent), David MacGillvray (on behalf of his brother, Natick Veterans Agent John MacGillvray), Ray Richards and Richard Langevin (Disabled American Veterans), representatives of Congressmen Ed Markey, Marty Meehan and Mike Capuano, and Wayne Szretter (VA Boston Healthcare System). Lynch told the veterans that he would relay their concerns to the VA directly and that he had requested a meeting with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson and the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation in Washington in September. Congressman Lynch also encouraged all Massachusetts veterans to voice their concerns to the VA during the comment period scheduled for the month of September. Congressman Lynch said, "Hopefully, we can now focus on some other issues like paying our VA doctors, nurses, therapists and staff a salary that is commensurate with their skill and service, modernizing our existing VA facilities and improving the transportation system for veterans, so that they continue to get the high quality of care that they deserve. I will continue to work with the Congressional Delegation, the VA and our state veterans agents and advocacy groups to improve the VA health care system in our region.” -30-
07.06.2006	On Wednesday June 28th, the House of Representatives voted to approve an amendment offered by Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) to increase funding for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) by $12 million. Lynch’s amendment to the FY2007 Science-State-Justice-Commerce Appropriations Bill (H.R. 5672) was approved by an overwhelming bipartisan majority today. The measure was co-authored by Republican Vito J. Fossella from <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />New York. Congressman Lynch said, "According to the National Association of Police Organizations, almost 3,000 law enforcement officers have survived shootings thanks to bulletproof vests. We know that body armor saves lives, period. The problem that many towns and cities face, in our districts and across the nation, is that of cost. With budgetary constraints at the state and local levels, many communities are simply unable to purchase this life-saving equipment on their own. With this program we give communities the opportunity to buy bulletproof vests for their law enforcement officers and thereby provide much-needed protection for those in this dangerous profession.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP), created by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998 is a unique U.S. Department of Justice initiative designed to provide a critical resource to state and local law enforcement. Since 1999, over 11,900 jurisdictions have participated in the BVP Program, with $173 million in federal funds committed to support the purchase of an estimated 450,000 vests. The Office of Justice Programs' Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) administers the BVP Program. Lynch’s amendment was supported by the National Association of Police Organizations, which represents 238,000 rank-and-file police officers from across the United States, and the Fraternal Order of Police, which represents 324,000 members. Thomas Nee, President of both the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association and the National Association of Police Organizations, said, "I want to thank Congressman Lynch for his continued leadership and for his unwavering support of America’s law enforcement community. Congressman Lynch’s amendment will provide the resources police officers need to defend themselves against the deadly assaults which have become far too commonplace in America.” William Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations, said, "On behalf of rank-and-file law enforcement officers from across the United States, NAPO thanks Congressman Lynch for his effective leadership on this vital issue. Because of Stephen Lynch's commitment to America's police, our brother and sister officers are safer today.” The full text of Congressman Lynch’s statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of his amendment follows: Each day, our state and local law enforcement personnel -- over 800,000 brave men and women nationwide -- put their lives on the line in order to ensure that we as Americans are safe and protected. I believe that we in this chamber owe it to them to ensure that they have access to the best equipment available. That’s why Congress created the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program in 1999. Since the program’s inception, over 11,500 jurisdictions have participated, purchasing over 450,000 vests nationwide. Almost every Congressional district across this nation has benefited from the Vest Partnership Program. In Massachusetts alone, over 34,000 vests have been purchased through this program. Unfortunately, it is estimated that over 200,000 vests may need to be replaced due to tests showing that Zylon-based vests fail to provide the intended level of ballistic resistance. According to the National Association of Police Organizations, almost 3,000 law enforcement officers have survived shootings thanks to bulletproof vests. We know that body armor saves lives, period. The problem that many towns and cities face, in my district and across the nation, is that of cost. With budgetary constraints at the state and local levels, many communities are simply unable to purchase this life-saving equipment on their own. With this program we give communities the opportunity to buy bulletproof vests for their law enforcement officers and thereby provide some protection for those in this dangerous profession. I do believe that our state and local law enforcement professionals should be fully equipped and that’s why I ask that my colleagues in the House support this amendment. -30-
06.30.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today introduced the "Iraq Transition Act,” (H.R. 5716) which would establish a national Commission to gradually shift control of government operations in Iraq from the U.S. military to the newly-elected Iraqi Government. Lynch's bill is intended to institute a step-by-step process to empower the Iraqi Government and reduce reliance on American and coalition military forces, allowing troops to return to the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "Despite the excellence with which our troops have performed, the process of getting the Iraqi government to take on more responsibility remains stalled. That is what we need to focus on. From my own observations during five visits with our troops in Iraq and meetings with the Iraqi Council of Representatives and President Talabani, this has emerged as the central weakness of the Administration's current strategy. The shift to Iraqi control is a political process and we should not expect our military to shoulder this responsibility along with war-fighting and reconstruction." Lynch argues that, "There needs to be an authorized commission, whose central and exclusive job is to make this transition to Iraqi control happen and to measure and report on its progress to the Congress and to the American people." In essence, Lynch's bill would establish a single national commission which would be responsible for shifting government operations to the new Iraqi government. Such a body does not currently exist. The national commission established by Lynch's legislation is modeled in part on the Filipino Rehabilitation Commission Act of 1944, which was established to assist the Philippines' transition to local civilian government after the U.S. Military had taken control of the islands from the Japanese during World War II. "As in the past, our ability to reduce troop levels is directly related to our success in replacing U.S. Military control with local civilian control. That is the critical path right now. History has proven that this model can work," said Lynch. Under Lynch's plan, the bipartisan Commission on Iraqi Transition would be comprised of 21 members. The President would appoint 7 of the members, and 7 members each would come from the Senate and the U.S. House. The primary goals of the Commission would be: to facilitate a dialogue between Commission members and Iraqi and international leaders; to develop and report findings, recommendations and conclusions for transition to Iraqi control; and to provide guidance and support for the shift to Iraqi governance. To read what the local media are saying about the bill, visit https://ledger.southofboston.com/articles/2006/07/14/opinion/opin01.txt and https://www.southbostononline.com/articles/editorials/2006/07-13-06GoodPieceofLegislation.cfm. -30-
06.21.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $100,000 in federal funding for the expansion of the non-profit community organization Year Up's Boston headquarters on Summer Street. The funding is included in the Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. Year Up is a one-year technology training and professional development program that prepares high school graduates and GED recipients for well-paying careers and higher education. Year Up trainees gain six months of hands-on technical and professional training and are also placed in a six-month IT-focused apprenticeship with major corporations in the business community. "Year Up provides training and opportunity for hundreds of young men and women every year," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "Graduates of Year Up are better prepared to succeed in the modern day workplace and they're better prepared to help propel the Boston business community forward.” "We are incredibly grateful to Congressman Lynch and the U.S. House of Representatives for their commitment to our program,” said Gerald Chertavian, Founder and CEO of Year Up. "This funding will enable us to reach further into the communities we serve and provide more opportunities for urban young adults to earn family sustaining wages and pursue higher education. Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with the leadership of Year Up, including Board Member Craig Underwood, and a senior representative from State Street Corporation (one of Year Up’s strongest corporate partners), Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the expansion of their headquarters. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House today, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. Lynch added, "I am pleased that the House of Representatives has recognized the impact that Year Up has on its talented graduates and on their employers. This investment of federal dollars will enable founder Gerald Chertavian and his staff to build on their success and train hundreds more skilled workers for our technology-driven economy." -30-
06.20.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $750,000 in federal funding for the construction of a new off-ramp from I-95 North onto <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Dedham Street in Westwood. The funding is included in the Transportation Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. "Construction of a new off-ramp is intended to relieve growing congestion at the Neponset Street and Route 128 exits, and is designed to accommodate future economic development in Westwood,” said Congressman Lynch. Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with the Westwood Board of Selectmen, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for roadway improvements in Westwood. "I give great credit to Chairman Pat Ahearn and Selectmen Antonellis and Nancy Hyde for bringing the concerns of Westwood to Washington. This is how the system is supposed to work,” added Lynch. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House today, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. The I-95 North off-ramp will complement the existing on-ramp to I-95 South on Dedham Street. Together, the ramps will offer significant traffic relief for Westwood, Canton and the entire region. "The new ramp could also provide a boost to the Westwood Station Smart Growth project and give commuters, residents and employees direct access to the area,” added Lynch. "I’m impressed that the Town of Westwood has made taken the lead in promoting local economic development, and, while having a very positive impact on the tax base, this new development will add some traffic in the area. I am hopeful that this federal funding will enable the town's roadways to be upgraded and improved in order to accommodate future growth." Lynch added, "I am pleased that the House recognized the need for improved access to Westwood's Commuter Rail Station and business district, and I'll continue to work with State Representative Bob Coughlin, Town Administrator Michael Jaillet and Chairman Patrick Ahearn, Anthony Antonellis and Nancy Hyde on similar ways to be helpful in the future.” -30-
06.20.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $175,000 in federal funding for the renovation and expansion of the Holbrook Public Library. The funding is included in the Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. "This is good news for the Town of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Holbrook,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "The Public Library has always been a point of pride for the families of Holbrook, and this funding will allow us to move forward with plans for updating this historic building.” Holbrook Board of Selectmen Chairman Rob Austin said, "Our library initiative has expanded from a grass-roots effort to a national commitment. The town of Holbrook is grateful for this assistance and we would like to thank the Congressman for all his effort in supporting our public library.” Town Administrator Michael Yunits said, "Holbrook is very appreciative of the Congressman’s efforts. Holbrook, being a small town with limited resources, really appreciates the help when we can make improvements to a facility that will help everybody in town, young and old.” Earlier this year, after consulting with Senator Mike Morrissey, Representative Ron Mariano, Town Administrator Mike Yunits, and the Holbrook Board of Selectmen Chairman Bob Austin, Rick McGaughey, Paul Currie, Katherine Connolly and Don White, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the renovation and expansion of the library. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House Wednesday, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. The Holbrook Public Library was constructed in 1967, and extensive renovations are required to bring the building up to today’s standards. These improvements will include making the library more accessible to elderly and handicapped residents of Holbrook. Lynch added, "What makes a public library special is that it’s accessible to everyone, no matter your age, economic standing, or special condition. This federal funding will enable Chairman Austin, and Selectmen McGaughey, Currie, Connolly and White and Town Administrator Mike Yunits and the Town to ensure that every resident of Holbrook is able to take advantage of this wonderful resource.” -30-
06.20.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $75,000 in federal funding for the construction of a new artificial playing surface and running track at Oliver Ames High School in Easton. The funding is included in the Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. "In our meetings with Chairman Colleen Corona and John Haederle, Irwin Cohen, Charles King and Colleen Less, we were made aware that Easton has a severe shortage of fields for its athletic teams,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "That problem has been exacerbated by the ongoing renovations at Oliver Ames High School and East Junior High School. In response, we reviewed the federal budget for a legislative vehicle that could provide some assistance, and we went to work advocating that Easton was especially deserving of some federal assistance. It worked. While this funding is a good start, we realize that we have to do more. Still, this federal funding will get us started.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with Selectmen Corona, Haederle, Cohen, King and Less, as well as Town Administrator Martha White, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the new playing field and track. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House today, and will now be sent to the Senate for its approval. Lynch added, "Our goal here is to provide the students and families of Easton with a state-of-the-art athletic field that everyone can be proud of. I am pleased that the House of Representatives recognized the need in Easton and heard the concerns of the Selectmen and School and Recreation Committees, and dozens of sports groups in this worthy effort. This is how the system is supposed to work.” -30-
06.12.2006	On Thursday June 8th, the House of Representatives voted to approve an amendment offered by Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) to increase funding for landmine removal programs. Lynch’s amendment to the FY2007 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill (H.R. 5522) would allocate an additional $5 million to the State Department’s Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related (NADR) Programs account. The measure also takes the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States an important step toward fully meeting our commitment to humanitarian landmine removal programs worldwide. The amendment was supported by a broad majority in the House, as well as the 500 U.S.-based organizations that make up the U.S. Campaign to Ban Landmines. Congressman Lynch said, "Nearly twenty thousand people are killed every year by landmines and improvised explosive devices (IEDs), and about a third of those victims are children. That is in addition to the more than 135 American soldiers who were killed or injured by landmines in the Global War on Terrorism. Removing landmines and so-called IEDs is a critical first step for the reconstruction of war-torn countries. Plain and simple, removing landmines saves lives, and it’s our responsibility to help other nations do it safely.” In 2004, the Bush Administration announced a new U.S. policy towards landmines, pledging to increase funds available to support the State Department’s NADR programs by an additional 50% increase over FY03 baseline levels. In order to meet this policy goal, about $70 million per year needs to be allocated towards landmine removal programs. Lynch’s amendment will raise the United States’ commitment to $65 million. Congressman Lynch said, "Today, there are 80 million landmines in over 80 countries around the world. Every day that we fail to act, millions more lives are put at risk. President Bush has shown his commitment on this important issue and we in Congress must deliver on that promise. I encourage Members of the Senate to support this important measure and fulfill our commitment to help eradicate landmines and IEDs worldwide.” -30-
06.06.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that James P. Leonard of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Highland Street in Avon won first place in the Ninth Congressional District in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. The annual national art competition, called "An Artistic Discovery,” is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington for one the year. This year, dozens of entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and the judges, a group of leading local artists, had a difficult job in selecting the 2006 winner. In the end, they selected an acrylic painting entitled "Self-Portrait with Vision” by James Leonard, a junior at Avon Middle/High School. Congressman Lynch said, "Jimmy Leonard is a truly gifted young artist, and he is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Christine and Robert Leonard. In addition, his work reflects the superb instruction of his art teacher at Avon Middle/High School, Virginia Mahoney. I hope that his success will encourage other students from Avon and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” Congressman Lynch noted that the competition had been very tough this year, and there were a large number of outstanding submissions. As a result of the high quality of the artwork, Lynch has arranged for all of the students' entries to be displayed at their respective town halls this summer. Congressman Lynch said, "It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers.” -30-
05.30.2006	On Thursday May 25th, in a rare show of bipartisanship, the House of Representatives moved to strengthen rail security by passing a major amendment offered by Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ), and Rep. Michael Castle (R-DE) to increase state and local rail security funding. "This amendment will provide an additional $50 million to protect citizens who travel by subway, Amtrak and commuter rail,” said Lynch, who presented the amendment to the House on Thursday. While several amendments throughout the debate were defeated along party lines, the Lynch-Holt-Castle Amendment was a notable exception, passing with the support of 183 Democrats and 41 Republican votes. During floor debate, Lynch warned that anti-terrorism funds had been narrowly focused on aviation security while rail security had been forgotten. "It has been said that Congress is always fighting the last war,” said Lynch. "Since 9/11, we have spent almost 97% of transportation security funds on aviation alone. Meanwhile, we have spent only 3% to protect the commuter rail and subways. This is despite the fact that rail transportation handles five times as many passengers as our aviation system.” Lynch added that rail transit systems around the world had become the favorite targets of terrorist attacks. "We know that our rail and transit systems are the new targets of terrorists-we simply need to ensure that we are better prepared.” Lynch noted that in 1995, both the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Tokyo and Paris subways had been the targets of coordinated terrorist attacks and that in 2004, similar attacks on the Moscow subway were followed by coordinated bombings against commuter trains in Madrid. And most recently, terrorists claiming Al-Qaeda ties attacked the London transit system in July of 2005. Despite this pattern of terrorists targeting major transit systems across the globe, "the Bush Administration has actually sought to shortchange these critical and widely-used transportation systems. We have to close this gap in security,” said Lynch. -30-
05.23.2006	To view Congressman Lynch's mailer on protecting yourself against identity theft, visit: https://www.house.gov/lynch/IDtheft.pdf. -30-
05.23.2006	VA's Notification Letter to Veterans<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Dear Veteran: The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has recently learned that an employee took home electronic data from the VA, which he was not authorized to do and was in violation of established policies. The employee’s home was burglarized and this data was stolen. The data contained identifying information including names, social security numbers, and dates of birth for up to 26.5 million veterans and some spouses, as well as some disability ratings. As a result of this incident, information identifiable with you was potentially exposed to others. It is important to note that the affected data did not include any of VA’s electronic health records or any financial information. Appropriate law enforcement agencies, including the FBI and the VA Inspector General’s office, have launched full-scale investigations into this matter. Authorities believe it is unlikely the perpetrators targeted the items because of any knowledge of the data contents. It is possible that they remain unaware of the information which they possess or of how to make use of it. Out of an abundance of caution, however, VA is taking all possible steps to protect and inform our veterans. While you do not need to take any action unless you are aware of suspicious activity regarding your personal information, there are many steps you may take to protect against possible identity theft and we wanted you to be aware of these. Specific information is included in the attached question and answer sheet. For additional information, the VA has teamed up the Federal Trade Commission and has a website (www.firstgov.gov) with information on this matter or you may call 1-800-FED INFO (1-800-333-4636). The call center will operate from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. (EDT), Monday-Saturday, as long as it is needed. We apologize for any inconvenience or concern this situation may cause, but we at the VA believe it is important for you to be fully informed of any potential risk resulting from this incident. Again, we want to reassure you we have no evidence that your protected data has been misused. We will keep you apprised of any further developments. The men and women of the VA take our obligation to honor and serve <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />America’s veterans very seriously and we are committed to seeing this never happens again. Sincerely, R. James Nicholson Secretary of Veterans Affairs Frequently Asked Questions 1. I’m a veteran, how can I tell if my information was compromised? At this point there is no evidence that any missing data has been used illegally. However, the Department of Veterans Affairs is asking all veterans to be extra vigilant and to carefully monitor bank statements, credit card statements and any statements relating to recent financial transactions. If you notice unusual or suspicious activity, you should report it immediately to the financial institution involved and contact the Federal Trade Commission for further guidance. 2. What is the earliest date at which suspicious activity might have occurred due to this data breach? The information was stolen from an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs during the month of May, 2006. If the data has been misused or otherwise used to commit fraud or identity theft crimes, it is likely that veterans may notice suspicious activity during the month of May. 3. I haven’t noticed any suspicious activity in my financial statements, but what can I do to protect myself and prevent being victimized by credit card fraud or identity theft? The Department of Veterans Affairs strongly recommends that veterans closely monitor their financial statements and visit the Department of Veterans Affairs special website on this, www.firstgov.gov or call 1-800-FED-INFO (1-800-333-4636). 4. Should I reach out to my financial institutions or will the Department of Veterans Affairs do this for me? The Department of Veterans Affairs does not believe that it is necessary to contact financial institutions or cancel credit cards and bank accounts, unless you detect suspicious activity. 5. Where should I report suspicious or unusual activity? The Federal Trade Commission recommends the following four steps if you detect suspicious activity: Step 1 – Contact the fraud department of one of the three major credit bureaus: Equifax: 1-800-525-6285; www.equifax.com; P.O. Box 740241, Atlanta, GA 30374-0241 Experian: 1-888-EXPERIAN (397-3742); www.experian.com; P.O. Box 9532, Allen, Texas 750132 TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289; www.transunion.com; Fraud Victim Assistance Division, P.O. Box 6790, Fullerton, CA 92834-6790 Step 2 – Close any accounts that have been tampered with or opened fraudulently Step 3 – File a police report with your local police or the police in the community where the identity theft took place. Step 4 – File a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission by using the FTC’s Identity Theft Hotline by telephone: 1-877-438-4338, online at www.consumer.gov/idtheft, or by mail at Identity Theft Clearinghouse, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington DC 20580. 6. I know the Department of Veterans Affairs maintains my health records electronically; was this information also compromised? No electronic medical records were compromised. The data lost is primarily limited to an individual’s name, date of birth, social security number, in some cases their spouse’s information, as well as some disability ratings. However, this information could still be of potential use to identity thieves and we recommend that all veterans be extra vigilant in monitoring for signs of potential identity theft or misuse of this information. 7. What is the Department of Veterans Affairs doing to insure that this does not happen again? The Department of Veterans Affairs is working with the President’s Identity Theft Task Force, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission to investigate this data breach and to develop safeguards against similar incidents. The Department of Veterans Affairs has directed all VA employees complete the "VA Cyber Security Awareness Training Course” and complete the separate "General Employee Privacy Awareness Course” by June 30, 2006. In addition, the Department of Veterans Affairs will immediately be conducting an inventory and review of all current positions requiring access to sensitive VA data and require all employees requiring access to sensitive VA data to undergo an updated National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) and/or a Minimum Background Investigation (MBI) depending on the level of access required by the responsibilities associated with their position. Appropriate law enforcement agencies, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs, have launched full-scale investigations into this matter. 8. Where can I get further, up-to-date information? The Department of Veterans Affairs has set up a special website and a toll-free telephone number for veterans which features up-to-date news and information. Please visit www.firstgov.gov or call 1-800-FED-INFO (333-4636).
05.23.2006	On May 16, 2006, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch made the following statement at the Government Reform Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats, and International Relations and Subcommittee on Energy and Resources Joint Hearing entitled: "Energy as a Weapon: Implications for U.S. Policy:” Thank you, Mr. Chairman.I want to thank Chairman Shays and yourself, Chairman Issa, for holding this hearing. I can think of very few issues that are so prominent, so profound and so immediate in the world today.I'd also like to thank both our secretaries and the collective witnesses in the second panel for helping our committee with its work.Throughout the past year, we've witnessed a dramatic thirty-eight percent increase in the price of crude oil and concurrently a sharp rise in the average cost of gasoline to American families. In recent weeks, crude oil prices have risen to over $70 a barrel. And according to the Energy Information Administration, this week's average national price for regular-grade gasoline is nearly $3 per gallon, a nearly eighty percent increase from a year ago. On the East and West Coasts, the average price per gallon is actually over $3.Among the chief factors that have facilitated recent rises in oil prices have been increased worldwide consumption and demand, as countries such as China and India have experienced significant economic growth. However, it is the United States that remains the world's leading oil consumer, consuming over twenty million barrels of the roughly eighty million barrels produced worldwide each day, while producing only about seven million barrels daily.Notably, our high oil consumption, coupled with a weakened reserve position, means that the United States, for the most part, will continue to rely on the world markets for its crude oil supply. According to the Energy Information Administration's last international energy outlook, seventy percent of U.S. oil consumption is projected to be satisfied by crude oil and petroleum product imports by the year 2025.Regrettably, our growing dependence on foreign oil not only poses a substantial risk to our economic security, but may also serve to compromise the effectiveness of American foreign policy, as high domestic demand leaves the United States susceptible to the threat of hostile oil-related political actions by foreign governments in oil- producing countries.Iran, for example, the second-largest producer within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has repeatedly issued thinly-veiled supply disruption threats in response to U.S.-led efforts to curb that country's uranium enrichment program.In addition, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, whose country is the United States' fifth-largest source of crude imports, has similarly asserted the possibility of retaliatory oil-related actions stemming from his opposition to U.S. policy. In April of 2004, Hugo Chavez threatened to stop selling oil to the United States if we did not stop, quote, "intervening in Venezuela's domestic affairs." And in February of 2006, President Chavez again asserted that the U.S. government should know that, if it crosses the line, it will not get Venezuelan oil.As evidenced by these examples, America's addiction to foreign oil means that our economy and foreign policy are extremely vulnerable to oil-related threats issued by, in some cases, rogue oil-producing states.Accordingly, I welcome the witnesses today, both our secretaries in the first panel, and we also have a very distinguished panel to follow. And I am enormously happy that you've been willing to help the committee with its work. And I look forward to your testimony.Thank you, Mr. Chairman. -30-
05.23.2006	On May 4, 2006, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch made the following statement at the Government Reform Full Committee Hearing entitled "Sifting Through Katrina’s Legal Debris: Contracting in the Eye of the Storm:” Thank you, Mr. Chairman and ranking member.I also want to welcome and thank Mr. Taylor and Mr. Pickering for their participation.The central mission of this committee is to provide oversight of government contracting practices, whether it be Halliburton or KBR in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq, or major highway projects in my district where Bechtel was involved.Basically, what we try to do are two things: One is to ascertain the cost of the work being done, and second, to try to determine whether or not it's reasonable or not.So when we figured out the cost of providing temporary housing after Katrina, we sought to do our job on this.And in particular, I want to look at the Carnival Cruise Lines contract, which caught my eye. I must admit, I've never been on a cruise, but the numbers here are stunning, I think.I actually live in a pretty high-cost housing state. And I wanted to make sure that these numbers were right. According to what we have from DHS, the Carnival Cruise ship contract, which is now over, so we can take a good look at it, it cost -- the total picture -- it cost $236 million --$236 million.It ran for six months, and based on the occupancy figures that we got -- now when Ms. Watson and the chairman led us down to a CODEL right after the hurricane, and I know there were some problems with getting people into the cruise ships, and I don't know why, but there were, but based on the occupancy figures from DHS, it cost over $53,000 to house each individual on board the ship.That comes out to about $300 a night for an individual, and obviously $600 a night for two people.Now, the way that GSA looks at this is we try to do comps. That's shorthand for comparable properties or comparable accommodations. So what I did was I asked -- we all asked -- minority staff to come up with some comps on what $600 a night for a couple might get us and what $300 a night might get us for an individual so we know whether or not those are reasonable.Now, this is a fairly boilerplate process, but I have to admit even though I represent the 9th Congressional District in Massachusetts, which includes Boston, which is fairly high in terms of housing costs, I have to admit, I was extremely surprised when we got the results.Mr. Chairman, I don't know if we have the ability -- I know I have some photographs of the properties we came up with, but basically I'd like to put them up. Here's one property that we could have put people up at for $300 a night or $600 a couple. It's the Bellagio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, which is, you know, which is pretty nice. I've never been there either.But it looks nice, and, you know, it's rather stunning that when we think we're trying to do temporary housing for these folks, and this is what we're paying for. And you could stay at this hotel in a suite -- not just a room -- you could get a full suite for the money we paid to house these folks in the cruise line rooms.Secondly, I asked them to do a broad assessment. The next property that they came up with was -- actually, it looks a little bit like the chairman's house down in Virginia, but it's not. It's actually a castle, a 12th century Gothic castle. You could actually rent this for less money than we paid to put up these folks on the Carnival Cruise ships.If it wasn't the taxpayers paying for this, this would be humorous.And if it wasn't for the fact that the folks we were trying to help went without our help -- that's the other side of this. It's not just the shortfall on the taxpayers' side, but the fact that the goodwill of the American people was put forward, it just never reached the people we were trying to help, and they desperately needed our help.This castle actually has a premier golf course as well as an equestrian center for those who play polo. But it's just a good indicator of what we could have done.Or lastly, there's also another comp here. This is actually the Trump Towers. This is the Trump World Tower in New York City. This is where Bill Gates and I think Derek Jeter live. This would have been cheaper. It would have been cheaper to put our folks up at Trump Towers than it was to have FEMA house the hurricane survivors on these Carnival Cruise ships.Now, the exasperating part of this is that the Carnival Cruise line followed the rules. That's what bothers me. They followed the rules. They didn't commit fraud. They actually stayed within the guidelines and were able to get away with this within the rules, within the law, within the guidelines. And that's a disgrace. That's a disgrace.I want to ask Ms. Lee, what controls are in place to prevent the administration from awarding contracts like these, which are, frankly, absurd and shocking to the average sensibilities out there, not only of the members of Congress, but also of the American taxpayer. -30-
05.10.2006	A bipartisan group of New England lawmakers is asking Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to convene a summit of the coastal New England states and New York and New Jersey to develop a new regional approach for locating Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities. In addition to participation by the Department of Energy, they also requested the FERC, the Coast Guard, and representatives of other stakeholders be included. Secretary Bodman was in Massachusetts yesterday, speaking at M.I.T, and did not comment on the proposed Fall River LNG facility. Below is the full text of the bipartisan letter: May 9, 2006 The Honorable Samuel W. Bodman Secretary of Energy U.S. Department of Energy1000 Independence Ave., SWWashington, DC 20585 Dear Secretary Bodman: We want to thank you for taking the time to meet with members of the New England delegation last week about the need for a coordinated and rational liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal siting process to meet the region’s energy needs. Given that LNG facilities bring with them significant security, economic and environmental concerns, we believe it is imperative that the government – specifically the Department of Energy – act promptly to help establish a more comprehensive and regional approach to siting these facilities. As you know, several agencies share responsibility for federal approval of new LNG import terminals. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) grants federal approval for the siting of onshore LNG facilities. The FERC also authorizes the construction and operation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, the Coast Guard has primary responsibility for the siting and construction of offshore LNG facilities. The Environmental Protection Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies also play roles in the permitting processes for LNG facilities. This assortment of responsible agencies has lead to a disjointed and highly problematic process. Beyond the lack of coordination, during our meeting we highlighted several additional concerns: lack of state’s rights in the siting process; the ad hoc manner in which each proposed site is evaluated individually, as opposed to regionally; the need to include a more comprehensive regional and national supply and demand of LNG in the assessment of these proposals; and the need to bring the Department of Homeland Security into the process. As you heard, these are not problems specific to one state –they affect all of the New England states. For these reasons, we wrote to ask you to take the first step in solving this critical issue by convening an LNG summit of the coastal New England states and New York and New Jersey. In addition to participation by the Department of Energy, we also request the FERC, the Coast Guard, and representatives of other stakeholders (e.g. affected cities and towns, electric and gas utilities, consumer groups and commercial and industrial users) be included. We all recognize the need to construct additional LNG facilities in New England. At the same time, it has become very clear to us that a new strategy for siting these facilities is needed immediately. We believe this summit is the first step towards achieving that goal. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Senator Edward M. Kennedy Senator John F. KerryCongressman Barney Frank Congressman Edward J. MarkeyCongressman William D. Delahunt Congressman James P. McGovernCongressman Stephen F. Lynch Congressman Christopher ShaysCongressman Robert R. Simmons Congressman James Langevin -30-
05.03.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch made the following remarks on the floor of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, May 3, 2006 about three proposed trade agreements. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to address the House on the matter of the three proposed trade agreements that we are about to consider, namely, Colombia, Peru and the Sultanate of Oman trade agreements. Every Member of this body knows or should know the history of job loss in this country, and you would think, as my colleague from Texas said, that when you find yourself in a hole, you would stop digging, but not us. Here we go again. Just like the other so-called free trade agreements, the Colombia, Peru and Oman trade agreements contain no meaningful language or effective labor or environmental standards for workers in those countries. These so-called free trade agreements seek to reinforce the status quo in the host countries. Mr. Speaker, what we have here is identical language to the problematic and inadequate language that was contained in CAFTA and NAFTA before that. Instead of enforceable labor provisions with teeth, these free trade agreements suggest only that those Nations adopt and enforce their own labor laws. They offer no assurance that existing labor problems will be resolved, and they allow labor laws to be weakened or eliminated in the future, with no possibility of recourse. Now, some may wonder why the President and the administration chose these three countries for the next round of free trade agreements. It seems to me, after looking at the agreements, the Bush administration went out to the nations with the very worst examples of labor laws, protections and enforcement in the world, and some of the well-documented and more troubling aspects of these consist of the following. First of all, in Colombia, in 2004, over 200 trade unionists were killed, making it the most dangerous country in the world for workers seeking to exercise their freedom to form unions. More than 3,000 union members have been killed in Colombia since 1985, and only five people have been indicted in those cases. In Peru, the U.S. State Department has indicated that child labor remains a serious problem. This is our own U.S. State Department. They estimate that 2.3 million children between the ages of 6 and 17 are engaged in work in that country. Now, when we talk about free trade, that is not free trade. That is asking the American worker to compete with children who are being paid very low wages and being exploited in these other countries. In Oman, their 2003 labor laws remain in serious violation of the International Labor Organization's most important and fundamental rights: freedom of association and the right to organize and bargain collectively. There are no independent unions in that country. Mr. Speaker, while trade sanctions and serious remedies are granted to the commercial trade and investment provisions of these free trade agreements, the labor and environmental standards are totally ineffectual. It is interesting to me that the negotiators can get good protections for intellectual property rights and other commercial rights, but when it comes to labor and environmental standards, it is just not happening. I want to address the House especially within the context of the immigration problem that we are running up against in recent days. We have folks that are tunneling into our country from Mexico. They are swimming across rivers. They are hiding in containers from foreign countries and dying in the process of trying to get here, number one, to get out of the countries that they are in because they are in a troubled state and they know they have got no rights; secondly, to give their families hope in coming here. It seems to me, if we wanted to stop some of the immigration problems, we could include in our trade agreements provisions that protect those workers in their own countries. Then maybe they would not be lining up to come to this country with hopes of getting out of that situation. Secondly, we also talk a lot that we have got a major effort in Iraq, and the President of the United States has described it in many cases as an effort to export democracy. Well, I have got news for you; you do not export democracy through the Defense Department. This is where you export democracy, in our trade agreement, through our Commerce Department. Democracy is all about opportunity, and we should in our trade agreements give these foreign workers an opportunity to stay in their own country, to buy goods from us that would create a good dynamic by creating jobs in this country. Democracy is about opportunity, and if we are really serious about exporting democracy, it starts right here. It starts with our free trade agreements. This is just a terrible series of trade agreements. It offers no opportunities to these foreign workers. We are going to exacerbate the immigration problem because, as long as these people do not have a right to earn a decent living and have decent working conditions in their own country, they are still going to be coming here. So we can help on two fronts by adopting fair labor standards in our trade agreements, and I urge my colleagues to reject the Peru, Colombian and Oman trade agreements. -30-
05.02.2006	On April 27, 2006, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch gave the following statement on the floor of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. House of Representatives: Mr. Speaker, Today, around the country we see rising prices for American consumers at the pump and for heating costs at home. As the price of gas has doubled, profits for big oil and gas companies have tripled, while at the same time American family income has stagnated. Instead of additional handouts to Big Oil, we need to take steps to keep gas prices down. Simply put, we need to crack down on price gouging. Congressman Stupak’s anti-price gouging bill will not only address the issue of price gouging, but will also give federal agencies the authority to prosecute oil companies engaged in such practices involving gasoline, home heating oil, or natural gas. That’s why I urge the Republican leadership to do the right thing and bring this legislation to the floor. The American people can not afford to wait any longer for this Congress to act. Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time. -30-
05.02.2006	On April 26, 2006, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch gave the following statement on the floor of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. House of Representatives: Madam Speaker, we have to stop the partisan bickering here. The American people need our help. I am sure we are all aware of the effects and hardships that $3-a-gallon gas prices are having on average American citizens and their families. It amounts to a huge tax increase. And the saddest part of this fiasco is that much of this price increase is the result of mere speculation. It is, therefore, preventable. We, the Democrats, have an answer which will provide immediate relief to American families. It is H.R. 3936 offered by the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Stupak). It would regulate and put an end to the process of price gouging. We have been trying to get this bill passed for some time. For once we need to forget about the rich oil companies and record profits and tax cuts for the oil companies. That needs to go away. We need to start remembering the American people who need our help. The Republican leadership needs to realize this economy is going in the toilet as a result of this administration's economic policies and millions of American families are suffering. We need to pass the Stupak anti-price gouging bill. -30-
04.27.2006	On April 27, 2006, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch made the following statement on the floor of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. House of Representatives: Mr. Speaker, the lobbying reform proposal drafted by the Republican leadership in the wake of the Jack Abramoff scandal and other recent instances of corruption by public officials is woefully lacking in many respects. Chief among them, however, is its failure to address the central weakness and the most corrosive aspect of the current lobbying rules. That has proven to be this revolving door aspect we have heard so much about today, which involves public sector congressional folks, employees, going over to work for special interest groups. In the most recent instance with the Abramoff scandal, we had staffers for the former Republican leader going over to work for Abramoff. However, the need to impose greater restrictions on the flow between key legislative and executive branch policymaking posts and business and lobbying firms was never more evident than during the days following the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug Act. That was an absolute disgrace. We came to find out that the former chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee had taken the top job at the pharmaceutical industry's most powerful trade group only a couple of months after he had played an instrumental role in the bill's development and promotion. We came to find out only days after passage of the Medicare act that the Administration's chief Congressional negotiator on the bill had landed a job at a top lobbying firm representing drug companies and health care providers with major stakes in the legislation. As has been pointed out, that legislation has a provision that says the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall not negotiate lower drug prices with the pharmaceutical companies. Then one of the chief drafters of the bill goes to work for the pharmaceutical companies. It weakens our credibility as an institution here. Not only were seniors robbed, but also I think that the insurance companies were allowed to greatly benefit as a result of this revolving door situation, and we must correct it. -30-
04.10.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of "An Artistic Discovery,” the 25th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, the students’ artwork will be displayed this summer at their local Town Hall. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is now open for submissions, and all entries must be received by May 19, 2006. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Kenya Beaman. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://www.house.gov/lynch/, for more information on the competition. "I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition. Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I was proud to have the artwork of last year’s winner, Alexander Daluz of Brockton, representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” -30-
03.27.2006	Washington, D.C.__U.S. Representative Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) has won the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) "2006 Community Health Defender Award” for his outstanding leadership in expanding health care access to millions of uninsured and medically underserved Americans. The award is given each year to Members of Congress who have worked to successfully increase the number of Community, Migrant, Public Housing and Homeless Health Centers around the country that provide quality health care to medically uninsured and underserved people. "Representative Lynch should be commended for his active support of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />America’s Community Health Centers,” said NACHC President and CEO Tom Van Coverden. "His leadership and hard work on Capitol Hill have immeasurably helped the 15 million people who rely on health centers for their health care and the millions more who need them.” The federally-funded Community Health Centers program was established more than 40 years ago to help low-income and medically underserved Americans gain access to quality health care. Today, health centers serve as the family doctor for 15 million low-income children and adults in over 3,600 communities across the country – including 423,596 people in the Bay State. The Community Health Defender Award is presented to select Members of Congress during NACHC’s annual Policy and Issues Conference in Washington, D.C., which is attended by thousands of local and national leaders, health care experts and policy-makers, doctors, nurses and patients. Established in 1971, NACHC is a non-profit organization whose mission is (1) to represent the interests of federally supported and other federally qualified health centers and (2) to serve as an information source concerning issues of health care for poor and medically underserved populations in the United States. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Ryan David McGovern of Stevens Drive in Holbrook for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Ryan, the son of Mary and Michael McGovern, is a senior at Cardinal Spellman High School and a member of the varsity track and cross country teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Ryan was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Spellman. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Ryan are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Ryan McGovern was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. Ryan stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mary and Michael McGovern. The McGovern family, the town of Holbrook, and the entire state should be proud of Ryan in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Brian Campbell of Wendell Park in Milton for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Brian, the son of Karen and Stephen Campbell, is a senior at Boston College High School and a member of the varsity football team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Brian was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston College High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Brian are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Brian Campbell was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. Brian stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Karen and Stephen Campbell. The Campbell family, the town of Milton, and the entire state should be proud of Brian in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated David Worsham of Katie Court in Bridgewater for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. David, the son of Mary and Norman Worsham, is a senior at Bridgewater-Raynham Regional High School and a member of the varsity track and cross country teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "David was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Bridgewater-Raynham Regional High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like David are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, David Worsham was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. David stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Mary and Norman Worsham, and his grandparents Howard and Thelma Worsham and Edgar and Shirley Elderkin. The Worsham family, the town of Bridgewater, and the entire state should be proud of David in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Sam Lada of Webster Street in Needham for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Sam, the son of Stacey Kennon and Charles Lada, is a senior at Needham High School and a member of the varsity track and football teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Sam was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Needham High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Sam are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Sam Lada was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Naval Academy. Sam stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Stacey Kennon and Charles Lada, and his grandparents Rita and Joe Lada. The Lada and Kennon families, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Sam in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Charles Carruthers of Walnut Avenue in Norwood for an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. Joe, the son of Lori Karey and Ernest Carruthers, Sr., is a senior at Norfolk County Agricultural High School and a member of the varsity soccer, basketball, and baseball teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Joe was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Norfolk Agricultural. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joe are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph Carruthers was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Merchant Marine Academy. Joe stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Lori Karey and Ernest Carruthers, and his grandparents Edward and Sylvia Carruthers and Sonja and Stanley Karey. The Carruthers and Karey families, the town of Norwood, and the entire state should be proud of Joe in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jessica Pires of Arthur Street in Brockton for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Jessica, the daughter of Claudino and Joana Pires, is a senior at Brockton High School and a JROTC battalion commander. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Jessica was highly recommended by her teachers and advisors at Brockton High School. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Jessica are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as her letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jessica Pires was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. Jessica stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Claudino and Joana Pires. The Pires family, the city of Brockton, and the entire state should be proud of Jessica in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Jeffrey Poreda of Willard Circle in Westwood for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Jeffrey, the son of Karen and Christopher Poreda, is a senior at Westwood High School and a member of the USFIRST robots team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Jeff was highly recommended by his teachers and advisors at Westwood High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Jeff are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Jeffrey Poreda was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Air Force Academy. Jeff stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Karen and Christopher Poreda, and his grandparents Catherine and Zygmunt Poreda and Elisabeth and Chester Patterson. The Poreda family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Jeff in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Mary Eileen Sullivan of Bogandale Road in West Roxbury for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Mary Eileen, the daughter of Jeremiah and Mary Hogan Sullivan, is a senior at Ursuline Academy and captain of the varsity swim team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Mary Eileen was highly recommended by her teachers and coaches at Ursuline Academy. She is a remarkable young woman, and we are fortunate that young people like Mary Eileen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as her letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Mary Eileen was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated her to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Naval Academy. Mary Eileen stood out as a young woman of keen intelligence and strong character. She is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Jeremiah and Mary Hogan Sullivan, and her grandparents Supt. and Mrs. Jeremiah Sullivan and the Honorable and Mrs. William Hogan, Jr. The Sullivan family, the town of West Roxbury, and the entire state should be proud of Mary Eileen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Joseph Patrick DeSantis of Hale Road in Walpole for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Joe, the son of Paul DeSantis and Debbie Steeves, is a plebe at the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Joe was highly recommended by his professors and coaches at the Merchant Marine Academy. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Joe are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Joseph DeSantis was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Naval Academy. Joe stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Paul DeSantis and Debbie Steeves. The DeSantis and Steeves families, the town of Walpole, and the entire state should be proud of Joe in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
03.09.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved an amendment by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) to the "Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2005” (H.R. 2829). Lynch's amendment would direct the Institute of Medicine at the National Academies of Science to conduct a study on the addiction rates of prescription drugs like OxyContin and other powerful painkillers. Congressman Lynch's amendment was approved by the House of Representatives by voice vote and with strong bipartisan support. The study would focus on iatrogenic addiction, addiction which occurs as the result of doctor-prescribed medical care. During a Field Hearing of the Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs in Boston, one of the primary concerns raised by the experts who testified was the lack of information on the addictiveness of drugs such as OxyContin. "For the first time, this study will give us a measurement of the addictive power of continuous and time-controlled painkillers like OxyContin,” said Congressman Lynch. In his speech on the floor of the House of Representatives, Lynch stated that the goal of his amendment was to help doctors and patients better understand the risks associated with these drugs and prescribe and use them more safely and effectively. "Ultimately,” Lynch added, "the findings of this study could help us prevent more individuals from becoming hopelessly addicted through no fault of their own.” According to the 2004 National Household Survey, 31.8 million Americans have used pain relievers for non-medical purposes at least once in their lifetime. The abuse of prescription painkillers has risen steadily over the past five years; whereas the rates of abuse of illicit drugs have been generally stable over the same period. Congressman Lynch said, "Because there are legitimate medicinal uses for opioid painkillers, it is increasingly difficult to balance the desires of those patients who justifiably need these drugs and the massive problem of illicit use and abuse. For this reason, it is necessary to have information on the addictiveness of drugs associated with iatrogenic addiction, including OxyContin.” Congressman Lynch is the top Democrat on the Government Reform Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, which held a September field hearing in Boston on the abuse of prescription painkillers like OxyContin. -30-
03.02.2006	WASHINGTON--U.S. Representatives Candice Miller (R-MI) and Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today introduced new bipartisan legislation called the "Regulation in Plain English Act of 2006" that would, for the first time, require federal agencies to write regulations in plain, understandable English. This would also be the first time that plain English will be defined in Federal law. Representative Miller is the Chairman and Representative Lynch is the Ranking Member of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs. Regulations written in plain English would save small business billions of dollars by eliminating the time spent on decoding ambiguous terms and complex sentences, while saving them fines resulting from an inability to understand, and therefore comply with, complicated guidelines. Mr. Joseph Kimble, a teacher of legal writing and drafting at the Thomas Cooley Law School in Michigan, which is the largest law school in the nation, said, "There is now compelling evidence that plain language saves money enormous amounts of money--and pleases readers. The cost of poor communication is the great hidden waste in government. Untold millions and billions." The bill seeks to make public information clear to all citizens filling out government-distributed memos, thus eliminating excessive phone calls from people who cannot decode forms, confusion about rights and benefits, and mistakes made in trying to follow procedures. "During my time as Secretary of State of Michigan, our department was responsible for submitting ballot language for statewide initiatives. The language was sometimes so confusing that no one could tell how to vote or what they were voting on--people were misled to think no meant yes and yes meant no, despite voting on things as important as constitutional amendments," Rep. Miller said. "I took care to ensure that the language I oversaw was very clear and in plain English. I believe every citizen has the right to know what is going on in the government." "Our ultimate goal is simple--to make government paperwork less complex and more efficient,” said Congressman Lynch. "The promise of democracy, the fullness of individual rights, and the ideal of equal protection under the law for all citizens can never be attained if the communications which seek to carry out the law are drafted in such a way that their meaning and object remain a mystery after being read. Many government forms are central to the basic rights of American citizens, and it is critical that they are easy to understand.” NOTE: The following is an example of how translating existing regulations into plain English language would work: Before using plain language, a Department of Commerce rule read: "After notification of NMFS, this final rule requires all CA/OR DGN vessel operators to have attended one Skipper Education Workshop after all workshops have been convened by NMFS in September 1997. CA/OR DGN vessel operators are required to attend Skipper Education Workshops at annual intervals thereafter, unless that requirement is waived by NMFS. NMFS will provide sufficient advance notice to vessel operators by mail prior to convening workshops." After applying plain English, the same rule would read: "After notification from NMFS, vessel operators must attend a skipper education workshop before beginning to fish each fishing season." -30-
02.23.2006	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, DC—A bipartisan group of New England lawmakers yesterday wrote to Department of Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman requesting a meeting to discuss developing a new regional approach to locating facilities for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) imports. Energy companies that would like to build onshore facilities currently apply for permission from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which reviews each application on a project-by-project basis. In the letter to Secretary Bodman, the elected officials state that "[t]he current permitting process evaluates these new LNG import facilities as they are proposed and treats each LNG facility in isolation, rather than in conjuncture with other proposed facilities. We believe that this ad hoc approach is unsuitable for New England and that a more comprehensive and regional approach is required.” Below is the full text of the bipartisan letter: February 23, 2006 The Honorable Samuel W. Bodman Secretary of EnergyU.S. Department of Energy1000 Independence Ave., SWWashington, DC 20585 Dear Secretary Bodman: We are writing to request that you meet with us to help arrive at a rational process for siting LNG facilities in our region. We strongly support the construction of additional LNG facilities in New England, but we believe that a new strategy needs to be implemented that will weigh important project factors and improve interagency coordination for LNG siting. As you know, several agencies share responsibility for federal approval of new LNG import terminals. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) grants federal approval for the siting of onshore LNG facilities. The FERC also authorizes the construction and operation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, the Coast Guard has primary responsibility for the siting and construction of offshore LNG facilities. The Environmental Protection Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies also play roles in the permitting processes for LNG facilities. This assortment of responsible agencies means that close coordination is critical, but unfortunately, this is not happening. In particular, it does not appear that FERC coordinates sufficiently with other permitting agencies, such as the U.S. Coast Guard. The current permitting process evaluates these new LNG import facilities as they are proposed and treats each LNG facility in isolation, rather than in conjuncture with other proposed facilities. We believe that this ad hoc approach is unsuitable for New England and that a more comprehensive and regional approach is required. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Senator Edward M. Kennedy Senator John F. KerryCongressman Barney Frank Congressman Edward J. MarkeyCongressman William D. Delahunt Congressman James P. McGovernCongressman Stephen F. Lynch Congressman Christopher ShaysCongressman Robert R. Simmons Congressman Patrick J. Kennedy Congressman James Langevin Congressman Tom Allen Congressman Michael H. Michaud <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Luongo of West Cedar Street in Boston for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Matthew, the son of Arthur Luongo and Debra Kornbluh, is a senior at Boston Latin School and a member of the varsity sailing team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Boston Latin. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew Luongo was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Naval Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Arthur Luongo and Debra Kornbluh, as well as his grandfather, Myron Kornbluh. The Luongo and Kornbluh families, the city of Boston, and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Stephen R. Griffiths, Jr. of Cedarcrest Road in Canton for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Stephen, the son of Jennifer Fellini and Stephen Griffiths, Sr., is a senior at Canton High School and a member of the varsity football and lacrosse teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Stephen was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Canton High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Stephen are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Stephen Griffiths was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. Stephen stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jennifer Fellini and Stephen Griffiths, Sr., as well as his grandparents, James and Rose Griffiths and Leopold and Joan CaraDonna. The Fellini and Griffiths families, the town of Canton, and the entire state should be proud of Stephen in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher Ng of Lisa Road in Randolph for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Chris, the son of Peter and Yoshie Ng, is a senior at Randolph High School and a member of the varsity gymnastics, tennis, and swim teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Chris was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Randolph High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Chris are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher Ng was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Air Force Academy. Chris stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Peter and Yoshie Ng, as well as his grandparents, Betty Ng and Yoshimi Kunimoto. The Ng family, the town of Randolph, and the entire state should be proud of Chris in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Christopher O’Brien of Howard Street in Braintree for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, the United States Military Academy at West Point, and the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Chris, the son of Lawrence and Lois Beck, is a sophomore at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth and a member of the university’s wrestling team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Chris was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Braintree High School and at UMass-Dartmouth. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Chris are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Christopher O’Brien was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the service academies. Chris stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Lawrence and Lois Beck, as well as his grandparents, Lawrence and Jane O’Brien and Carl and Grace Beck. The Beck and O’Brien families, the town of Braintree, and the entire state should be proud of Chris in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Matthew Malacaria of Pondview Avenue in Medfield for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Matthew, the son of Charles and Wendy Malacaria, is a senior at Xaverian Brothers High School and a member of the varsity cross country and track and field teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Matthew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Xaverian. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Matthew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Matthew Malacaria was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Naval Academy. Matthew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Charles and Wendy Malacaria. The Malacaria families, the town of Medfield, and the entire state should be proud of Matthew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Alexander Brand of Forest Street in Needham for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Alex, the son of Jacqueline Phillips and Peter Brand, is a senior at Needham High School and a nationally-ranked fencer. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Alex was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Needham High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Alex are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Alexander Brand was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Air Force Academy. Alex stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Jacqueline Phillips and Peter Brand, as well as his grandparents, Dr. and Mrs. Frederick Brand and Elaine Bell and Lavern Phillips. The Phillips and Brand families, the town of Needham, and the entire state should be proud of Alex in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.22.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Michael Ross Sharp of Indian Trail in Whitman for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Michael, the son of Michelle and Gerald Sharp, is a senior at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School and a member of the varsity wrestling and football teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Michael was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Michael are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as his letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Michael Sharp was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community service elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the Military Academy. Michael stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Michelle and Gerald Sharp. The Sharp family, the town of Whitman, and the entire state should be proud of Michael in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.15.2006	Representatives Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Linda Sanchez (D-CA) and Michael Michaud (D-ME) and seventeen other Members of Congress sent a letter to Georgetown University President John DeGioia today to urge the University to respect the rights of Georgetown employees. The text of the letter and list of co-signers follows: February 15, 2006<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> John J. DeGioia, President Office of the President 204 Healy Hall 37th & O Streets, NW <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, DC 20057 Dear President DeGioia: We are writing to respectfully direct your attention to an important workers’ rights issue at Georgetown University. It is our understanding that a solid majority of janitors working for a Georgetown contractor, P&R Enterprises, have signed cards seeking union representation but that the company reportedly has refused to recognize their union. If this information is accurate, we are concerned that the rights of workers to choose to be represented by a union might not be fully recognized by a contractor with your prestigious university. The right to organize, and collectively bargain, is an internationally recognized human right. It is same right by which we measure the democratic nature of other countries. Unfortunately, as you may know, this right has been under sustained attack in our own country. American workers’ rights are undermined daily. We are writing to respectfully request that you take the necessary steps to ensure that Georgetown University protects its contractor employees’ right to organize. The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) was designed to protect the right of American workers’ to form and join unions and collectively bargain. Thanks to weak enforcement mechanisms, this law has been weakened by employers bent on denying workers the freedom to unionize. The election process under the NLRA is open to manipulation, delay, and interference. These NLRA election procedures improperly pit employers against employees, generating unnecessary conflict in the workplace for what should be a simple choice made by and among the employees. In short, current law simply fails to protect the rights of millions of Americans to make decisions about workplace representation without intimidation or fear of reprisal. That is why there is a growing consensus to recognize the right of workers to choose a union through majority-verification processes other than the NLRA election, namely the card-check process. This process grants workers the right to collectively bargain when a majority of workers sign union cards. This same process is the centerpiece of the Employee Free Choice Act, which has the support of over 200 members of Congress from both parties. Current law allows the parties to voluntarily do the right thing and agree to this card-check process. As a result, throughout the country, many employers have chosen to step aside and let their employees choose whether or not to unionize without interference. Voluntary card-check procedures have worked to protect employees’ rights and minimize conflict in the workplace. These procedures ensure that the choice lies with the employees, as it should, rather than with the employer. We have been presented with evidence that the majority of janitors working for P&R Enterprises at Georgetown University want union representation. Unless evidence exists disputing the employees’ choice, we strongly believe that their choice should be respected. We urge you to ask P&R Enterprises – and all contractors at Georgetown University – to respect that choice and recognize the employees’ union through a card-check process. Such a process is fair, democratic, and used by other employers in this country, and it ensures that employees, not employers, decide who, if anyone, will represent them. Thank you very much for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, LINDA SÁNCHEZ MICHAEL H. MICHAUD STEPHEN F. LYNCH Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Co-signers: Representatives George Miller, Major Owens, Raúl M. Grijalva, John Conyers, Jose Serrano, Robert A. Brady, Donald Payne, Robert Wexler, Lane Evans, Jan Schakowsky, Dennis Kucinich, Hilda Solis, Sherrod Brown, Joe Baca, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Robert Andrews, and Stephanie Herseth. -30-
02.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated David Michael Ellis of Talbot Road in Braintree for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. David, the son of David and Patricia Ellis, is a senior at Braintree High School and captain of the varsity soccer and gymnastics teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "David was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Braintree. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like David are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as their letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, David Ellis was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. David stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, David and Patricia Ellis, as well as his grandparents, Chester and Florence Ellis and Jack and Barbara Holzman. The Ellis family, the town of Braintree, and the entire state should be proud of David in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Henry John Rodrigues III of Russ Street in Randolph for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Henry, the son of Henry J. Rodrigues II and Martha Timke, is a senior at Randolph High School and captain of the varsity soccer team. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Henry was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Randolph. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Henry are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as their letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Henry Rodrigues was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. Henry stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Henry Rodrigues II and Martha Timke, as well as his grandparents, Henry and Louise Rodrigues and Robert and Ruth Timke. The Rodrigues and Timke families, the town of Randolph, and the entire state should be proud of Henry in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew J. Laughna of Noannet Circle in Westwood for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis and the United States Military Academy at West Point. Andrew, the son of Rory and Martha Laughna, is a senior at Westwood High School and a member of the varsity ice hockey and lacrosse teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Westwood. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as their letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew Laughna was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Andrew stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Rory and Martha Laughna. The Laughna family, the town of Westwood, and the entire state should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.13.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Brendon Joseph Mills of Frontier Drive in Walpole for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Brendon, the son of Eileen and Walter Mills, Jr., is a senior at The Noble and Greenough School and president of the debate club. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Brendon was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches at Noble and Greenough. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Brendon are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as their letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Brendon Mills was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. Brendon stood out as a young man of keen intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Eileen and Walter Mills, Jr., as well as his grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Mills, Sr. and Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Tosney, Jr. The Mills family, the town of Walpole, and the entire state should be proud of Brendon in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.10.2006	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch recently announced that he has nominated Andrew Maxwell, of Brookline Street in Needham, for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Andrew, the son of Helen and Steve Maxwell, is a senior at St. Sebastian’s School and a member of the varsity hockey, soccer, and lacrosse teams. As part of his annual Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch nominates exemplary candidates to the armed services academies. "Since September 11, 2001, the quality of applicants has steadily improved every year, and this year the decision was especially tough. These candidates are the best of the best, and I am proud of their desire to serve our country.” "Andrew was highly recommended by his teachers and coaches in Needham. He is a remarkable young man, and we are fortunate that young people like Andrew are willing to serve our nation,” said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate’s record of academic, athletic, and service achievements, as well as their letters of recommendation. After an extensive review process and a personal interview, Andrew Maxwell was selected as someone whose scholastic record and community contributions elevated him to the top of a list of well-qualified candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "There were many impressive candidates this year from the Ninth Congressional District for the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Andrew stood out as a young man of high intelligence and strong character. He is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Helen and Steve Maxwell, as well as his grandparents, Robert Maxwell and Donald and Barbara Cusack. The Maxwell family, the town of Needham, and the entire state, should be proud of Andrew in this achievement.” Students interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies should contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in Congressman Lynch’s Boston office at 617-428-2000. -30-
02.10.2006	Recently, a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) including Florida Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Massachusetts Democrat Stephen F. Lynch, and Pennsylvania Republicans Todd Platts and Jim Gerlach visited the Middle East on an information-gathering trip. A C-SPAN videojournalist accompanied the CODEL as they traveled first to Kuwait for a day, then into Iraq for the next 2 days, meeting with U.S. and Iraqi military leaders in Fallujah, Baghdad, and Balad Airbase. The CODEL then traveled to Afghanistan for the final 2 days as they met with Afghani parliamentarians and government ministers, U.S. troops and aid workers, and local Afghani leaders in Jalalabad. This was Congressman Lynch’s fourth CODEL to the region since the beginning of the war. The program schedule for the three C-SPAN specials is as follows: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 9:00-11:30 PM Congressional Delegation’s Travels to Iraq from Jan. 21-22. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 7:30-8:15 AM Representatives Lynch and Ros-Lehtinen interviewed on "Washington Journal.” MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 8:00-10:00 PM Congressional Delegation’s Travels to Afghanistan from Jan. 23-24. -30-
01.31.2006	Tonight President Bush had the chance to chart a new direction for the country, to reestablish our top priorities and begin anew on the challenges we face. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> He offered strong proposals on expanding our development and use of alternative energy sources, which will be critical to our economic security in the future. And he continued his support for substance abuse treatment programs which are of utmost importance to the communities of the Ninth District and across the nation. But on many of the most important issues facing our country, the President refused to offer relief to the Americans who need it most. President Bush's address provided no hope for the 43 million American seniors who are trapped in an expensive and overly complicated prescription drug plan. The President also overlooked the 260,000 veterans who were turned away by VA hospitals last year and the 46 million Americans who do not have health insurance. Similarly, the President has again forgotten the tens of thousands of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Gulf Coast families still homeless five months after Hurricane Katrina. President Bush recognizes the problems, but he refuses to take meaningful steps to address them. As we’ve seen in years past, President Bush’s "solutions” rarely solve the problem, and often exacerbate it. When President Bush heard that our VA system was facing a $1.5 billion dollar budget shortfall, he responded by making hundreds of thousands of veterans ineligible to receive health care. When President Bush heard that our seniors were unable to afford their prescription drugs, he responded by spending $720 billion dollars on a plan that does little to lower drug costs, leaves major gaps in coverage, creates confusion and has forced several states to declare "public health emergencies.” When President Bush heard that we have a growing budget deficit, his response was to make his tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans permanent, costing us more than $2 trillion dollars over the next decade. When President Bush saw the amount of devastation in Louisiana and Mississippi, he immediately cut the wage rates for workers in those areas thereby encouraging contractors to bring in illegal workers at lower wage rates. When President Bush heard that health care costs are skyrocketing and 46 million Americans are uninsured, he responded tonight by offering tax credits to those who already have insurance, and health savings accounts only to those who can afford them. If the President is serious about controlling health care costs, his first step should be to empower the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate lower drug prices with the pharmaceutical companies for Medicare beneficiaries. If the President is committed to covering the uninsured, he should propose expanding Medicaid to include more of America’s vulnerable children and families. The solution may require heroic leadership that calls the nation to the tradition of shared sacrifice. This would ring hollow amidst the president's call for another tax cut for millionaires while the hopes of future generations are slowly drowned in Mr. Bush's debt. President Bush often says that we live in "historic times.” It’s about time we start thinking about how history will judge our generation. -30-
01.14.2006	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Easton has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $90,990, will be used to install a new vehicle exhaust extraction system in each of Easton’s three fire stations. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Thomas Stone and Rep. Dave Flynn, advocated on behalf of Easton's application with the Department of Homeland Security representative, Tracy Henke. This is the third Fire Grant that Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have helped to secure for the Easton Fire Department. In 2005, Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch assisted in obtaining $225,000 in federal funding to purchase a new Rescue/Pumper fire truck for the Town of Easton. Later in the same year, Easton received another Fire Grant in the amount of $10,710 to fund the purchase of new radio pagers. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2006 awards will represent a $485 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Senator Kennedy said, "The men and women of the Easton Fire Department serve their community with great dedication and courage, and they eminently deserve this needed support.” "Our first responders are the heroes of our communities, and I’m thrilled that our state is getting the funding it needs to be able enhance its response capabilities,” said Senator Kerry. "I commend the men and women of the Easton Fire Department for their brave service.” Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Thomas Stone and the entire Easton Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Easton. By working together with Representative David Flynn, Senator Bob Creedon, Representatives Christine Canavan and Geraldine Creedon, and the Board of Selectmen, we hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” Fire Chief Thomas Stone said "We will use these funds to install vehicle exhaust removal systems in our fire stations. We are very pleased because this funding will help to protect our firefighters.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Easton was one of only four fire department in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Lynch have been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Easton's commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training has demonstrated that the town is an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it's been the leadership of Chief Stone at the Fire Department that has made Easton so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
01.04.2006	BOSTON – Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, along with Congressmen Michael Capuano and Stephen Lynch today announced that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has notified Congress that within days it will approve the entry of Phase III of the Silver Line project in Boston into preliminary engineering, a key milestone in the overall federal review of the project that is required in order to make the project eligible for hundreds of millions of dollars in federal support. The project consists of a 1.1 mile tunnel under downtown <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Boston, connecting Roxbury to Logan International Airport. It also allows for the building of new platforms at two existing subway stations and surface bus contra-flow lanes between Charles and Washington Streets. The project will also improve mobility for the largely transit-dependent population in Chinatown. "This next step for the Silver Line is an important one,” said Senator Kerry. "It will enhance commuters’ abilities to travel from Boston’s neighborhoods to the downtown shopping area, provide quicker options for getting to Logan International Airport, and bring more foot traffic to our rapidly growing waterfront. I commend the FTA for providing funding to better our great city.” "This is a wonderful accomplishment for the MBTA, and a recognition of a great deal of hard work. It means in the years ahead we’ll be in a strong position to secure substantial federal funding, and help the state meet its considerable transit expansion needs,” Senator Kennedy said. "This notification from the FTA is an important step forward for the Silver Line, a project that will increase public transit options in many Boston neighborhoods," stated Congressman Mike Capuano. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "The announcement by the FTA is another positive step toward the completion of this critical transportation project. Upon its completion, Phase III will provide increased accessibility for residents along the Silver Line to the South Boston Waterfront, the Financial District and Logan Airport as well as connections to other MBTA stations. In addition, this project will ensure that the economy of the City of Boston and the Greater Boston area will continue to grow in the years ahead. I commend the FTA and the MBTA for their commitment to this important project." "I want to thank Senator Kennedy, Senator Kerry, Congressman Capuano, Congressman Olver, Congressman Lynch, and the entire Massachusetts delegation for their steadfast support of this project specifically, and their continued support of the MBTA and public transportation generally. This is great news getting this important project back on track," stated Daniel A. Grabauskas, General Manager of the MBTA. The Silver Line Phase III project is expected to cost $1.2 billion. If the Federal Transit Administration gives the project final approval, the federal government may provide approximately $700 million in funding for this project. -30-
11.28.2005	To view Congressman Lynch's mailer on Medicare Part D, visit https://www.house.gov/lynch/Lynch_Medicare_Postcard_Final.pdf. -30-
11.28.2005	During the week of November 28-December 2, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will hold a series of open forums on the new prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D). The purpose of the eight forums will be to try to address many of the questions and concerns of seniors and the Medicare-eligible disabled regarding the complex details of the new program. "I have to be honest, I opposed the way this program was put together, but I still feel I have an obligation to make it work as well as possible for our seniors and disabled and answer any questions that they might have about the various aspects of the program," said Lynch. All residents from the Ninth Congressional District who are eligible for Medicare are welcome to attend the events. At the forums, Congressman Lynch and representatives from Social Security and Medicare and senior advocacy groups will make brief presentations on the benefit. Afterwards, there will be an opportunity for seniors to ask questions about how to sign up and how to go about selecting the provider that’s best for them. Here is the complete list of forums: FOR RESIDENTS OF <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />NEEDHAM Monday, December 28, 2005 1:30 PM Needham Council on Aging 83 Pickering Street, Needham FOR RESIDENTS OF DEDHAM, HYDE PARK, JAMAICA PLAIN, WEST ROXBURY AND ROSLINDALE Tuesday, November 29, 2005 11:00 AM Dedham Senior Center 735 Washington Street, Dedham FOR RESIDENTS OF BROCKTON, AVON, EASTON, HANSON, WHITMAN, BRIDGEWATER, EAST BRIDGEWATER AND WEST BRIDGEWATER Tuesday, November 29, 2005 1:00 PM Caffrey Towers Brockton Community Room, Building A 755 Crescent Street, Brockton FOR RESIDENTS OF NORWOOD, WESTWOOD, WALPOLE AND MEDFIELD Wednesday, November 30, 2005 10:00 AM Norwood Senior Center 275 Prospect Street, Norwood FOR RESIDENTS OF SOUTH BOSTON Wednesday, November 30, 2005 1:00 PM John T. "Doc” and Mary Tynan Senior Center 136 H Street, South Boston FOR RESIDENTS OF MILTON AND CANTON Thursday, December 1, 2005 10:00 AM Milton Council on Aging 10 Walnut Street, Milton FOR RESIDENTS OF DORCHESTER Friday, December 2, 2005 10:30 AM Keystone Apartments 151 Hallet Street, Dorchester FOR RESIDENTS OF BRAINTREE, HOLBROOK, RANDOLPH AND STOUGHTON Friday, December 2, 2005 1:30 PM Braintree Council on Aging 71 Cleveland Avenue, Braintree -30-
11.28.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that $250,000 for the rehabilitation of Stetson Hall in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Randolph is included in the Transportation-Treasury-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006. The bill was passed by Congress and will be signed into law by President Bush later this week. Congressman Lynch worked with the leadership of the House Appropriations Committee to secure the funding, which will be delivered to Randolph as an economic development grant. This is the second installment of federal funding that Congressman Lynch has secured for Stetson Hall. In 2004, Lynch brought home $75,000 in federal funding for the renovation of the historic landmark. "This funding gives a significant boost to local efforts to preserve one of Randolph’s most beloved historical treasures,” said Congressman Lynch. "Modernizing Stetson Hall will beautify the downtown area and help to attract other businesses to Randolph.” Built in 1842, Stetson Hall was originally designed to serve as Randolph’s Town Hall. In the last century and a half, it has accommodated a schoolhouse, a theater, a dance hall and a gymnasium, and it continues to serve as a focal point of the community. But the Hall fell into disrepair over the years and is in desperate need of modernization. "I give great credit to Jane and Walter Hess and Henry Cooke who have led the local effort to restore Stetson Hall. In the last eight years, hundreds of local volunteers and dozens of local businesses from Randolph have come to Stetson Hall's rescue-fundraising, getting the support of the community, and completing the initial phase of the Hall’s rehabilitation,” said Congressman Lynch. "I hope that this federal funding will allow Randolph to build on the efforts and leadership of Walter and Jane Hess and so many others, and complete the restoration of Stetson Hall.” -30-
11.23.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the Town of Walpole will receive $400,000 in federal funding to expand and upgrade Walpole's playing fields. The funds are included in the final Transportation Appropriations bill, which has been approved by Congress for Fiscal Year 2006. Last spring, Walpole officials approached Congressman Lynch about the need for additional field space and for improvements to existing fields. Following their meeting, Lynch submitted the appropriation request to federal appropriators, and lobbied Democratic and Republican Congressional leaders to secure the funding. The $400,000 for Walpole is included in the Transportation Appropriations Act, which was signed into law by President Bush last week. The funding will enable Walpole to install a new synthetic playing surface on the high school field and to target other athletic field renovation projects in town. Congressman Lynch said, "This has been in the works for a while -- I apologize that it took so long. Sometimes the wheels of government are a little slow but perhaps we can plan over the winter and get some of this work done next spring.” "Walpole has a long and storied history of fielding championship teams. That success is due in no small part to parent involvement and the commitment of coaches to good sportsmanship, and the town’s support for youth programs and community pride from a very young age. In many ways, Walpole is a perfect reflection of what's best about America.” Lynch continued, "I know that Michael Boynton, Joe LaVita and Walpole's Recreation Committee have led this effort for the last five years. It's great to see that their hard work has gotten the recognition it deserves.” Walpole Town Administrator Michael Boynton said, "This amount of money will greatly help the Town of Walpole in addressing its continued need for enhanced and increased athletic field space in town. This appropriation is just another example of the incredible dedication and support Congressman Lynch gives to the communities in his district. We’re very thankful for his advocacy on this funding.” -30-
11.21.2005	The Boston Higashi School in Randolph received a visit from Congressman Stephen Lynch during the busy Thanksgiving week. The Congressman, who was spending time in his district while home for the holidays, made time to learn more about this innovative program for children with Autism located in Randolph, MA. Randolph is part of the 9th Congressional District represented by Congressman Lynch. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> The Boston Higashi School serves children and young adults aged 3-22, who are challenged by ASD, through an innovative combination of academics, communication, social development, athletics, art, music and technology known as Daily Life Therapy ®. This philosophy of education is based on the world- renowned tenets developed by the late Dr. Kiyo Kitahara of Tokyo, Japan. Among the principles which set this school apart from its peers is a clear policy against the use of medication or behavioral control. According to the school’s Executive Director, Rosemary Littlefield, "the goal of this approach is to enable our students to develop a love for learning, overcome challenges, and to gain confidence from their successes so that they may fully enjoy their community and all that life has to offer.” Congressman Lynch touted the school as "a model of innovation and an essential complement to the special education system available in Massachusetts and beyond.” He said further that "The Boston Higashi School not only expands the options for education but also offers hope for families challenged by this difficult disorder.” For more information about Daily Life Therapy ® or the Boston Higashi School, please visit their website at www.bostonhigashi.org or call 781-961-0800. For information on Autism Spectrum Disorder, visit the Autism Society of America at www.autism-society.org. -30-
11.18.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, introduced the "Iraq Contracting Fraud Review Act of 2005" (H.R. 4351), legislation that would ensure greater accountability and transparency in Iraq contracting. Specifically, Lynch's bill would require the Secretary of Defense to review all Defense Department Iraq reconstruction and troop support contracts involving any contractor, subcontractor, or U.S. official that has been indicted or convicted for related contract illegalities. The bill would also require the Secretary to report subsequent findings back to Congress within 180 days. Congressman Lynch's legislation stems from the Subcommittee's continuing investigation of documented waste, fraud, and abuse in Iraq reconstruction and troop support contracting and arose in response to the recent federal indictments of a former Halliburton official and subcontractor. In March of 2005, the Department of Justice announced that Jeffrey Mazon, a former Halliburton procurement manager, and Ali Hijazi, the managing partner of LaNouvelle General Trading and Contracting Company, a Kuwaiti firm and Halliburton subcontractor, had been indicted in relation to a kickback scheme through which the company overcharged the U.S. government by approximately $3.5 million. During resulting Subcommittee hearings, Congressman Lynch repeatedly asked Defense Department representatives whether, in light of the indictments, all contracts involving Mr. Mazon, Mr. Hijazi, or LaNouvelle were being reviewed. Unfortunately, aside from very vague assurances that a contractual review is "ongoing,” these officials failed to offer any specifics on the nature, scope, and any results of the work. According to Congressman Lynch, "Our goal with this legislation is to assist in tracking the flow of up to $20 billion that has already been misallocated or unaccounted for in Iraq and ensure greater governmental transparency and accountability as we continue towards the stabilization and reconstruction of Iraq. Regrettably, the extent of financial waste, fraud, and abuse amounts to a lost opportunity to provide meaningful assistance to the Iraqi people and has frustrated our overall policy in Iraq, an effort for which we've sacrificed a great deal financially and, more importantly, the lives of more than 2,000 of our men and women in uniform.” Lynch added, "This is a matter of common sense. Clearly, these indictments have raised significant questions regarding the integrity of other contracts involving these parties, yet a comprehensive contractual review does not appear to be a priority for the Defense Department. It's about time we adopt a real system of accountability.” Specifically, Lynch's bill would promote greater governmental transparency and accountability in Iraq Reconstruction contracting by requiring the Secretary of Defense to: Review all defense contracts (including a task or delivery order contract) entered into on or after March 1, 2003 by the Defense Department that: 1) relate to reconstruction or troop support in Iraq; and 2) involve any contractor, subcontractor, or federal officer/employee that has been indicted or convicted for fraud or any other violation of federal law with respect to another Defense Department contract relating to reconstruction or troop support in Iraq. Notify the House Government Reform and Armed Services Committees and Senate Governmental Affairs and Armed Services Committees when the review required by the Act has begun. Complete the review and submit a subsequent report to the appropriate Committees within 180 days of enactment. Rep. Lynch’s legislation has seven original cosponsors, including Rep. Henry Waxman, the Ranking Member of the Government Reform Committee, and Rep. Tom Lantos, the Ranking Member of the International Relations Committee. Copies of the "Iraq Contracting Fraud Review Act of 2005" are available upon request. -30-
11.17.2005	Today, Senator Kerry, Senator Kennedy, and Congressman Lynch announced the allocation of $500,000 for the William Joiner Fellowship Program included in the FY 2006 Science, The Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Conference Report. The program is unique in offering fellowship funds for American writers and humanists residing either in the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States or abroad, whose work focuses on issues of local, national, or international conflict. For sixteen years, the William Joiner Center for the Study of War and Social Consequences at the University of Massachusetts at Boston has promoted many forms of dialogue aimed at acquiring a better understanding of war and its social consequences. The primary focus of the Joiner Center Programs has been the Vietnam War and its impact. However, the Center has touched on areas of conflict around the world. Senator Kerry said, "We can not afford not to invest in programs that seek solutions and common ground in our local and global community. William Joiner fellows work to understand the underlying causes of conflict so we can look toward peaceful solutions-- this important work must be continued.” Senator Kennedy said, "Today we face dangerous conflicts across the world, and instruments of diplomacy will be essential to resolving disputes in our increasingly interconnected global community. I’m proud UMASS-Boston is leading the way.” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "The William Joiner Center stands for global responsibility and leadership in a new era. I am pleased that the federal government has become a partner in their work, and am grateful to Senators Kennedy and Kerry for their continued efforts on behalf of the Center." William Joiner Fellowship Program selects fellows on an annual basis and pursues an aggressive campaign to recruit thinkers, writers, and community activists from around the world whose work explores new ways of examining human conflict. Each year, the program seeks to bring together applicants and fellows who represent the wide and rich diversity of local, national and international communities. The program awards between four and twelve fellowships annually. -30-
11.09.2005	WASHINGTON, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />DC – Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Senator John F. Kerry, and Representative Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the final budget for the Department of Energy contains $800,000 for the expansion of the Brockton Solar Brightfield project. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill that is expect to pass both the House and Senate shortly and be signed into law. "Mayor Yunits and Brockton have shown enormous leadership with the Brightfield project, and I’m excited we’ve been able to help this extraordinary project,” Senator Kennedy said. "In the years ahead, cities across the country will be looking for solutions that revitalize industrial properties and help meet the needs of the future, and they’ll be looking to Brockton because of the innovative work being done right here.” "During this time of sky rocketing energy prices, it's crucial that we expand Brockton’s Solar Brightfield. We need to reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, and we can do that by tapping America’s invention and innovation with these projects which help pioneer renewable, clean energies for the future," Senator Kerry said.Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "This $800,000 is a real shot in the arm for the City of Brockton. Because of the hard work of Mayor Jack Yunits and Mayor-Elect Jim Harrington and the entire Brockton delegation, the City is poised to become a nationwide leader in developing and promoting alternative energy sources. At a time of instability in the worldwide oil markets and rising gas and oil prices, Brockton's Brightfield project is precisely the kind of investment we should be supporting." "The funding for this new solar power project is great news for the City of Brockton as we continue to build a clean, healthy and safe city for our residents,” said Mayor Jack Yunits. "Renewable energy is the way of the future and I'm proud that Brockton is leading the way. ” Construction on the Brockton Brightfield project, New England’s largest solar array at a remediated brownfield site, began this summer. Located on the urban Grove Street location of the former Brockton Gas Works, the project currently consists of a 500-kilowat photovoltaic array and interpretive displays on an otherwise unusable 27-acre industrial site. Ultimately, more than 6,750 solar panels are planned as the Brightfield will grow incrementally to produce 1 full MW of power. Expansion of the project – which will extend the Brightfield to another property across the street -- will be financed mainly through a creative and innovative plan based on the sale of renewable energy credits (RECs) through long-term contracts. The City of Brockton has developed this Brightfield project in close collaboration with the State of Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust, the US Environmental Protection Agency, and the US Department of Energy. In addition, the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative, has awarded the project more than $1 million to initiate construction. -30-
11.04.2005	Washington, DC – Today, Senators Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John F. Kerry (D-Mass) and Representative Stephen Lynch (D-Mass) announced a $75,000 grant for the Captain Forbes House Museum in Milton, Massachusetts. Captain Robert Bennet Forbes spearheaded the expansion of US trade with China in the 19th century. His home is now a National Historic Landmark. This grant will be used to replace the deteriorated roof on the carriage house of his National Historic Landmark Home. Senator Kennedy said, "I’m thrilled that this unique treasure will be restored for future generations to appreciate and enjoy. The people of Milton have always played an vital role in the history of the Commonwealth, and now this important piece of history will be preserved.” Senator Kerry said, "The Captain Forbes House Museum holds a special place in Milton's history, and I'm happy that we could work to make these funds available to preserve this important landmark. With these preservation efforts, the people of Milton and all across the state will be able to enjoy the museum for generations to come." Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "This grant is good news for the Town of Milton. I am pleased that the Department of Interior recognized the town's commitment to honoring its past, and its role in our nation's history. Now, this historic landmark will be preserved for future generations of Milton residents and visitors to Milton alike." The funds are among $14.89 million awarded to 61 projects in 29 states and the District of Columbia. The funds are provided under the fiscal year 2005 U.S. Department of Interior’s Save America’s Treasures grants program which preserves nationally significant intellectual and cultural artifacts and historic structures and sites. A dollar-for-dollar non-Federal match is required. The National Park Service administers the grants in partnership with the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Institute for Museum and Library Services, and the President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. -30-
10.27.2005	<?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Washington, D.C. – The House Labor and Working Families Caucus praised President Bush’s decision today to reinstate workers’ rights protections for those working in the Gulf region on November 8th. The House Labor and Working Families Caucus Caucus Co-Chairs, Representatives Michael H. Michaud (ME-2), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-9), and Linda Sanchez (CA-39) have been working closely with their House colleagues to reverse the September decision made by the and to ensure that workers’ rights and wages are protected under the Davis-Bacon Act. "There has been a mighty effort by workers and Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle to help workers in the devastated region have the fair wage protections needed to recover,” Michaud said. "This is not a political issue. It’s been a worker protection issue. President Bush has been forced to pay attention and take notice. The news today is a positive step forward in the region’s recovery.” Congressman Lynch said, "After visiting the Gulf Coast region and reviewing the devastation and despair, I was absolutely stunned that the first act of the president was to take executive action to cut the federal wage supports for people in Mississippi and Louisiana. I thought to myself, if my house was under twenty feet of water, is that what I'd really need? I talked with a lot of folks in Louisiana and Mississippi when I was down there after Katrina. A lot of people were asking for help in finding lost relatives, trying to get clean water, trying to get the power back on. I have to admit, not one person asked me to cut their wages. I have to ask, "What was the president thinking?" I'm happy he came to his senses and changed his mind. This was just a bald attempt to help his pals at the ABC take advantage of an emergency in order to generate profits. It was disgraceful to begin with, especially because wages are pretty low there already. It's about time that the Bush Administration did something right.” "I am very pleased that President Bush finally relented and reinstated Davis-Bacon, almost two months after he first suspended it. The President's bad judgment and refusal to reinstate Davis-Bacon the last two months resulted in lost jobs and wages for hard-working people in the Gulf Coast who were displaced by low-paid out-of-state workers. I hope that this action will give a boost to the hundreds of thousands of workers in the Gulf Region who are rebuilding their lives and communities," said Congresswoman Linda Sanchez. Recently, Education and the Workforce Ranking Member George Miller introduced a Joint Resolution (H.J.Res 69) that would have forced the House to vote by early November on whether or not to allow the wage cut to stand. This action, in part, spurred the White House to make the rescission announcement today. In September, the Labor Caucus sent a joint letter condemning President Bush’s rescission of the Davis-Bacon Act, requesting an immediate reversal of the decision. The executive order allowed federal contractors rebuilding in the Hurricane Katrina-ravaged areas of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, and Mississippi to pay workers at rates below the prevailing wage. The caucus has been actively working with House leadership and labor unions to reinstate these protections. The Davis-Bacon law requires federal contractors to pay its workers at least the prevailing wage on construction projects, including highways, buildings, and bridges. On September 8th, President Bush suspended the requirements of the Davis-Bacon law for designated areas hit by the storm. -30-
10.27.2005	Staff members of Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will be holding open office hours throughout the Ninth Congressional District in the month of November. Below is a list of upcoming office hours. Look for when staff members are coming to your town! Congressman Lynch maintains two full-time District Offices in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Boston and Brockton, as well as his office in Washington, DC. Residents of the 9th District are always welcome to call or visit any of the Congressman’s offices. If you have any questions, please call our Boston District Office at (617) 428-2000. Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Tuesday, November 1, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Walpole Town Hall Main Meeting Room 135 School Street, Walpole Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Tuesday, November 1, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Medfield Town Hall Warrant Committee Room 459 Main Street, Medfield Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 3, 2005 9:00-11:00 AM Hanson Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 542 Liberty Street, Hanson Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, November 3, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Dedham Town Hall Francis W. O’Brien Meeting Room 26 Bryant Street, Dedham Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, November 3, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Westwood Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 580 High Street, Westwood Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 3, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Whitman Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 54 South Avenue, Whitman Open Office Hours with Tamika Correia Monday, November 7, 2005 2:00 – 4:00 PM East Bridgewater Town Hall 175 Central Street, East Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Tuesday, November 8, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Avon Council on Aging 65 East Main Street, Avon Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Tuesday, November 8, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Randolph Town Hall Washington Room 41 South Main Street, Randolph Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Wednesday, November 9, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Norwood Town Hall Financial Committee Meeting Room 556 Washington Street, Norwood Open Office Hours with Tamika Correia Wednesday, November 9, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Bridgewater Selectmen’s Office Memorial Building 25 South Street, Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Wednesday, November 9, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Canton Town Hall Salah Meeting Room 801 Washington Street, Canton Open Office Hours with Tamika Correia Wednesday, November 9, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM West Bridgewater Town Hall 65 North Main Street, West Bridgewater Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 10, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Holbrook Town Hall Selectmen’s Meeting Room 50 N. Franklin Street, Holbrook Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, November 10, 2005 9:00 – 11:00 AM Easton Town Hall Mary Connolly Meeting Room 136 Elm Street, Easton Open Office Hours with Bob Fowkes Thursday, November 10, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM Braintree Town Hall Auditorium 1 JFK Drive, Braintree Open Office Hours with Jim Gordon Thursday, November 10, 2005 1:00 – 3:00 PM StoughtonTown Hall Fitzpatrick Room 10 Pearl Street, Stoughton -30-
10.27.2005	Washington, DC-Congressmen Barney Frank and Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the House of Representatives passed legislation increasing the loan limits of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for high cost areas such as Massachusetts. The vote is a victory for middle class people who wish to become homeowners, but who live and work in areas where housing costs have outpaced the national average. The bill passed by the House yesterday would increase the loan limits up to the local area median home prices, to a maximum ceiling of $539,475. Currently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can only back or purchase mortgages up to $359,650, however, as many in Boston and other high cost areas of Massachusetts already know, home values and mortgages are significantly above that figure. It is estimated that the new loan limits would help nearly 250,000 first-time homeowners nationwide. "This provision will help enable middle class people who are currently shut out of homeownership to purchase homes," said Congressman Frank. "We live in a high cost area, and we need to make sure that middle class people are not driven out because they cannot secure a mortgage." Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "in recent years, we have seen many working families priced out of the neighborhoods where they grew up, as the cost of purchasing a home continues to skyrocket. This initiative will enable thousands more American families to achieve their dream of homeownership and create stronger ties within our communities." "The cost of housing in Massachusetts is high, making it difficult for many to afford a home of their own," stated Congressman Michael Capuano. "This provision will help more of our residents achieve the American Dream of home ownership." Since housing prices vary across the nation, the geographical distribution of conforming loans is uneven. In high cost areas, such as greater Boston -- and places like New York and Los Angeles -- entry-level home prices often exceed the median home price and the conforming loan limit. The House also defeated an amendment by conservative House members that would have prevented the geographic adjustment of loan limits in areas where prices are measurably higher. Similarly, late in 2003, the House passed Mr. Frank's legislation to raise the loan limits for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured multi-family unit construction in high cost areas such as greater Boston. That legislation allowed the Department of Housing and Urban Development to increase loan limits in high cost areas by up to 240% of the limit in non-high cost areas, and by up to 270% with special approval by HUD. -30-
10.26.2005	The entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation -- Senators Kerry and Kennedy and Representatives Markey, Frank, Neal, Olver, Meehan, McGovern, Tierney, Delahunt, Capuano, and Lynch -- joined together today to urge Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Acting Director R. David Paulison to act on last week’s request for a federal disaster declaration in the Commonwealth. In a letter sent today, the Massachusetts Congressional delegation called on FEMA to move forward on the Commonwealth’s request for aid following October’s devastating floods. The Delegation cited over $11 million in damage already incurred by the state, specifically to public infrastructure and personal property. "Communities in Massachusetts are really hurting from all the recent flooding. We can't let red tape get in the way of relief. FEMA needs to immediately act on our request and come to the aid of our towns that have faced substantial damage to roads, bridges, dams and private homes and businesses," said Senator Kerry. Senator Kennedy said, "The needs of those affected by the floods in Massachusetts should come first while FEMA reviews our request to declare Massachusetts a federal disaster area. With every day that passes, this Administration continues to put bureaucracy before the needs of Americans.” For Massachusetts this is an urgent matter affecting dozens of our local communities. FEMA needs to act now so that all the affected counties can deal effectively with the damage from flooding," said Rep. Markey "Slow responses from FEMA are unacceptable, and we need to have the emergency declaration as soon as possible," said Rep. Frank. "I hope that FEMA will move expeditiously, so people can get the help they need." Last week, I visited flood damaged communities throughout western and central Massachusetts. I saw families displaced, homes destroyed, and many roads and bridges washed away. It is essential that cities and towns in our state receive the federal assistance they so desperately need. I urge FEMA to act now," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "In some instances, the flooding left people with no home or possessions. Dealing with the aftermath, people now risk wiping out their life savings or their children’s college funds. The damage in Western Mass may not be as widespread as in the Gulf Coast, but the impact is just as real for families in communities all over my district -- from Greenfield to Pittsfield -- who have been displaced or lost their homes,” said Congressman Olver. "FEMA needs to respond to our request for a federal disaster declaration so we can begin to secure temporary housing and supplies for the victims of these floods," Meehan said. "Federal assistance will provide much needed relief for those families victimized by the flooding who do not have the necessary resources needed to get back on their feet. "The flooding crisis in Massachusetts is real, and it must be addressed," Rep. McGovern said. "FEMA must cut through the red tape and get the people affected by this crisis the help and assistance they need and deserve. I urge them to act as quickly as possible." It is our hope that FEMA will accelerate its response to schools, roads and bridges in Massachusetts damaged by recent flooding," said U.S. Rep. John F. Tierney Congressman Delahunt said, "We seem to be able to airlift reconstruction supplies to Iraq virtually overnight, yet our own people have to wait days or weeks for a trickle of basic assistance. By the time this flood aid arrives, our folks will be digging out from our first blizzard." "I urge FEMA to act on the Commonwealth's request for a disaster declaration so that more resources will be available to the many communities needing assistance. Enough time has passed," stated Congressman Mike Capuano. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "In light of yesterday's Northeaster and the property damage that occurred, it is imperative that FEMA quickly approve an emergency federal disaster declaration for all those areas of our State that were directly impacted by the floods of early October. Tuesday's storm only magnified the hardships that property owners are enduring. It is time for FEMA to step in and approve the necessary recovery assistance for the entire Commonwealth of Massachusetts." LETTER ATTACHED (PDF VERSION AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST) October 26, 2005 R. David Paulison Acting Director Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street SW Washington, DC 20472 Dear Director Paulison: As you are well aware, Governor Mitt Romney last week requested a federal disaster declaration for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts because of severe flooding throughout the state, and we have urged you to support that request. While we appreciate that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued an emergency declaration for Bristol County, we are very concerned over the slow pace of FEMA’s response to other hard-hit areas across that state that have suffered through near continuous rainfall since October 7. The Commonwealth has identified over $11 million in damage caused by the flooding. Schools, road, bridges and other public infrastructure have been damaged. Two hundred and fifty homes have suffered major damage, seventy five have been destroyed, and over two thousand have incurred enough damage to warrant individual assistance. We recognize that FEMA is handling multiple weather disasters. However, we also know that FEMA has had assessment personnel on the ground for several days and that the Commonwealth is working hard to provide accurate damage information. We do not understand the ongoing delay. We request that you immediately review the matter and make a favorable recommendation to the President so that FEMA can begin helping the affected communities. Sincerely, MEMBERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION -30-
10.26.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Easton has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $10,710, will be used to fund the purchase of new radio pagers. Easton is the second community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2005. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> This is the second fire grant for the Easton Fire Department in less than a year. The Department previously was awarded $225,000 in federal funding to purchase a new Rescue/Pumper firefighting vehicle. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2005 awards will represent a $650 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Chief Thomas Stone and the Easton Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Easton. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with Senator Bob Creedon and Representatives Christine Canavan, Geraldine Creedon and David Flynn to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Easton was one of just 9 fire departments in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Easton’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Stone at the Fire Department that has made Easton so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
10.26.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Westwood has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $101,415, will be used to fund the purchase of new radios and communications equipment to improve interoperability. Westwood is the third community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in 2005. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> This is the second fire grant awarded to the Westwood Fire Department. In 2002, the Department received $7,290 in federal funding to purchase new safety equipment and fund firefighter training. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2005 awards will represent a $650 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Westwood. Chief Bill Scoble put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with Senator Marian Walsh and Representative Bob Coughlin to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Westwood was one of just 9 fire departments in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Westwood’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Scoble at the Fire Department that has made Westwood so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
09.15.2005	Washington, D.C. -- The House Labor and Working Families Caucus Co-Chairs, Representatives Michael H. Michaud (ME-2), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-9) and Linda Sanchez (CA-39), announced today that they sent a letter to President George W. Bush requesting immediate rescission of his recent executive order to allow federal contractors rebuilding in the Hurricane Katrina-ravaged areas of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, and Mississippi to pay workers at rates below the prevailing wage. The Co-Chairs of the Labor and Working Families Caucus have been working closely with their House colleagues to ensure that workers’ rights and wages are protected. "At a time when so many are working to rebuild their lives after the hurricane, it sets a dangerous precedent to waive these important worker protections,” the Co-Chairs stated in the letter. "Undermining this basic worker protection law also serves to further economically depress a region that has been so devastated by natural destruction. This is a cost we simply cannot afford.” The Davis-Bacon law requires federal contractors to pay its workers at least the prevailing wage on construction projects, including highways, buildings, and bridges. On September 8th, President Bush suspended the requirements of the Davis-Bacon law for designated areas hit by the storm. The letter concludes: "Waiving the Davis-Bacon protections encourages contractors to take advantage of desperation, ultimately compromising the work quality on all construction projects. The local workers themselves deserve the kind of fair wage rates that will lift up their circumstances and provide hope. To deprive already suffering workers in this region the wage protections provided by Davis-Bacon, is to only victimize them a second time." The text of the letter to President Bush appears below: September 13, 2005 George W. Bush President of the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Bush, As co-founders of the House Labor and Working Families Caucus, we are writing to express our outrage regarding your executive order allowing federal contractors rebuilding in the Hurricane Katrina-ravaged areas of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi to pay rates below the prevailing wage. We ask that you immediately rescind your executive order. As you know, the Davis-Bacon law requires federal contractors to pay its workers at least the prevailing wage on construction projects, including highways, buildings, and bridges. At a time when so many are working to rebuild their lives after the hurricane, it sets a dangerous precedent to waive these important worker protections. Undermining this basic worker protection law also serves to further economically depress a region that has been so devastated by natural destruction. This is a cost we simply cannot afford. As you know, the federal government must help restore order to the Gulf region as well. Waiving the Davis-Bacon protections encourages contractors to take advantage of desperation, ultimately compromising the work quality on all construction projects. The people of the Gulf region who will be displaced for weeks, and perhaps for several years, deserve to return to home towns with secure and safe infrastructure. The local workers themselves deserve the kind of fair wage rates that will lift up their circumstances and provide hope. To deprive a worker who has already struggled in this region of Davis-Bacon wage rates is to victimize them a second time. In an area so afflicted with poverty and with so many workers struggling to care for their families, waiving this basic worker protection is a big step in the wrong direction. Again, we urge your immediate action to rescind this executive order. Sincerely, _________________ __________________ __________________ Michael H. Michaud Stephen F. Lynch Linda Sanchez Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress -30-
09.13.2005	Firstly, I would like to begin by welcoming Chairman Candice Miller to the 9th Congressional District here in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Boston, I thank you for your willingness to travel here to Boston and agreeing to hold this important field hearing. The focus of this hearing has been described as "OxyContin and Beyond: Examining the Role of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) in Regulating Prescription Painkillers.” I think it is important to clarify that this hearing is not just about any particular piece of legislation. Rather we are here to examine the recently amended and accelerated FDA drug-approval process that has somehow allowed a series of drugs to come onto the market, make their way into our pharmacies, only to be removed by the force of litigation and government pressure after fatalities and widespread injury to individual consumers. Unfortunately, we have many examples: Vioxx, the cox-2 inhibitor, with 27,000 heart attacks and sudden cardiac deaths before it was eventually pulled from the market; Ephedra, an appetite suppressant with 1,000 reports of serious health complications from its use and at least 100 Ephedra-related deaths; OxyContin, produced by Purdue-Pharma with hundreds dead from overdose and thousands hopelessy addicted—and this is 2002 data; and most recently Palladone, a potent narcotic painkiller twice as powerful as OxyContin and also produced by Purdue-Pharma, pulled from the market nine months after initial FDA approval. These developments in and of themselves would be serious but it’s important to note that in the case of Purdue-Pharma a federal appeals court has recently ruled that their patent rights are invalid because Purdue-Pharma had lied to the united states patent and trademark office on its original application. The revocation of exclusive patent rights will now allow other pharmaceutical companies to produce generic versions of OxyContin which will result in wider availability and therefore greater potential for abuse. This issue came to my attention through our own experience with OxyContin. We are here today because too many people in our communities and neighborhoods are struggling with the problem of prescription painkiller abuse, as well as the misprescription of these drugs, most notably OxyContin. According to a recent survey, OxyContin abuse was second only to heroin as the drug of abuse among patients in non-methadone treatment programs in Boston. However, this problem is not just confined to Boston and it is not just a problem impacting the inner cities of our nation. Rural communities such as Maine, West Virginia and Kentucky as well as suburban communities from arizona to ohio are all grappling with the problem of OxyContin abuse and diversion. In 2003, an estimated 2.8 million americans had, at some point in their lives, used OxyContin for non-medical purposes, a significant increase from the 1.9 million in 2002. We are also very much aware that narcotic painkillers, such as OxyContin, can be used successfully by chronic pain sufferers, including cancer patients, to relieve pain. In fact, Purdue-Pharma originally presented the drug as being specifically for cancer patients and severe and chronic pain sufferers. I find it remarkable that this drug was put on the market without any study pointing to its addictive properties. Which leads to the underlying question we have for FDA and DEA—knowing the power of these drugs, knowing the pervasiveness of modern marketing techniques and also taking into consideration the astounding profit motive for drugs that create "customers for life”— how addictive will we allow these drugs to become and still be legally marketed? Also, there is compounding difficulty here in the fact that absent a significant number of drug-related deaths such as we have seen with Vioxx, Ephedra, and I’d argue OxyContin, once a drug receives FDA approval it is virtually impossible to require further research to improve its safety. That condition leaves legislators in a position where the only option we have is to recommend the banning of that pharmaceutical. Admittedly, that is not the ideal solution. However, much remains unknown about those "accidental addicts” patients who are legitimately prescribed narcotic painkillers by their doctor and yet become addicted. The story of OxyContin, its approval from FDA, its marketing strategy, and its abuse and diversion, all illustrate the inability of the current regulatory framework to appropriately address the problems inherent in controlled substances. Because the active ingredient in OxyContin, oxycodone, was a known quantity to FDA, it was not given any special consideration with regard to its potential for abuse and diversion during the approval process. OxyContin undertook a drug approval process that examined its safety and efficacy when used as directed. Therefore the FDA, DEA, physicians and patients were caught unaware of the addictive potential of this drug and its attraction to those who would abuse it. I believe that there are several concrete ways in which this issue can be addressed through the regulatory process and legislatively if necessary. It is my hope and expectation that through this field hearing we can explore possible avenues on the federal level as well as learn what our counterparts on the state level are doing. We know that the significant growth in the use of OxyContin to treat patients suffering from chronic pain has been accompanied by widespread reports of abuse and diversion that have devastated individuals and their families and in some cases has led to death. However, the concern around OxyContin is about both those abusing the drug and who are breaking the law to gain access to the drug as well as those individuals who were legally prescribed the drug for pain control but became addicted. Before the product OxyContin ever came to the commercial market, the manufacturer Purdue-Pharma recognized its potential blockbuster status. However, when Purdue-Pharma began to expand the market for OxyContin to include patients who suffered from non-cancerous moderate to severe acute and chronic pain from broken bones, dental pain and lower back pain, we began to see the consequences of Purdue-Pharma’s irresponsible marketing. Frankly, as this drug was prescribed more and more we began to see more and more addicted. Not enough is known to date about the phenomenon of addiction that is the result of medical care. And yet, an alarming number of patients may be becoming addicted, specifically to prescription pain medication, after legitimately receiving a prescription for such treatment. According to a 2004 survey conducted by the opiate dependency treatment center, the world renowned Waismann Institute in California, 44 percent of respondents dependent on OxyContin were initially prescribed the product by a doctor. We simply need to better understand the science of addiction to ensure that patients and doctors have all the information necessary to move forward with appropriate treatment plans. Moreover, comparative studies are needed to assess the relative addictiveness, efficacy and safety of available drugs. Although undoubtedly much good clinical science is undertaken in drug trials done by pharmaceutical companies, it is also true there are too many opportunities for manipulation. As a result medicines may be coming to market before they have been properly vetted or without having enough information to provide to patients and doctors specifically about a drug’s potential for abuse. For instance, we have much to learn from our recent experience with Palladone, a potent narcotic painkiller twice as powerful as OxyContin. On September 24, 2004, FDA approved Palladone, a new 24-hour extended release morphine based medication with a high potential for abuse. FDA said it incorporated elements from the national drug control strategy into the approval process for Palladone. For example, FDA required the inclusion of a "black box” warning on the drug’s label and medication guide. Additionally, FDA required the manufacturer to implement a Palladone risk management plan. However, less than nine months after its initial approval, on July 13, 2005, Palladone was abruptly withdrawn from the market by the FDA because of evidence that the drug’s interaction with even minor amounts of alcohol in the patient’s system could lead to death. It is also noteworthy that Palladone had been approved by FDA in September of 2004, and yet the FDA stated it did not receive adequate data from Purdue-Pharma until later which ultimately led to the drug’s withdrawal from the marketplace. Because Purdue-Pharma is responsible for undertaking clinical trials and then picks and chooses the data it presents to the FDA for approval, problems can arise after a drug has already been approved and marketed. Many times the problems are not uncovered until the drug is exposed to thousands of patients who report adverse reactions. Thankfully, in the case of Palladone, previous data highlighted the problem so that there were no reported adverse reactions in the patient population. The potential for harm illustrated by this case is enormous. It is clear that the FDA, DEA and the congress need to do a better job in this area. As described earlier, OxyContin addiction and abuse has severely affected my district and the people I represent, as well as many communities nationwide. The experiences of FDA and DEA in regulating OxyContin and other Class II controlled substances provides us with a useful case study. Although, both the FDA and the DEA learned many valuable lessons from the OxyContin experience, it is clear that there is more that can be accomplished through the regulatory process. I look forward to hearing today from Dr. Robert J. Meyer from the FDA and Joseph Rannazzisi from the DEA about their experiences with OxyContin and how they are applying those lessons. Additionally, we have the distinct honor of hearing from two outspoken leaders and energetic advocates of the people they represent in my friend Senator Steven Tolman from Watertown and my friend and neighbor Representative Brian Wallace from South Boston. I look forward to hearing both their perspectives as state leaders on how they’ve addressed the issue of prescription painkiller abuse—specifically OxyContin. Also, Dr. Janet L. Abraham, from the Dana Farber Cancer Institute is here representing the American Cancer Society to explain to us how these powerful drugs benefit the patients she sees everyday. I know Dr. Abraham will want to work with us here on the committee to ensure that her patients have access but are also protected from harm. And, finally, my good friend John McGahan is here to talk about the work he does with the Gavin Foundation and the adolescents and families he sees at the Cushing House in South Boston. These two community institutions have been working non-stop to treat men and women, young and old, who are addicted to drugs and alcohol. It is my understanding that all 16 beds at the Cushing House are now filled by adolescents addicted to OxyContin. I think we will all find his testimony disturbing but enlightening. Once again, I want to thank everyone for attending this hearing today. I really do believe that together we can come up with some potential legislative and regulatory fixes on the federal level that will keep our communities, our families, and our children safe. Thank you again Chairman Miller for recognizing the importance of this topic and attending today’s hearing. -30-
09.13.2005	On Tuesday, September 13, at 11:00 AM, Chairman Candice Miller (R-MI) and Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) of the U.S. House Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs will hold a Field Hearing on the regulation of Schedule II prescription painkillers like OxyContin. At the hearing, the Subcommittee will hear testimony from representatives of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Massachusetts House and Senate, a substance abuse treatment facility and the American Cancer Society. As a result of the extensive abuse of OxyContin and the federal government’s lack of cohesive oversight policy for this Class II Controlled Substance, Congressman Lynch has introduced legislation that would ban the drug from the market. WHO: Chairman Candice Miller (R-MI) Ranking Member Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) Dr. Robert Meyer, Food and Drug Administration Joseph Rannazzisi, Drug Enforcement Admin. MA State Senator Steven Tolman MA State Representative Brian Wallace John McGahan, Cushing House Executive Director Dr. Janet L. Abrahm, American Cancer Society WHAT: "OxyContin and Beyond: Examining the Role of FDA and DEA in Regulating Prescription Painkillers” WHEN: Tuesday, September 13, 2005 TIME: 11:00 AM WHERE: Supreme Judicial Court of Suffolk County John Adams Courthouse Oliver Wendell Holmes Courtroom #2 1 Pemberton Square, Boston -30-
09.13.2005	The Massachusetts delegation has sent the following letter to President Bush today to show support for Governor Romney’s initial request to make an emergency declaration for Massachusetts. On September 9th, Governor Romney requested the President to make an emergency declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Act ("Stafford Act”) for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in response to Hurricane Katrina. Thus far, 29 states have received a federal emergency declaration under the Stafford Act because of Hurricane Katrina, making those states eligible for disaster recovery assistance. Under the Stafford Act, a governor may seek an emergency declaration for his or her state from the President. An emergency declaration expedites a range of federal resources for disaster recovery. The aid is financed through the Department of Homeland Security’s Disaster Relief Fund (DRF). Senator Kennedy said, "Communities of Massachusetts are welcoming victims of Katrina with open arms. The emergency declaration is needed to enable them to receive the best care possible in the Commonwealth, and I hope the President will approve it as soon as possible as he has done in the case of other states receiving evacuees.” "The people of Massachusetts have opened their arms to Hurricane Katrina's victims. We are working to get this disaster declaration right away, so we can get help to those who need it without further delay," said Senator John Kerry. "The Commonwealth's compassionate efforts to provide aid to those affected by Hurricane Katrina should be recognized by the President and appropriate assistance from the federal government should be forthcoming," said Congressman John F. Tierney. Congressman Delahunt said, "The New England tradition of neighbor helping neighbor is alive and well. As we care for people whose lives were so disrupted by Hurricane Katrina, we'll continue to pursue reimbursement for communities that opened their hearts and homes.” "Massachusetts has open its door to help those in need, and now it is time for the federal government to do its part," said Congressman Frank. "To adequately meet the needs of the Hurricane Katrina evacuees at Camp Edwards, it is essential that Massachusetts be granted this emergency declaration request. I join my colleagues in urging President Bush to act expeditiously on this matter," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The people of Massachusetts have leapt to action to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina," Rep. McGovern said. "I urge the Bush Administration to approve Massachusetts' request for an emergency declaration. It's the right thing to do." Congressman Olver said, "So far, Massachusetts has been able to provide hundreds of evacuees with shelter and 30-day emergency benefit packages, but in order to offer continued assistance we need the support of the federal government and an emergency declaration from FEMA.” "We need to work fast to expedite assistance to the residents of Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama whose lives were destroyed in Hurricane Katrina. The Commonwealth is already supporting more than 200 evacuees. We are ready to provide resources and shelter for more citizens in this time of need, but first we need the federal government to support us in helping these evacuees rebuild their lives immediately." Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "It is imperative that the evacuees from hurricane Katrina receive the highest quality of services that our State can provide. It is my hope that this emergency declaration will ensure that those services will be directed to the displaced families that are here and for those that are on the way." "In a time of crisis, Massachusetts has acted in the spirit of national unity. By taking in over 200 people from the Gulf and offering to accept as many as 2,500, we have risen without question to do our part,” said Congressman Meehan. "Now the federal government must do its part to ensure that evacuees receive the shelter, care, and services they need." The letter sent to President Bush today, signed by the entire Massachusetts delegation, is below: The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our strong support for the request by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for an emergency declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. We understand that Governor Mitt Romney already has taken the actions under state law required for such a declaration, and it is urgent for Massachusetts to obtain this declaration as soon as possible, so that the Hurricane Katrina evacuees may continue to receive the level of care they need and deserve. A federal disaster declaration will provide much-needed assistance to meet the immediate and longer-term needs of the evacuees, including shelter and emergency care. Currently, more than 200 evacuees are being cared for with state and local resources at Camp Edwards, a Cape Cod military base. The Commonwealth has enacted a $25 million emergency budget to provide assistance to as many as 2500 evacuees who may arrive from the hurricane region. Massachusetts was among the first states in the nation to offer assistance to Katrina evacuees. We believe that the federal government should reciprocate with an immediate emergency declaration for the state. With respect and appreciation, and we thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, [The Massachusetts Delegation] -30-
08.18.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Milton has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $97,550, will be used to purchase new protective turnout gear for Milton firefighters. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Milton is the first community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2005. Congressman Lynch also helped Milton to secure a Fire Grant in 2003 for $110,178 to purchase and install a new communications and dispatch center. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs. The total of all FY 2005 awards will represent a $650 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Milton. Chief Malcolm Larson put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we continue to work with State Representative Walter Timilty and our entire Milton Delegation at the State House to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” Chief Malcolm Larson said, "With the present budget conditions that many fire departments are under in Massachusetts, these types of grants are critical for firefighter safety, the protection of the public and our homeland security efforts.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $3 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Milton was one of just twenty-six fire departments in Massachusetts to be selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Milton’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Larson at the Fire Department and Chief Mearn at the Police Department that has made Milton so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
08.17.2005	On Sunday, October 2, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an information session for all high school students interested in applying to one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from each of the following Service Academies will make brief presentations and make themselves available for questions. · United States Military Academy at West Point · United States Naval Academy · United States Air Force Academy · United States Merchant Marine Academy · United States Coast Guard Academy All students and their families from the Ninth Congressional District are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Lynch’s Academy Day WHEN: Sunday, October 2, 2005 TIME: 2:00 – 4:00 PM WHERE: East Junior High School 305 River Street, Braintree CONTACT: Bob Fowkes (617) 428-2000 -30-
07.25.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today unveiled a report detailing the impact of President Bush’s Social Security plan on the families of the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Lynch requested the study from the House Committee on Government Reform. Among the findings: All workers within the Ninth District who are younger than 55 and earn more than $20,000 would see a reduction in benefits. Of the 290,000 workers in the District, 75% would lose part of their benefits. More than 146,000 workers would lose 10% of their benefits. At least 67,000 would lose 20%. The average benefit cut for workers in the District between the ages of 35 and 55 would be $2,640 annually. That figure increases to $6,960 for workers under 35. In total, workers in the Ninth District stand to lose nearly $20 billion. Three quarters of those cuts would come from people earning between $30,000 and $90,000 per year.Congressman Lynch also noted that benefits may be cut for widows and surviving children. Although the new proposal has not yet detailed the change in benefits, more than 18,200 surviving spouses and children in the Ninth District currently receive benefits. "Social Security is not in crisis,” said Congressman Lynch, citing the Congressional Budget Office’s recent finding that Social Security can continue paying full benefits until 2052. "There is no need to make rash decisions that will obviously place a financial burden on millions of people. We have the time and opportunity to make meaningful reforms that will protect and strengthen Social Security for generations to come. I’m hopeful that common sense will prevail and Democrats and Republicans will come together to provide for the long-term security of American retirees.” -30-
07.21.2005	Thank you, Mr. Waxman, for yielding me this time.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 22, the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. This bipartisan legislation seeks to provide a major reform of the U.S. Postal Service for the first time in over 35 years, to address the new reality after the post-9/11 anthrax attacks, and to ensure the financial soundness of this vital institution for years to come. I appreciate all the work done by the Chairman Tom Davis, Ranking Member Henry Waxman, Mr. McHugh, former Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Postal Service, and Mr. Davis, Ranking Member on the Federal Workforce and Agency Organization Subcommittee, in crafting a Bipartisan Bill. However, I’d also like to note that this effort could not have been possible without meaningful input from our postal employees and the leadership of the postal unions, including the American Postal Workers Union, the National Association of Letter Carriers, and the Mailhandlers, throughout this long process. They are some of the most dedicated and efficient employees in the world and we’ve all seen just how bravely they’ve continued to do their jobs in the face of the threat of biological attacks through the mail. Many people will remember that in the days and weeks following 9/11, we had a series of anthrax attacks, conducted through the mail system. Tragically, these attacks claimed the lives of two of our Postal Workers, Joseph Curseen, Jr. and Thomas Morris, Jr., at the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Brentwood facility in the D.C. area. At that point in time, these postal workers were faced with a difficult choice. That choice was to continue to come to work in a very dangerous environment, perhaps endangering their families or to stay out of work and risk bringing the mail to a halt–damaging our economy, upsetting the flow of commerce and shaking the confidence of the American people. They chose to keep working and they did so because many of these workers saw it as their patriotic duty to do so. Mr. Chairman, H.R. 22 takes note of their service and regards postal employees as partners and as our greatest asset toward effective Postal Reform. Notably, this bill does not seek to curtail essential worker rights and protections with respect to collective bargaining, compensation, or fringe benefits. In short, H.R. 22 recognizes that our postal employees are the key to maintaining a strong Postal Service. Mr. Chairman, I’d like to reiterate my support for the main bill and express my hope that we do not incorporate amendments that will compromise the stability of the Postal Service or the rights of its employees during today’s floor consideration. I yield the remainder of my time. -30-
07.20.2005	Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this so-called Central American Free Trade Agreement, CAFTA.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Mr. Speaker, prior to my election to congress I had a chance to view the effect of US Trade policy at its most basic level. That of the American worker. Prior to coming to this Congress, I worked for about twenty years as an ironworker and as a welder. I worked at the General Motors assembly plant in Framingham Massachusetts prior to GM's decision to close that plant and a number of others in Michigan in order to build plants in Mexico. I also worked as a welder at the General Dynamics Shipyard in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Quincy, Massachusetts, before foreign competition and misguided trade policies moved that work overseas. And I worked at the US Steel mills in Gary, Indiana, and at the Inland Steel mill in East Chicago, Indiana, before the steel industry relocated to third world countries in order to escape responsible labor and environmental standards. I've seen first-hand the effects anti-worker trade policy has had on American families, and I've seen the devastation that occurs in American cities and towns when we adopt trade policies that encourage U.S. companies to send U.S. jobs overseas. I've seen the impact on our schools and the fabric of our communities when large employers shut down the largest plant in town. I haven't been in the Congress that long, but one of the things that I find surprising is the way people in Washington talk about "job loss." People in Washington talk about job loss like it was a force of nature like the weather, as if a cold front rolled through here and swept two million U.S. jobs with it. The loss of U.S. jobs is not a random event. It is very much the result of deliberate policies that have been adopted to favor stockholders of multinational companies who benefit from those trade agreements and trade policies. CAFTA is one of those policies. It will result in massive gains for a few favored entities and do nothing for the workers in either the U.S. or in Central America. It is time that we reassess our trade policy and stop rewarding companies for abandoning American workers. It's also time to stop rewarding political leaders who put short-term profits above the long-term economic health of this nation. It's time to stop U.S. policies that simply exploit foreign workers by adopting trade agreements that have no labor standards or environmental standards. Our experience with NAFTA should inform our decision today. At the time of NAFTA’S passage in 1993, the U.S. trade deficit was $39 billion. Since then, it has soared to a record of over $617 billion in 2004; that’s a whopping 1,600 percent increase, and more than 5% of our nation’s GDP. It is ironic that with the situation in Iraq we hear so much about exporting democracy. Yet what we are doing here is exporting U.S. jobs and at the same time endorsing $2 a day jobs in Central America. But I think we have a fatal flaw in our foreign policy. You do not export democracy through the Defense Department. It is exported through our trade agreements. You do not export democracy by forcing workers to work for $2 a day. If you follow the path of exploitation fostered by the mercenary and "winner take all" trade agreements that set worker against worker in a race to the bottom, in the end, you will, in those countries, see a retrenchment of hope and rejection of democracy itself. -30-
07.01.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) joined more than 200 of his colleagues in calling on President Bush to address the $1.3 billion deficit in this year’s Department of Veterans Affairs health care budget. The group sent a letter to the President Wednesday, asking him to submit a request for emergency funding for FY2005, and to amend the FY2006 budget to alleviate next year’s budget shortfall as well. Their action came after Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Nicholson admitted the deficit in a hearing Tuesday.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> "This additional funding is urgently needed today to care for troops returning from <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the heroes from former conflicts who rely upon the VA for their health care,” wrote the Congressmen in their letter to the President. Last Friday, the Washington Post reported that the Bush Administration acknowledged that it is short more than $1 billion for covering current needs at the Department of Veterans Affairs this year, despite repeated efforts by House Democrats to fund VA healthcare. In response, the Senate voted unanimously on Wednesday to give the VA an extra $1.5 billion this year to cover the health care shortfall. But House Republicans today offered just $975 million, meaning additional work will have to be done to correct this serious problem. "VA medical centers across Greater Boston are simply unable to care for our veterans with the limited resources, staffing, and funding they have,” said Congressman Lynch. "VA hospitals in New England have had to close their operating rooms and force their nurses to work double shifts. We seem to find money in the budget for tax cuts, but there are no resources for the care of our veterans. This flies in the face of the principle of shared sacrifice that has lifted this country to where we are today. As a country, we must live up to our part of the bargain and support our veterans by providing the high-quality medical care they earned.” -30-
06.23.2005	Today, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced his strong opposition to a provision in the FY 2006 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill coming to the House Floor this week that cuts FY 2006 funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting by 25 percent – cutting the appropriation from $400 million to $300 million. "Public broadcasting is one of the cornerstones of our national media,” Congressman Lynch stated. "We’re talking about PBS and NPR. We’re talking about important educational tools used by millions of families nation wide. Public broadcasting shouldn’t be held hostage for political purposes.” The provision in the bill would cut $100 million in federal funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which is its primary source of funding. The Association of Public Television Stations has stated that these cuts are "so drastic that they will severely impact every public television and radio station’s ability to provide educational, cultural and informational programming in local communities and throughout the nation.” The Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) is the U.S.-taxpayer-funded agency that provides critical dollars to public broadcasting across the country. According to the nonpartisan Roper polling firm, Americans consider the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) the nation’s "most trusted” among nationally-known organizations. They also believe that PBS is the second "most valuable” service taxpayers receive, outranked only by national defense. The same poll also found that a majority of Americans believes the system receives too little funding. "My office, like many others, continues to receive hundreds of calls from citizens who are opposed to the cuts in funding,” explained Congressman Lynch. "I will continue to fight against these damaging cuts as this bill moves forward.” -30-
06.21.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Emily Burke of Tennyson Street in West Roxbury for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Emily, the daughter of Thomas and Mary Ellen Burke, is a sophomore at Boston College and a 2003 graduate of Boston Latin School.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Emily came highly regarded by the Navy and by her professors and coaches at Boston College. She is exceptional, and we expect great things from her. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the West Roxbury community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Emily Burke was selected as someone whose character and love of her country put her at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Emily is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Thomas and Mary Ellen Burke. I know that she will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Burke family, as well as the town of West Roxbury and the entire state have much to be proud of in Emily. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.21.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Christopher O’Brien of Howard Street in Braintree for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Chris, the son of Lawrence and Lois O’Brien, is a student at the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Chris came highly regarded by the Navy and by his professors at UMass Dartmouth. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Braintree community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Christopher O’Brien was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Chris is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Lawrence and Lois O’Brien. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The O’Brien family, as well as the town of Braintree and the entire state have much to be proud of in Chris. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.21.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Michael Fitzpatrick, Jr. of South Street in Walpole for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Michael, the son of Michael Fitzpatrick, Sr. and Valerie Ferrari, is Company Commander for his Army Reserve Unit and a 2002 graduate of Trinity Catholic High School.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Michael came highly regarded by the Army. He has served with honor and distinction over the last two years, and we expect great things from him in the future. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Walpole community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Michael Fitzpatrick, Jr. was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Michael is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Michael Fitzpatrick, Sr. and Valerie Ferrari. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Fitzpatrick and Ferrari families, as well as the town of Walpole and the entire state have much to be proud of in Michael. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.15.2005	Citing his commitment to better research, preventive screening, and treatment for breast cancer, the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) has given Rep. Stephen Lynch, (D-MA) a perfect rating on its biannual scorecard that ranks Members of Congress on their breast cancer-related voting records. The NBCC's voting scorecard rates Members of Congress on whether they supported the organizations five legislative priorities during the 108th Congress, which ran from 2003-2004. The NBCC's legislative priorities rated in the scorecard are: guaranteed access to quality health care for all; continued funding of the Department of Defense Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program; enactment of the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act; enactment of the House version of the Genetic Nondiscrimination in Health Insurance and Employment Act with strong enforcement provisions; and enactment of the Access to Cancer Therapies Act. Lynch supported all of those priorities."The National Breast Cancer Coalition recognizes Congressman Stephen Lynch for his perfect score in the Coalition's 108th Congressional Voting Record," said Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. "He supported breast cancer research funding through the Department of Defense, research on possible environmental causes of breast cancer, and strong legislation ensuring that no one is discriminated against in health insurance and employment as a result of genetic information. His leadership is crucial and we look forward to continuing our work with Congressman Lynch in 2005 and beyond." Upon receiving the award, Congressman Lynch said, "It has been a gratifying experience to work alongside the women and men of the National Breast Cancer Coalition and demand that our federal government invest the resources needed to prevent and effectively treat breast cancer. Like a lot of families, I’ve seen the trauma and devastation that occurs when a family member is diagnosed with breast cancer. Hopefully with increased levels of funding for breast cancer research and greater access to preventative care and the development of more effective treatments, I'm confident that we can find a way to cure this disease." The NBCC is a grassroots organization dedicated to ending breast cancer through the power of action and advocacy. The organization is the nation's largest breast cancer advocacy group, with more than 600 member organizations and 70,000 individual members and supporters. Committed to ending breast cancer, NBCC and its sister organization, the National Breast Cancer Coalition Fund, work to educate and train individuals to be effective activists and to influence the public policies that affect breast cancer research and treatment. Additional information about NBCC and its legislative priorities can be found at www.stopbreastcancer.org. -30-
06.13.2005	{ Washington, DC: Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), a member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, and Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA), a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff seeking answers on why Customs and Border Protection (CBP) inspectors at the Calais, Maine border crossing permitted an individual convicted of assault and carrying a cache of weapons to enter the United States in April. The individual, Gregory Depres, was scheduled to be sentenced in a Canadian court on assault charges the day he crossed the border in Maine, and on the day after he crossed the border, he was named a prime suspect in a gruesome double murder in Canada. He was arrested in Mattapoisett, Massachusetts, his last known address, and currently is being held on murder charges. "It’s outrageous that a chainsaw-toting convicted criminal claiming to be a Marine working on President Bush’s security detail was allowed to enter the United States. The bizarre story he spun for Customs inspectors at the border should have raised enough suspicions to prompt inspectors either to arrest him or deny him entry into the United States. We were fortunate that this individual was apprehended in Massachusetts before he could cause further harm and was not a terrorist determined to attack our country,” Rep. Markey said. Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Affairs, said, "What Congressman Markey and I are requesting is an official report from the Secretary of Homeland Security that details whether proper security measures were indeed taken here, and whether we should require agents to take further steps when dealing with suspicious persons like Mr. Despres in the future.” The letter asks Secretary Chertoff to respond to a series of questions, including: Were CBP inspectors at the Calais crossing aware that Mr. Despres had already been convicted of assault and was due in court to be sentenced for that assault on the day he appeared at the border crossing? Did CBP inspectors seek criminal history information about Mr. Despres from Canadian or U.S. law enforcement officials prior to letting him enter the U.S? If not, why not? What steps did CBP inspectors take to confirm his story that he was a Marine working on President Bush’s security detail? Is it the position of the Department of Homeland Security that inspectors at the Calais crossing properly handled the situation involving this individual? If not, what training or other reforms will the Department implement to ensure that CBP inspectors at our borders respond appropriately if similar situations occur in the future? A copy of the letter follows: The Honorable Michael Chertoff Secretary Department of Homeland Security Nebraska Avenue NW Washington, DC 202528 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express our concern about recent press reports that indicate Customs and Border Protection (CBP) inspectors at the Calais, Maine border crossing permitted an individual transporting a homemade sword, a hatchet, a knife, brass knuckles and a chain saw apparently stained with blood to enter the United States from Canada on April 25, 2005 ("Man With Chain Saw, Sword Is Let Into U.S.”, Associated Press, June 8, 2005). While CBP inspectors reportedly confiscated these weapons and fingerprinted the individual, Gregory Despres, they ultimately allowed him to cross the border into the United States. It has been determined that on the same day he crossed the border, Mr. Despres was scheduled to be sentenced in a Canadian court on assault charges, and on the day after he crossed the border, Mr. Despres was named a prime suspect in a gruesome double murder in Canada. This chilling case raises serious questions about security procedures at our border crossings. We would appreciate the Department’s responses to the following questions: (1) Were CBP inspectors at the Calais crossing aware that Mr. Despres had already been convicted of assault and was due in court to be sentenced for that assault on the day he appeared at the border crossing? If yes, why was he nonetheless permitted to enter the United States? If no, did CBP inspectors seek this or other related criminal history information about Mr. Despres from Canadian or U.S. law enforcement officials prior to letting him enter the U.S? If CBP did not seek criminal history information about the Mr. Despres, why not? Would information about Mr. Depres’ previous arrest for assault have enabled CBP inspectors to deny entry or arrest Mr. Despres at the border crossing? (2) According to media reports, Mr. Jayson Ahern, CBP assistant commissioner for field operations, confirmed that Mr. Despres told CBP inspectors that he was a sergeant in the U.S. Marines who worked for President Bush. News accounts suggest that he also boasted of being responsible for "700 kills” as a trained sniper. While detaining Mr. Despres, did CBP contact the Marine Corps to confirm Mr. Despres’s account? If yes, what was the outcome of this communication? If not, why not? Did CBP inspectors contact the Secret Service to confirm Mr. Despres’ claim that he worked for President Bush? If yes, what was the outcome of this communication? If not, why not? (3) In the words of Mr. Ahern, Mr. Despres "certainly did demonstrate bizarre behavior” at the Calais crossing.[1] As you know, lying to a federal investigator and falsely claiming to be a federal employee are both federal offenses that would have provided justification for CBP inspectors to arrest Mr. Despres.[2] Should Mr. Despres’ strange conduct have cast doubt on the veracity of the claims he made to CBP inspectors regarding his service in the Marines and his role on President Bush’s security detail? (4) The Associated Press quotes customs official William Heffelfinger as follows: "We did not allow him to leave the port with the chain saw, the sword, the brass knuckles or the handcuffs - all of that we seized. So when he left the port he wasn’t armed with anything." Did Mr. Despres attempt to conceal any of these materials while crossing into the U.S.? Is attempting to conceal dangerous items such as weapons from CBP inspectors sufficient reason to deny entry? (5) Do you agree with Mr. Ahern that CBP inspectors at the Calais crossing properly handled the situation involving Mr. Despres? If not, what training or other reforms will the Department implement to ensure that CBP inspectors at our borders respond appropriately if similar situations occur in the future? Is the Department investigating the circumstances of this particular case? If yes, when will the investigation be concluded? If not, why not? We were fortunate that Mr. Despes was apprehended before he could cause further harm and that he was not a terrorist intent on attacking our country. We look forward to the Department’s responses to our questions. If you have questions, please contact Mr. Mark Bayer in Rep. Markey’s office at 202-225-2836 or Mr. Bruce Fernandez in Rep. Lynch’s office at 202-225-8273 Sincerely, ______________________ ______________________ Edward J. Markey Stephen F. Lynch cc. The Honorable Robert Bonner Commissioner Customs and Border Protection Department of Homeland Security [1]"Congressman questioning a 'bizarre' border crossing”, The Boston Globe, June 9, 2005. [2] Title 18 U.S.C. 1001: "[W]hoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully - (1) falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; (2) makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or (3) makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.” Title 18 U.S.C. 912: "Whoever falsely assumes or pretends to be an officer or employee acting under the authority of the United States or any department, agency or officer thereof, and acts as such, or in such pretended character demands or obtains any money, paper, document, or thing of value, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both.” -30-
06.10.2005	Senator John Kerry along with Senator Edward Kennedy, Congressmen Barney Frank, John Tierney, William Delahunt, Jim McGovern, and Stephen Lynch joined together today to ask Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez to expedite a disaster analysis of Essex, Plymouth, Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes and Nantucket counties. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> The Commerce Department can declare Massachusetts a disaster area under the Magnuson-Stevens Act so that fishermen may be eligible for direct assistance when funds become available. John Kerry said, "The shell fishing industry in Massachusetts has taken a major blow due to this natural catastrophe, the worst red tide plume to hit Massachusetts in three decades. Disaster declarations in Massachusetts coastal fishing communities will help families get on the road to recovery. We cannot afford any bureaucratic red tape or delays. " Senator Kennedy said, "It is critical that Secretary Gutierrez declare a commercial fishing failure so that relief can be administered to our fisherman and their families as quickly as possible. Massachusetts relies heavily upon the fishing industry and the economic vitality that it creates. We must do all we can to address this crisis." Congressman Frank said "It is critical that the Federal Government act quickly to employ any and all measures at its disposal to help alleviate the disastrous economic effects this Red Tide outbreak is having on the fishing industry, and I am pleased to join in this letter to help accomplish that goal." Congressman Tierney said, "During this difficult time for Massachusetts fisherman, I am pleased to be joining my colleagues in an effort to garner direct federal assistance so that we can provide urgent financial relief to fisherman, their families and the local economy affected by the closure of shellfish beds impacted by red tide." "This year's red tide outbreak is a tremendous problem," Representative McGovern said. "It's vital to our economic well-being that the federal government provide the necessary assistance. I hope the Commerce Department will treat this issue with the attention it deserves." Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said, "Fishermen, businesses and families are all affected by this devastating red tide outbreak, and we have a responsibility to help them weather this difficult economic time. The entire Massachusetts Delegation is committed to ensuring that Washington understands the magnitude of this situation and its impact on the entire region, and that emergency assistance funds are delivered as soon as possible." Attached is the letter sent to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez: June 9, 2005 The Honorable Carlos M. Gutierrez Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 14th & Constitution Ave. NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing on behalf of the thousands of Massachusetts fishermen and their families in Essex, Plymouth, Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes and Nantucket counties who have been affected by the closure of shellfish beds due to red tide. As you know, Massachusetts waters are being plagues by the worst outbreak of red tide since 1972, which has resulted in the closure of most shellfish areas in the state. And while the length of the closure is unknown, it is expected some areas will remain closed for up to another month. The situation is so extreme that we are writing to urge you to declare a commercial fishery failure, as provided for under Section 312 (a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, to provide financial relief for the individuals, businesses and communities affected by the fishery resource disaster. The Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries estimates the closures are currently affecting about 1,700 full- and part-time commercial fishermen. Shellfish aquaculture occurs in 11 affected towns involving 241 growers at 289 sites. In addition, the quahog- dredge fishery, which involves 8 boats (16 people), and the surf clam fishery, which has 11 boats (22 people), are also affected. Altogether, the total landed value for all commercial shellfishing and shellfish aquaculture in the currently closed areas is $600,000 per week. This represents a potential loss of $2,700,000 weekly to the local economy resulting from the red tide. Such economic losses would be catastrophic for fishing families and for fishing dependent communities. The situation for others, including processors, port communities and related on-shore businesses will be disastrous. We urge you to instruct NOAA Fisheries to expedite preparation of a disaster analysis and your immediate disaster declaration. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Ted Kennedy Stephen Lynch John F. Tierney William Delahunt Barney Frank Jim McGovern -30-
06.08.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch sent the following letter to Hector V. Barreto, Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration to request support for Massachusetts fishermen affected by the red tide outbreak. The Honorable Hector V. Barreto Administrator <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />U.S. Small Business Administration 409 Third Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20416 <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Dear Administrator Barreto: As you may be aware, Massachusetts waters are being plagued by the worst outbreak of red tide since 1972. For this reason, I am writing you in support of the request of my House and Senate colleagues from Massachusetts to urge you to issue an economic injury disaster declaration for Essex, Plymouth, Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes and Nantucket counties in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on behalf of the thousands of fishermen and their families who have been affected by the closure of shellfish beds due to red tide. This outbreak has resulted in the closure of most shellfish areas in Massachusetts, devastating approximately 1,700 shellfish fishermen. The start of the summer tourist season depends on for the City of Boston, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the entire New England region depends on the economic gains associated with this period. The reverberations from the natural disaster will be felt by our fishermen provide shellfish as well as to the businesses on our coast that cater to tourists seeking local seafood during the summer months. The levels of toxicity from this red tide outbreak have been escalating in recent weeks. Local officials currently estimate that many shellfish beds will not be allowed to open for most of the summer months. The fishermen and other small businesses affected by the red tide disaster are an important part of the economic and cultural history of Massachusetts’ coastal communities. Emergency assistance for the shellfish industry is important for the continued growth of the Massachusetts economy. It is my hope that you will make the requested declaration immediately so our fishermen are eligible to apply for low-interest economic injury disaster loans from the SBA to help their businesses survive the red tide disaster. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, STEPHEN F. LYNCH Member of Congress -30-
06.07.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced the opening of a new high school student art exhibit at the South Shore Plaza in Braintree. The exhibit includes paintings, etchings and drawings by students from high schools across the Ninth Congressional District that were submitted as entries in the 24th Annual Congressional Art Competition. The annual national art competition, called "An Artistic Discovery,” is open to all high school students across the nation. One piece of artwork from each Congressional District is selected to be hung in the U.S. Capitol in Washington for the year. This year, dozens of entries came in from across Congressman Lynch’s district, and the judges, a group of leading local artists, had a difficult job in selecting the 2005 winner. In the end, they selected a pencil drawing by Brockton High School senior Alexandre Daluz as the Ninth Congressional District winner. Alexandre’s artwork was flown to Washington, D.C. to be hung in the U.S. Capitol. All of the other entries will be displayed at the South Shore Plaza for the month of June. Congressman Lynch said, "It’s obvious from this competition that we have some gifted young artists in the Ninth Congressional District. No doubt, their ability is due in large part to the support of their parents and their extraordinary art teachers. I hope that this public display of their artwork will encourage other students from across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” WHAT: Ninth Congressional District Student Art Exhibit WHEN: Tuesday, June 7-Tuesday, June 28, 2005 TIME: Monday-Saturday 10:00 AM – 10:00 PM Sunday 11:00 AM – 7:00 PM WHERE: South Shore Plaza 250 Granite Street (Route 37), Braintree -30-
06.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Joshua Dixon of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Porter Street in Whitman for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Josh, the son of John and Mary Beth Dixon, is a student at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School and Captain of the Varsity Wrestling Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Josh came highly regarded by the Army and by his teachers and coaches at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Whitman community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Josh Dixon was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Josh is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Mary Beth Dixon, and his grandparents, John and Lorraine Dixon and Daniel and Nancy Campbell. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Dixon family, as well as the town of Whitman and the entire state have much to be proud of in Josh. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Christopher Curran of Old Farm Road in Norwood for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Chris, the son of Christopher and Karen Curran, is a student at St. Sebastian’s School and Vice President of the Student Body.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Chris came highly regarded by the Army and by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Norwood community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Christopher Curran was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Chris is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Christopher and Karen Curran, and his grandparents, Joe and Betty Curran and Gino and Joan Mastrobattista. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Curran family, as well as the town of Norwood and the entire state have much to be proud of in Chris. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Lauren Baldwin of Casey Street in Canton for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Lauren, the daughter of Charles and Helen Baldwin, is an honor roll student at Canton High School and Sports Editor of her school newspaper.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Lauren came highly regarded by the Army and by her teachers and coaches in Canton. She is exceptional, and we expect great things from her. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Canton community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Lauren Baldwin was selected as someone whose character and love of her country put her at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Lauren is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Charles and Helen Baldwin, and her grandmother, Gloria Baldwin. I know that she will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Baldwin family, as well as the town of Canton and the entire state, have much to be proud of in Lauren. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Andrew Beltis of Youngs Road in Dedham for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Andrew, the son of Richard and Joan Beltis, is a student at Dedham High School and comes from a family with a proud tradition of service to the U.S. Navy. His father Richard served on the USS Ray and the USS Kamehameha during the Vietnam War and his grandfather, Jack Beltis, was awarded the Liberation Medal of the Philippines for his Naval service during World War II.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy, the Military Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Andrew came highly regarded by the Navy and by his teachers and coaches in Dedham. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. I know how it effects the entire family, and the Dedham community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Andrew Beltis was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Andrew is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Richard and Joan Beltis, and his grandparents, Clo Beltis and Jim and Jeanne Thebado. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the United States Armed Forces. The Beltis family, as well as the town of Dedham and the entire state have much to be proud of in Andrew. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
06.01.2005	Congressman Lynch announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security awarded a Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) Grant of $12,500 to the Norwood Fire Department. The federal grant will be used to fund the purchase of a new thermal imaging camera, which will enable Norwood firefighters to quickly scan a building to determine which rooms are on fire and locate people inside. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security will also pay for Lt. Paul Butters from the Norwood Fire Department to participate in training on the new equipment. Norwood was one of only 214 cities and towns nationwide and 9 cities and towns in Massachusetts to receive the homeland security grant. This is first round of grants to be awarded by CEDAP. Congressman Lynch said, "Chief Michael Howard and the Norwood Fire Department are doing an outstanding job at protecting the safety and security of the people of Norwood. This new camera will provide them with detailed information that will improve their response times and firefighter safety. Most importantly, the equipment will enable firefighters to quickly locate people, especially children, who may be trapped in a fire, when seconds might mean the difference between life and death. I'm thankful that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the hard work and commitment of Chief Howard and his Department, and stepped up to provide this state-of-the-art equipment.” The Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) provides local police and fire departments with new equipment for communications interoperability, information sharing, and chemical detection, sensor devices, and personal protective equipment. $50,000,000 in funding for CEDAP was included in the FY 2005 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which was supported by Congressman Lynch. Lt. Paul Butters, a 28 year veteran of the Norwood Fire Department, said, "This equipment will give our firefighters an increased sense of security every time we respond to an alarm, and it will make us more effective at fulfilling our mission. We appreciate Congressman Lynch’s continued support of our department.” The Norwood Fire Department also received a Fire Grant of $93,831 from the Department of Homeland Security in 2002 to purchase new equipment and fund firefighter training. -30-
05.25.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated James RePass, Jr. of Gates Street in South Boston for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. James, the son of James RePass, Sr. and Rosemary Lyons, is a student at Boston Latin High School and a six-year member of the student council.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "James came highly regarded by the Navy and by his teachers at Boston Latin. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the South Boston community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, James RePass, Jr. was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. James is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Rosemary, and his grandmother, Peggy RePass. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The RePass and Lyons families, as well as the neighborhood of South Boston and the entire state have much to be proud of in James. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
05.25.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Michael Flaherty of Garfield Avenue in Norwood for an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Michael, the son of John and Ellen Flaherty, is a student at St. Sebastian’s High School and a six-time recipient of service recognition awards at Caritas Norwood Hospital.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Michael came highly regarded by the Navy and by his teachers and coaches at St. Sebastian’s. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Norwood community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Michael Flaherty was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Michael is a wonderful reflection of his parents, John and Ellen Flaherty, and his grandparents, Adaline Morgan and Rita Crimmins. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Flaherty family, as well as the town of Norwood and the entire state have much to be proud of in Michael. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
05.25.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Bryan Ballard of Beal Avenue in Whitman for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Bryan, the son of James and Gwen Ballard, is a student at Whitman-Hanson High School and Captain of the Varsity Soccer Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Bryan came highly regarded by the Air Force and by his teachers and coaches in Whitman. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Whitman community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Bryan Ballard was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Bryan is a wonderful reflection of his parents, James and Gwen Ballard, and his grandparents, Dean Vaughn and Miriam Ballard. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Ballard family, as well as the town of Whitman and the entire state have much to be proud of in Bryan. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
05.18.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that Matthew Phelan of Allen Road in North Easton was accepted for admission to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis and will become a member of the Class of 2009. Congressman Lynch nominated Matt for an appointment to the Academy earlier this year. Matt, the son of Joseph and Carolyn Phelan, is an honor student at Oliver Ames High School and competed as a gymnast in the Junior Olympics the past four years.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Matt came highly regarded by the Navy and by his teachers and coaches in Easton. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family and the Easton community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Matt Phelan was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Matt is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Joseph and Carolyn Phelan, and his grandparents, Edward and Mary Phelan and Betty Rodenbush. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Phelan family, as well as the town of Easton and the entire state have much to be proud of in Matt. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
05.18.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that Joseph DeSantis of Hale Road in Walpole was accepted for admission to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, and will become a member of the Class of 2009. Congressman Lynch nominated Joseph for an appointment to the Academy earlier this year. Joseph, the son of Paul DeSantis and Debbie Steeves, is a student at Walpole High School and a member of the Varsity Cross Country, Track and Lacrosse Teams.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Joseph came highly regarded by the Merhcant Marines and by his teachers and coaches in Walpole. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family and the Walpole community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Joseph DeSantis was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Joseph is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Paul and Debbie, and his grandparents, Don and Kay DeSantis and Joe and Melanie Nahman. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The DeSantis and Steeves families, as well as the town of Walpole and the entire state have much to be proud of in Joseph. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
05.10.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today unveiled a report detailing the impact of President Bush’s Social Security plan on the families of the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Lynch requested the study from the House Committee on Government Reform. Among the findings: All workers within the Ninth District who are younger than 55 and earn more than $20,000 would see a reduction in benefits. Of the 290,000 workers in the District, 75% would lose part of their benefits. More than 146,000 workers would lose 10% of their benefits. At least 67,000 would lose 20%. The average benefit cut for workers in the District between the ages of 35 and 55 would be $2,640 annually. That figure increases to $6,960 for workers under 35. In total, workers in the Ninth District stand to lose nearly $20 billion. Three quarters of those cuts would come from people earning between $30,000 and $90,000 per year.Congressman Lynch also noted that benefits may be cut for widows and surviving children. Although the new proposal has not yet detailed the change in benefits, more than 18,200 surviving spouses and children in the Ninth District currently receive benefits. "Social Security is not in crisis,” said Congressman Lynch, citing the Congressional Budget Office’s recent finding that Social Security can continue paying full benefits until 2052. "There is no need to make rash decisions that will obviously place a financial burden on millions of people. We have the time and opportunity to make meaningful reforms that will protect and strengthen Social Security for generations to come. I’m hopeful that common sense will prevail and Democrats and Republicans will come together to provide for the long-term security of American retirees.” -30-
05.09.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today met with Clara Bohan of East Walpole and her family in his District Office in Boston. Clara, a junior at East Walpole High School, was the 2004 winner of "An Artistic Discovery,” the 23rd Annual Congressional Art Competition. Students from across the Ninth Congressional District submitted artwork to last year’s Congressional Competition, and the winner was selected by a panel of local artists. Clara’s piece, "Hometown Hats,” was sent to Washington and has been hanging for the last year in the U.S. Capitol Building together with the winners from across the nation. Congressman Lynch said, "Clara is a truly gifted young artist, and she is a wonderful reflection of her parents, Michele and Thomas Bohan, and she displays favorably the influence of her art teacher, Diana Hampe. I hope that her success will encourage other students from East Walpole and across the Ninth District to continue their pursuit of the arts.” -30-
05.05.2005	On Monday, May 9th, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch will host an open public forum on the Social Security Reform proposals under consideration by Congress, and what they will mean for the families of the Ninth Congressional District. Congressman Lynch will discuss how the Bush Administration’s reform proposal could diminish future benefits and jeopardize the future of Social Security, and then he will open the forum up to questions from the audience. WHO: Congressman Stephen F. Lynch Members of the Public WHAT: Open Forum on the Future of Social Security WHEN: Monday, May 9, 2005 TIME: 5:30 PM Doors Open 6:00 PM Speaking Program Begins WHERE: Curry College Alumni Recreation Center (ARC) 1071 Blue Hill Avenue, Milton Refreshments will be provided. -30-
05.04.2005	I thank the gentleman for yielding and taking the time on such an important and timely subject. I rise in opposition to this so-called Central American Free Trade Agreement. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Introduction I am told the clinical definition of insanity is "doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.” The <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States continues to enter into similar so-called "free trade” agreements with countries and regions of the world that give carte blanche to corporate America to outsource jobs to other parts of the world. Now given the experience so far, you would think that when you find yourself in a hole, you might stop digging. Not only does this ship American jobs overseas, but it creates a "race-to-the-bottom” mentality and further burdens our current trade deficit. In 2004, the U.S. trade deficit soared to a record of $617 billion, a 25% increase over 2003’s record deficit and more than 5% of our nation’s GDP. The Bush Administration and the corporations who profit when American jobs get shipped overseas argue that this trade deal will benefit U.S. businesses and workers while helping member countries prosper. The fact is: this couldn’t be further from the truth. Tonight, I’d like to focus my remarks on exposing the real impact that the Central American Free Trade Agreement will have on our workers, Central American workers, and our burgeoning trade deficit. Let’s first take a quick look at the North American Free Trade Agreement – NAFTA – and its impact on our workers, our neighbors’ workers, and the trade deficit. Those who advocate Congress’ passage of the Central American Free Trade Agreement, CAFTA, often point to NAFTA and it status as a "success story” in their arguments. I think it is important to take a close look at NAFTA in order to understand both the economic and policy implications of this model as we consider the Central American Free Trade Agreement. During the NAFTA debate, proponents of the trade measure promised that its adoption would lead to 170,000 new jobs in the United States; instead our country has lost 3 million manufacturing jobs since the adoption of NAFTA in 1994, 900,000 of which come as a direct result of NAFTA. These jobs were good, high-wage, benefits-paying manufacturing jobs that have been replaced by service sector positions that typically pay 23 to 77 percent less, with few or no benefits. While some proponents expect the Central American Free Trade Agreement to turn out differently than did NAFTA, the six Central American countries possess an even larger pool of cheap labor than Canada and Mexico. What’s more, since the implementation of NAFTA, the trade deficit with Mexico has surged from $9.1 billion in 1993 to $110.8 billion last year. Additionally, NAFTA did nothing to improve the lives of average Mexicans and this failure to improve the quality of life for these workers has generated mass opposition and widespread distrust on our southern border. Amnesty International continues to report that extrajudicial torture and murders continue. This is not democracy, this is not what Mexicans signed up for. Meanwhile, here at home, this comparative advantage of subsistence wages and a complete lack of labor and environmental protections have led to the shift of low-wage, labor-intensive work from the U.S. to Mexico. Pursuing unrestricted free trade agreements with lesser-developed countries along the NAFTA model will continue to accelerate this "race to the bottom,” where jobs go to the countries with the weakest labor and environmental protections. That’s bad for American workers and exploitative of foreign workers. We hear this Administration talk about exporting democracy. Well, this is probably the most powerful opportunity. You don’t export democracy through the Defense Department – you do it through trade agreements. Are we liberating Iraq so we can move American jobs there and exploit them for wages of 10 cents an hour, in miserable conditions, 12 hours a day, with no environmental standards. As for the expected boon to the Mexican economy, we have seen none of these gains and instead we have seen NAFTA’s detrimental impact on the Mexican worker. Average real wages in Mexican manufacturing are lower than they were ten years ago. And as companies look to cut costs even further, we see factories being shipped from Mexico to China, India, and Indonesia, always in search of the lowest cost best exemplified by the most exploited worker. Now on NAFTA’s coattails rides CAFTA, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, and the American people are expected to buy the same bill of goods at even higher costs. Proponents of CAFTA insist that the economic gains from this trade agreement for American workers and business will be a windfall. But remember what we’re trading FOR – the combined purchasing power of Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and the Dominican Republic is almost identical to the purchasing power of New Haven, Connecticut. The U.S. economy, with a $10 trillion GDP in 2002, is 170 times larger than the economies of these six nations, at about $62 billion combined. Quite simply, the Central American Free Trade Agreement is not about robust markets for the export of American goods. It is about access to cheap labor. It is about shipping American jobs overseas, so they can sell stuff back to the people who still have jobs… The American Worker As an ironworker who worked at the General Motors plant in Framingham, Massachusetts – which closed shortly before several plants were relocated to Mexico – and at the General Dynamics ship yard in Quincy, Mass – another victim of foreign competition – I know the impact of "offshoring.” I know what it means to families and I know what it means to towns and cities when those jobs disappear. Over the last twenty years, our economy has hemorrhaged jobs in the manufacturing sector; since 2001, 3.3 million jobs were lost. Yet these workers were told not to worry. They were told they would be retrained for another job; they needed more education in our new high-tech economy. How can they not worry, though, when unemployment is at a 10-year high at 5.4%, with 80 million Americans out of a job? Personal bankruptcies in Massachusetts alone rose 17.5% between 2000 and 2003. How can we tell these folks not to worry when the Administration is signing even more trade agreements to ship away their jobs? The never-ending pursuit for the lowest cost labor is spreading and CAFTA will only cement this cycle. We need to break this cycle now. There’s a pretty good book out called "The World is Flat,” by Tom Friedman. I suggest my colleagues read it. Mr. Friedman writes about the speed at which our jobs are disappearing and the volume of wealth being taken from working class Americans. The biggest share of U.S. exports to the 6 CAFTA countries is not the traditional, job-creating kind. These products are not consumed in the purchasing nations. What happens is that fabric is sent to Central America, stitched into final apparel and home furnishings, and then shipped back to the United States. Rather than serving new foreign markets, these so-called "exports” serve our domestic market, which was once supplied by U.S.-based factories. The biggest difference here is that American workers are cut out of the picture. More than 30% of U.S. exports to the 6 CAFTA countries consists of these types of "round trip” exports that cause American jobs to be outsourced to those countries with lower labor standards. But this trade agreement is bad not only for American workers, but for those in Central America as well. The CAFTA Worker Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported Costa Rica’s resistance to the Central American Free Trade Agreement. Costa Rica, the oldest democracy in Central America and its most developed nation, is balking at ratifying this Central American Free Trade Agreement. Costa Rican President Abel Pacheco has said that he believes that the Central American Free Trade Agreement will negatively impact the nation’s poor. He has said he will not submit this trade agreement to the Costa Rican Parliament until next February. The reluctance of Costa Rica has surprised the White House and undermines one of its chief arguments for the pact: that CAFTA represents an urgently sought benefit for the impoverished region. Costa Rica’s ambivalence and the long delay before it votes on the trade agreement indicates its reluctance to endorse this supposed "free trade” agreement. Protests in Guatemala numbering in the thousands have also been an indicator that many Central Americans do not see the Central American Free Trade Agreement as beneficial for their nations and their livelihoods. As you may know, May Day marches in Guatemala, Costa Rica, Honduras, and El Salvador have featured myriad anti-CAFTA signs and slogans. As President Pacheco rightly emphasized: more trade does not necessarily mean less poverty. Proponents of the Central American Free Trade Agreement have conveniently ignored this fundamental issue – the effect of trade on incomes in Central America and how to alleviate the adverse consequences of trade liberalization on the poor. This "Washington Consensus,” that opening up markets will help alleviate poverty, is just plain wrong. One reason is that labor in developing countries is not nearly as mobile as trade theorists assume. In Central America, for trade to benefit unskilled workers – farm laborers, for example – they need to be able to move out of jobs that will face greater competition from efficient U.S. producers thanks to CAFTA – such as growing corn – and into jobs in exporting industries that are likely to be selling more products to the American market. Unfortunately, though, job mobility is not a given. In both Mexico and Colombia, for example, trade liberalization has increased poverty among workers in some industries and locales precisely because labor cannot automatically move from one industry to another. Trade reform has also been linked to increasing income disparity, as skilled workers have captured more benefits from globalization than their unskilled counterparts. Simply said: CAFTA will make the rich richer and the poor poorer. Take Mexico as a perfect example. Since NAFTA, Mexico has lost 1.9 million jobs and most Mexicans’ real wages have fallen. The United States, with its unrivaled economic clout, is in a unique position to empower workers around the world while promoting economic prosperity here at home. Unfortunately, the Central American Free Trade Agreement does the exact opposite. If we pass CAFTA, we are rewarding Central American countries for their poor labor rights records, we are harming farmers in Central America by opening up their tiny markets to our own, and we are cementing the cycle of exploitation. Recently released reports prepared for the Labor Department, and confirmed in reports by Human Rights Watch and the National Labor Committee, provide overwhelming evidence that CAFTA does almost nothing to protect workers. These Labor Department reports have been suppressed because they demonstrate Central American workers’ rights restrictions. Thanks to my colleague, Representative Sander Levin, DOL has released these reports. In these reports, DOL found that the rights to collective bargaining and nondiscrimination in the workplace were negligible. In Nicaragua, for example, employees can be fired for organizing provided that they are paid twice the normal severance amount. It is bad enough that these countries do not meet the International Labor Organization’s basic standards, but what’s worse is that CAFTA is silent on the need to improve working conditions in Central American countries. Instead of trade policy that is beneficial to American businesses and workers as well as our trade partners, we have flawed trade policies that hurt all parties. Free trade should not mean free labor. Likewise, free trade does not, as evidenced in CAFTA, mean fair trade. The Central American Free Trade Agreement outlines only one labor and environmental provision: that countries enforce their own labor and environmental laws. The labor laws of the 6 CAFTA nations are a joke. They have been repeatedly criticized by the UN’s International Labor Organization (ILO) and our own State Department. Violations of core labor standards cannot be taken to dispute resolution and the commitment to enforce domestic labor laws – which are pathetic to begin with – is subject to remedies weaker than those available for commercial disputes. In a purely technical sense, this violates the negotiating principal of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) that equivalent remedies exist for all parts of an agreement. Another negative effect of the Central American Free Trade Agreement for the Central American laborer will be felt in the agricultural sector of these countries. Simply put, CAFTA will destroy Central American farmers. That is why we have seen these mass protests. 1.5 million people in Central America depend on rice production. Under CAFTA, while Central American countries will be forced to eliminate import tariffs on rice, the U.S. will continue to maintain subsidies for our domestic rice producers. Central American rice producers will be destroyed by this flood of cheap rice. The final negative impact of the Central American Free Trade Agreement I’d like to discuss is what it will do to our trade deficit. Trade Deficit The U.S. trade deficit – which indicates that our imports exceed our exports – has increased by $200 billion per year under this Administration. In 2003, the trade deficit reached $497 billion and U.S. foreign debt has increased dramatically from $1.6 trillion in 2000 to $2.7 trillion at the end of 2003. Over the past 4 years, a ten-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion has become a ten-year deficit of over $3 trillion. The U.S. went from a $5 billion trade surplus with Mexico in 1992 to a $45 billion – let me repeat $45 BILLION – trade deficit in 2004. Our trade deficit with China has risen from $18 billion in 1992 to an astounding $161 billion in 2004. Now we’re working to do another American job export bill. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said yesterday that the Central American Free Trade Agreement will help the U.S. compete more successfully in the dynamic global economy. HOW? How will these nations be able to help the U.S. come out of its current trade deficit? CAFTA nations are not robust export markets – the average wage of a Nicaraguan worker is FIFTY CENTS an hour. Nicaraguan workers cannot afford to buy cars made in the U.S.; they can’t afford Folgers coffee or Tide laundry detergent. They cannot afford cuts of U.S. prime beef at $13 per pound. As I noted before, the six Central American nations of Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and the Dominican Republic have the purchasing power parity of New Haven, Connecticut. They will not add much to the U.S. economy, only take American jobs away. And make no mistake. That what this is all about. If companies were serious about creating robust markets for "Made in America” goods, they would be working to improve the wages and working conditions of these workers. It is only when these laborers can earn enough to buy U.S. goods that this kind of trade will be successful for all parties involved. If you consider that a typical Central American consumer earns only a small fraction of an average American worker’s wages, it becomes clear that CAFTA’S true goal is not to increase U.S. exports. About half the workers in this region work for less than 2 dollars a day, placing them below the global poverty level. All this agreement does is exploit lowest-wage labor to the detriment of the American worker. The Central American Free Trade Agreement does not benefit you. Let’s be honest: CAFTA benefits companies that leave the U.S. or outsource U.S. jobs to Central America. These companies will not only exploit cheap labor with minimal protections, but can import their products back to the U.S. under favorable terms. Policy Recommendations There are several simple steps we can take to mitigate the effects that existing trade agreements have on our workers and future trade agreements have on global labor movements. First, instead of subsidizing large corporations that outsource American jobs, with tax breaks for foreign production and government contracts for companies that ship jobs overseas, we should create financial incentives for companies to keep jobs in the U.S. Secondly, we must act now to deal with our increasing national deficit. The U.S. trade deficit has jumped from $70 billion in 1993 to $618 billion in 2004. There should be no new trade agreements until this matter is addressed. Finally, in existing trade agreements, we need to demand and strictly enforce all provisions protecting labor, human rights, and environmental standards. All future trade agreements should include these basic rights and all countries should be held accountable to internationally-recognized standards. We need a trade policy that supports domestic manufacturers, while promoting labor standards overseas. CAFTA, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, fails to do either. There’s a stark contrast between Iraq and CAFTA policies. In recent months and weeks, I’ve heard a lot of inspiring talk coming out of the White House – talk of exporting democracy to Iraq, empowering people, raising their standard of living – liberating the Iraqi people. Then I see this Central American Free Trade Agreement and what it does. It endorses oppression, it exploits workers, it turns a blind eye to repressive regimes, it reinforces the complete lack of hope that these people have – it doesn’t lift a finger to help them. Once Iraq is stabilized, is this the way we’ll treat their workers? Is that why we pumped $200 billion into that country? Is that what "liberation” means? Is that what our sons and daughters are fighting and dying for? -30-
04.22.2005	Thank you Chairman Davis, I'd like to begin by thanking you and our ranking member Henry Waxman for your willingness to convene this hearing and to come here to <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Boston. This is the Committee on Government Reform, and, as the name suggests, it is the continuing problems that we have encountered on the Central Artery/Tunnel Project that bring us here today. Very simply, we must ask the tough questions, and use the powers that are afforded to this Committee and to the Congress to determine where the shared responsibilities may lie in completing and maintaining this project in a manner that meets the high standards that taxpayers and toll payers may reasonably expect. In a national regulatory context, we also seek to ensure that the systemic problems that resulted in cost overruns are not allowed to happen again. There is frequent criticism of the partisan bickering that sometimes hampers the work of Congress, and in fairness, some of that is deserved. However, I must say that my experience on this Committee under the leadership of Chairman Tom Davis, the gentleman from Virginia, has been a shining exception to that rule. In my brief tenure on the Committee, we've conducted investigations of the Boston Office of the FBI's involvement with organized crime, and we continue to investigate the Iraqi Oil for Food Scandal, contract irregularities in the Middle East involving Halliburton, and most recently, steroid abuse in Major League Baseball and professional sports. And through it all, I have seen that Chairman Davis has personally gone to great lengths to maintain a level of fairness and to encourage the work of all Members, regardless of their political affiliation. So again, my thanks. Turning to the difficulties on the Central Artery Project, as someone who literally grew up in the construction industry, I've taken a natural interest in this project. Let me state at the outset, that I don't for a moment discount the colossal scale of this undertaking, the largest and most complex construction project in the history of the United States. Also, I fully and personally appreciate the pride and skill of the men and women of the Building Trades who've built it. I have enormous pride in them; no one is questioning their work. And I am mindful, most of all, of the memories of the workers who gave their lives on this project. Men like John Hegarty of the Savin Hill section of Dorchester (a proud member of Pile Drivers Local 56) who left a wife and young children. Men like Fook Choi Kan...a Union carpenter from Springfield and Lonnie Avant from Roxbury. Men like my young friend Frank Shea, Jr. of South Boston, an accomplished boxer and a Golden Gloves champion who lived by the simple truth that there was honor in hard work. They were reflections of what was and is best about America. There were common threads that ran through each of their lives ..they like their parents, Irish, Asian, African American, by their labor they found dignity in their work. That has been an enduring truth in this country…it is also directly related to Americans’ sense of shared sacrifice, our willingness as citizens, to support projects like this that probably benefit future generations more so than it benefits ourselves today. Not simply to reduce the length of a traffic jam or cut our morning commute time, but because we hope that our work can become our legacy, to improve the lives of future generations. As noble as that may sound, it takes more than good intentions to build that legacy. The best example of how quickly good intentions can succumb to failure is the story of greed following national need during World War II. The people of this nation were bound to a unified cause by the attack on Pearl Harbor, and they rallied to superhuman acts of bravery. Yet, as the country grappled with the logistics of the war effort, terrible examples of waste, mismanagement and abuse in our defense contracting threatened that effort. Until Senator Harry Truman and the members of the Truman Commission investigated the causes of those deficiencies and got the war effort back on track. The risk then was not just in wasted tax dollars, but in lost lives, shoddy materials and missed deadlines in delivery. Senator Truman got in his car and went around the country, visiting installations and talking with the people working for defense contractors. He knew that the key to reform would be found where the work was happening. And now we are here today, in the spirit of that earlier effort, and it is my hope with at least a small fraction of the clarity and the sense of mission Harry Truman brought to his work. Why is this as important as that earlier investigation? Our transportation system is the key to our economic stability. We have just approved in the House a brand new $285 billion dollar transportation bill. This nation will continue to undertake huge public works projects. But whether large or small, the taxpayer deserves value for each dollar spent. This project was and is a courageous endeavor of breathtaking ambition. An effort that was equal to the people who built it. What we're trying to do here is preserve the legacy of this monumental effort and bring it back into respectability. And that can only happen when all parties are held accountable, sharing that responsibility. I have followed the chronology of this project from its inception to today. I must say that through all its twists and turns and conflicts and mediations, I have found no example where the interests of the taxpayers and of ordinary citizens have prevailed. Well, we're hoping that this hearing can change that. If we reexamine how we got to this place and take note of the lessons learned from our experience, if we work thoughtfully and in good faith to find a way to ensure that the public is a partner in this effort, we can restore dignity to this project and we can protect the people’s interests from this day forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. -30-
04.15.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch has announced the opening of "An Artistic Discovery,” the 24th Annual Congressional Art Competition. This competition is open to all high school students who reside in the 9th Congressional District. The winner will have their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a full year. Additionally, there will be a reception in Washington, D.C. for all art competition winners and their families to celebrate the opening of the exhibit. To highlight the talent of art students in the 9th Congressional District, all of the artwork will be displayed this summer at the South Shore Plaza. The Annual Congressional Art Competition is open for submittals beginning immediately, and all entries must be received by May 20, 2005. Entries should be sent to Congressman Lynch’s Boston District Office and put to the attention of Sarah Bonaiuto. Please feel free to contact Congressman Lynch’s office at (617) 428-2000 or refer to his website, https://www.house.gov/lynch/, for more information on the competition. "I hope that every high school student with a passion for art takes part in this exciting competition. Last year, we had dozens of outstanding entries, and I was proud to have the artwork of Clara Bohan of East Walpole representing our District in Washington. I look forward to viewing all of this year’s submissions and displaying one of them in the U.S. Capitol this summer.” -30-
04.13.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Collin Hackett of Ledgeview Drive in Norwood for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Collin, the son of Joseph and Gail Hackett, is a student at Norwood High School and the Captain of the Varsity Ice Hockey Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Collin came highly regarded by the Air Force and by his teachers and coaches in Norwood. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Norwood community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Collin Hackett was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Collin is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Joseph and Gail Hackett, and his grandparents, Paul Hackett and Mary Cammarata and Robert and Alice McCabe. Both of Collin’s grandfathers served our nation proudly in World War II, and I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Hackett family, as well as the town of Norwood and the entire state have much to be proud of in Collin. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
04.11.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Michael Fleming of Stevens Drive in Holbrook for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Michael, the son of Michael and Elaine Fleming, is an honor student at Archbishop Williams High School and the Captain of the Varsity Hockey Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Michael came highly regarded by the Army and by his teachers and coaches at Archbishop Williams. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Holbrook community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Michael Fleming was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Michael is a wonderful reflection of his parents Michael and Elaine Fleming, and I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Fleming family, as well as the town of Holbrook and the entire state have much to be proud of in Michael. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
04.07.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Jared Consolo of Birch Bark Drive in Hanson for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Jared, the son of William and Laurie Consolo, is a student at Whitman-Hanson Regional High School and the Captain of the Varsity Cross Country Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Jared came highly regarded by the Air Force and by his teachers and coaches in Hanson. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Hanson community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Jared Consolo was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Jared is a wonderful reflection of his parents, William and Laurie Consolo, and his grandparents, Frank and Virginia Consolo and Jean Fay. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Consolo family, as well as the town of Hanson and the entire state have much to be proud of in Jared. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
04.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Alexander Bowling of Fieldstone Drive in Medfield for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Alex, the son of Kathy and Jerry Bowling, is an honor student at Medfield High School and the Captain of the Varsity Cross Country Team.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Alex came highly regarded by the Army and by his teachers and coaches in Medfield. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Medfield community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Alex Bowling was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Alex is a wonderful reflection of his parents, Kathy and Jerry Bowling, and his grandparents, Thomas and Barbara Connolly and Logan and Cleo Bowling. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Bowling family, as well as the town of Medfield and the entire state have much to be proud of in Alex. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
04.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Stewart MacArthur of Laurel Street in Bridgewater for an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Stewart, the son of Robert and Camille MacArthur, is an honor student at Bridgewater-Raynham Regional High School and a member of the National Honor Society.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Service Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Stewart came highly regarded by the Army and by his teachers and coaches at Bridgewater-Raynham. He is exceptional, and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Iraq and spending some time in Baghdad and Tikrit with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Bridgewater community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. Congressman Lynch and his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs, Bob Fowkes, examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation. After the extensive review process, Stewart MacArthur was selected as someone whose character and love of his country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Stewart is a wonderful reflection of his parents Robert and Camille MacArthur. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The MacArthur family, as well as the town of Bridgewater and the entire state have much to be proud of in Stewart. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000.} -30-
03.24.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the full U.S. House of Representatives has approved $1 million in new federal funding to alleviate the parking problems in East Milton Square, as well as $1.5 million in funding to reduce congestion along Route 28 on the Milton-Boston City Line. The funding is included in this year’s reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), legislation that identifies the transportation priorities for the United States for the next six years. The federal funding package is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by President Bush later this year. "At long last, the federal highway bill is moving forward, and that’s good news for the families and businesses of Milton,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said of the $1 million earmark for East Milton Square. "Once this funding is approved by the Senate and President Bush, the Town of Milton will have $2 million in federal dollars to begin construction on a design that will create more parking opportunities in East Milton Square.” The Route 28 Corridor Improvement Project is intended to reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality. The $1.5 million in federal funding will benefit tens of thousands of commuters and pedestrians by improving traffic signal operations, funding new pavement markings and signage, and reducing water pollution in the area. Earlier this year, Congressman Lynch asked each of the cities and towns in his district to identify projects that could be funded in part through the federal transportation bill. James Mullen, Charlie McCarthy and Marion McEttrick of the Milton Board of Selectmen, together with Representative Walter Timilty and Town Administrator David Colton, asked Lynch to help the town secure funding for these two transportation projects, and he approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Transportation Committee. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House last week. Lynch added, "For more than a year, this funding was trapped because the federal highway bill was held up. Now, those differences have been resolved, and I am working with Senators Kennedy and Kerry to ensure that this funding will be approved by the U.S. Senate and that it will be delivered to the people of Milton.” -30-
03.24.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the full U.S. House of Representatives has approved $3,000,000 for the renovation of the Old Northern Avenue Bridge in Boston. The funding was included in this year’s reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), legislation that identifies the transportation priorities for the United States for the next six years. The federal funding package is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by President Bush later this year. The Old Northern Avenue Bridge over the Fort Point Channel is a 636-foot long, four-span historic structure with a 279' x 80' through-truss swing span built in 1908. It is one of the oldest steel-framed operable swing bridges in the world. "This federal funding is the first step in ensuring that the Northern Avenue Bridge will always be a part of Boston’s historic landscape,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "It will allow us to rehabilitate the bridge, allow safe passage of watercraft beneath, and remain open to pedestrians. That’s a win for boaters, business owners, tourists and families in our city.” "I am pleased that the federal government has stepped up to restore this historic and vital bridge, which connects important parts of our city," Mayor Thomas M. Menino said. "I want to thank Congressman Lynch for his work in helping our city to secure this funding." Earlier this year, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Transportation Committee to formally request federal funding for the rehabilitation of the Northern Avenue Bridge. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House last week. Lynch added, "This new federal investment in this historic landmark will protect it for generations to come. I am working with Mayor Menino as well as Senators Kennedy and Kerry to ensure that this funding will be approved by the U.S. Senate, and that it will be delivered to the City of Boston.” -30-
03.24.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the full U.S. House of Representatives has approved $1.5 million for the replacement of Brockton Area Transit buses. The funding was included in this year’s reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), legislation that identifies the transportation priorities for the <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />United States for the next six years. The federal funding package is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by President Bush later this year. "In the last few years, federal dollars have helped to fuel a dramatic upgrade in transportation services for the people of Brockton and surrounding communtities," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "With the help of Senators Kennedy and Kerry and Congressman Moakley we were able to secure more than $10 million for the construction of the new Intermodal Centre and the replacement of BAT buses. And with this new funding, we are hoping to build on that success.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with Mayor Jack Yunits, Councilor Jim Harrington and Ray Ledoux, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Transportation Committee to formally request federal funding for the replacement of the aging buses. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House last week. Over the last two years, Congressman Lynch has secured a total of $5.5 million in federal funding for the replacement of BAT buses. All told, this funding will allow BAT to purchase 24 new buses for its fleet. These 24 buses are eligible for replacement funding because they have been in service for over 12 years. Additionally, 15 of these buses have logged more than 350,000 miles in service. The cost of replacing each coach is approximately $300,000, and BAT intends to complete this replacement program in phases over the next few years. Lynch added, "Nearly half the cities and towns in my District will benefit from these new buses. And we all know that it would never have been possible without the leadership of Mayor Yunits, Ray Ledoux of the Brockton Area Transit Authority and the entire Brockton delegation." Brockton Area Transit Authority has an annual operating budget of nearly $10.5 million and accommodates over 3.4 million passengers each year with its fixed-route and elderly/disabled transportation services. It serves the communities of Brockton, Abington, Avon, Easton, East Bridgewater, West Bridgewater, Randolph, Stoughton, and Whitman. -30-
03.21.2005	Today, the Justice Department announced an indictment against a Halliburton official and subcontractor for "major fraud against the United States” under Halliburton’s LOGCAP contract to provide support for the U.S. Army in Kuwait and Iraq. The indictment alleges that Jeff Mazon, a former manager at Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg, Brown, and Root, and Ali Hijazi, the managing partner of Halliburton subcontractor LaNouvelle General Trading and Contracting Company, billed U.S. taxpayers more than $5.5 million for work that should have cost only $680,000 - a markup of more than 800%. "Action to stop to overcharging by Halliburton is long overdue,” said Rep. Waxman. "Overcharging the taxpayer is reprehensible, yet it appears that it was widespread.” Earlier this week, Rep. Waxman released an audit by Defense Department auditors concluding that Halliburton overcharged by more than $100 million under the company’s contract to operate Iraq’s oil infrastructure. Today’s announcement by the Justice Department follows a series of reports by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Coalition Provisional Authority Inspector General’s office, and the Government Accountability Office detailing rampant overcharging by Halliburton. Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, a member of the Committee that has been investigating the kickback allegations, stated: "I think it’s a disgrace that it has taken over a year since I first asked for the names of these individuals. However, in light of these revelations, the Pentagon has to examine all the contracts and subcontracts overseen by this individual, all the business conducted by this subcontractor, and all of Halliburton’s billings related to both.” Both companies involved with the kickback allegations, Halliburton and LaNouvelle, have been implicated in other overcharging schemes. For example, previous testimony before the Committee revealed that LaNouvelle was charging $45 per case of soda and $100 per bag of laundry. Documents obtained by Committee staff show that LaNouvelle’s laundry subcontract was approved and personally signed by Jeff Mazon. The new information in the indictment also raises issues about the testimony of Halliburton officials before Congress. At a July 22, 2004, hearing held by the Government Reform Committee, Alfred Neffgren, a chief operations officer at KBR, was questioned about the authority and positions of the Halliburton employees being investigated. Rep. C.A. "Dutch” Ruppersberger, the Member of Congress who questioned Halliburton officials about the kickbacks and a former Maryland prosecutor, stated: "We have asked Halliburton officials repeatedly whether these employees played a managerial role, and they told us they did not.” When asked whether these Halliburton employees were managers, Mr. Neffgren testified, "No, they weren’t”; they were "administrative people.” Upon further questioning, he testified that they were "senior subcontract administrators.” According to the federal grand jury indictment, however, Jeff Mazon held the managerial position of Procurement, Materials and Property Manager. Mr. Neffgren also downplayed Mr. Mazon’s role in overseeing subcontracts, stating that there were "300 to 350” senior subcontract administrators in Iraq at the time. Other former Halliburton employees have informed Committee staff that there were far fewer managers with Mazon’s position in Iraq and Kuwait. -30-
03.14.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the full U.S. House of Representatives has approved $780,00 for the creation of a Walking Path along the Neponset River in Norwood. The funding was included in this year’s reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), legislation that identifies the transportation priorities for the United States for the next six years. The federal funding package is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by President Bush later this year. "This is good news for the families of Norwood,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "This federal funding will open up 90 acres of beautiful land to bicyclists, hikers, nature lovers and children. And it will provide increased access for recreational boaters to the Neponset River.” Earlier this year, Congressman Lynch asked each of the cities and towns in his district to identify projects that could be funded in part through the federal transportation bill. The Norwood Board of Selectmen asked Lynch to help the town secure funding for the Vanderbilt Avenue Walking Path, and he approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Transportation Committee. Congressman Lynch was notified this week that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, and it was overwhelmingly approved by the House of Representatives. Lynch added, "This federal investment in the Town of Norwood will create jobs and it will alleviate the burden on local taxpayers. I am working with Senators Kennedy and Kerry to ensure that this funding will be approved by the U.S. Senate, and that it will be delivered to the people of Norwood.” -30-
03.14.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today reintroduced the "Rail Transit Safety and Security Act of 2005,” legislation that would overhaul training for rail workers, expand safety and communications systems, and improve emergency preparedness of America’s rail networks and personnel. The new version of the legislation incorporates new developments in rail security technology. "Given the hard evidence around the world of devastating attacks on major rail systems in Moscow, Paris, Tokyo, and Madrid, and the recent discovery of terrorists’ interest in Grand Central Station, we cannot continue to ignore the potential for an attack here in the United States,” said Congressman Lynch, a member of the House Subcommittee on National Security, International Relations and Emerging Threats. "It is time to take prudent and reasonable steps toward preventing such attacks from occurring and also limit the extent of damage that such attacks might cause. If we want to make a real difference on rail security, our local and regional transit authorities need information, coordination, and most of all resources. This bill will authorize $4.5 Billion over five years to improve rail security nationwide. Those federal dollars will go directly to training and preparedness, communications equipment, tunnel and perimeter protection systems, surveillance equipment, and public awareness campaigns. Our local transit authorities can’t be expected to secure their railways on their own.” The Rail Transit Safety and Security Act of 2005 will:• Require the Under Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security to conduct a thorough vulnerability assessment of our rail systems, and provide recommendations for improvements, within 90 days.• Create 8 regional federal rail security managers, to serve as a point of contact, to share threat information, and to work with local officials to implement comprehensive security plans using rail security "best practices.”• Encourage rail employees to be partners in bringing forward safety and security concerns, by offering comprehensive whistleblower protections similar to those given to corporate whistleblowers under the bipartisan Sarbanes-Oxley Act.• Authorize $640 million for improvements to Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor tunnels, such as better lighting, communications equipment, fire safety, passenger egress, and ventilation• Authorize $2.5 billion for capital security assistance grants, to help fund tunnel and perimeter protection systems, explosives detection systems, surveillance and communications equipment, evacuation improvements, and emergency response equipment.• Authorize $1.35 billion for operational security assistance grants, to help fund training exercises, drills, public awareness campaigns, and canine patrols.• Authorize $50 million for the research and development of new rail security techniques and equipment. Lynch added, "Five times as many passengers travel by rail as travel by airplane, and yet we’ve spent 100 times more on aviation security than we have on rail security since September 11th. It's time to address the vulnerabilities of America’s railways. It’s been a year since the bombings in Madrid; we can’t wait any longer to act.” -30-
03.09.2005	Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Whitman has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $158,037, will be used to purchase new communications equipment and a vehicle exhaust extraction system and update training materials for firefighters. Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Tim Travers, advocated on behalf of Whitman’s application with the Director of the Office of Domestic Preparedness for the Department of Homeland Security in Washington, C. Suzanne Mencer. Whitman is the sixth community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2004. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs. The total of all FY 2004 awards will represent a $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. "Firefighters are on the front lines of protecting our communities. They risk their lives to keep our families safe and our homeland secure. This funding will go a long way in helping these brave men and women continue the extraordinary job they do for all those in their communities,” Senator Kennedy said of the funding. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Whitman. Chief Tim Travers put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we continue to work with our great Whitman Delegation at the State House, Senator Bob Creedon and Representative Kathy Teahan, to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” Nearly 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Whitman was one of just 230 fire departments nationwide, and nine in Massachusetts, to be selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Whitman’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Travers at the Fire Department and Chief Schnyer at the Police Department that has made Whitman so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
03.09.2005	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Braintree has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $202,414, will fund operations and firefighter safety. Braintree is the seventh community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2004. This is the third Fire Grant that the Town of Braintree has received from the federal government. In 2002, FEMA awarded the Braintree Fire Department $82,217 to fund HAZMAT operations and firefighter training. And in 2003, Congressman Lynch helped Braintree to secure a second Fire Grant for $184,408 to fund fire operations and firefighter safety. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs. The total of all FY 2004 awards will represent a $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. "Firefighters are on the front lines protecting our communities. They risk their lives to keep our families safe and our homeland secure. This funding will go a long way in helping these brave men and women continue the extraordinary job they do for all those in their communities,” Senator Kennedy said of the funding. "Firefighters are on our frontlines of defense every day, whether its homeland security or protecting our families in an emergency. We need to be sure they have the tools they need. This grant for the Braintree Fire Department is important to keeping these heroes and our communities safe,” said Senator Kerry. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Braintree. Chief Gerry Kenny put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with our Senator Mike Morrissey and Representative Joe Driscoll to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.”Nearly 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Braintree was one of just 230 fire departments nationwide, and nine in Massachusetts, to be selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Braintree’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Kenny at the Fire Department and Chief Frazier at the Police Department that has made Braintree so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
03.03.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Spenser Lee of Jeanne Road in Randolph for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Spenser, the son of John and Shirley Lee, is an honor student at Randolph High School and the Captain of the Varsity Cross Country, Wrestling and Track Teams. Upon his admission, Spenser Lee will join another Randolph native, Jennifer Ng of Lisa Road, who was appointed by Congressman Lynch to the Air Force Academy in 2003. Ng was recently ranked in the top 2% of the Class of 2007 at the Academy. Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Military Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "Spenser came highly regarded by the Air Force and by his teachers and coaches in Randolph. He is exceptional and we expect great things from him. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Baghdad and spending some time with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the Randolph community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. After an extensive review process during which Congressman Lynch with his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs Bob Fowkes, together with the military academies examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation, Spenser Lee was selected as someone whose academic strengths, character and love of him country put him at the top of an impressive group of candidates.Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Spenser is a wonderful reflection of his parents John and Shirley Lee. I know that he will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Lee family, as well as the town of Randolph and the entire state have much to be proud of in Spenser. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
03.02.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that he has nominated Mary Balaconis of East Broadway for acceptance to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Mary, the daughter of George and Mary Balaconis, is a student at Boston Latin and the Captain of the Varsity Women’s Ice Hockey Team. Each year, as part of his Congressional responsibilities, Congressman Lynch is asked to present one or two exemplary candidates from the 9th Congressional District for admission to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. "It seems as though after September 11th, 2001, the number of highly qualified applicants seeking admission to the Military Academies has increased sharply. This is the best of America's next generation answering their nation's call to duty. These are all remarkable young people from wonderful families. It gives me great hope for our nation’s future,” said Congressman Lynch. "It just so happens that I grew up with George and Roy Balaconis here in South Boston. I played ball with them. I knew their Dad, he was always involved with his kids. Both the Balaconis and the Guerin families have a strong tradition of military service. But make no mistake, this young lady is highly regarded by the Air Force. She is exceptional and we expect great things from her. I’m very proud to make this nomination. These are challenging times for our nation's military, and after visiting Baghdad and spending some time with our troops, I am especially mindful of the personal courage that these decisions require of these young men and women. And I know how it effects the entire family, and the South Boston community, so it becomes quite personal," said Congressman Lynch. After an extensive review process during which Congressman Lynch with his Congressional Liaison for Military Affairs Bob Fowkes, together with the military academies examined each candidate's academic record, athletic achievements, extra-curricular activities and letters of recommendation, Mary Balaconis was selected as someone whose academic strengths, character and love of her country put her at the top of an impressive group of candidates. Congressman Lynch said, "This was a very competitive process because of the large number of outstanding candidates from our district. Mary is a wonderful reflection of her parents George and Mary Balaconis. I know that Mary will make an extraordinary addition to the U.S. Armed Forces. The Balaconis and Guerin families, as well as the neighborhood of South Boston and the entire state have much to be proud of in Mary. In making this nomination, I share that pride.” Congressman Lynch encourages all high school juniors interested in attending one of the United States Service Academies to contact Mr. Robert Fowkes in his Boston Office at (617) 428-2000. -30-
02.24.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today introduced the "Military Education Parity Act of 2005" (H.R. 333), legislation that would ensure that Reservists and National Guard members who are called up to Active Duty are not penalized by their institutions of higher learning. The legislation would protect active duty military personnel from losing class credits or forfeiting their scholarships or grants. It would require that colleges and universities effectively "freeze" the educational standing of service men and women when they are mobilized. Today, the men and women of the National Guard and the Reserves have no such protection. Congressman Lynch said, "Today, we are incredibly fortunate to have more than 870,000 Americans who have volunteered to join the National Guard and Reserves. And as a nation, we are asking more of these men and women than we ever have before. We're calling them up on shorter notice, we're extending their deployments overseas, and we're asking them to put themselves in harm's way on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan. It makes perfect sense that we should not penalize men and women who are called upon to serve our country. Ideally, one would hope that a law like this would be unnecessary. It is my hope that this bill will provide a guarantee that no enlisted person will have to give up their scholarship or research grant or their educational goals in order to fulfill their patriotic duty.” More than 200,000 of National Guard Members and Reservists are students at institutions of higher education. Congressman Lynch’s legislation would help those men and women by:• Granting students a military leave of absence when they are called or ordered to Active Duty and restoring their educational status when they return;• Protecting students from losing their academic credits, scholarships or grants;• Requiring schools to refund tuition or fees paid prior to the commencement of Active Duty. Lynch continued, "As the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines dwindles, America is relying on her National Guard members and Reservists more and more. Approximately half of the 135,000 men and women serving in Iraq come from the National Guard and Reserves. When they were called up to Active Duty, they were forced to leave behind their families, their friends, their careers and their education. We have a responsibility to help them restart their education when they return home." -30-
02.14.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today was named Ranking Member of the House Committee on Government Reform's Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs. As the Subcommittee's highest ranking Democratic Member, Congressman Lynch will take on a pivotal role on a panel that will closely examine regulations that affect a wide range of industries. The Subcommittee’s regulatory oversight responsibilities include agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the FCC, the US Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the National Labor Relations Board, INS, Amtrak, and the Small Business Administration as well as others. In his new role, Congressman Lynch has expressed interest in strengthening regulations that target the most persistent abuse of taxpayers, consumers and small businesses, while streamlining cumbersome and ineffective bureaucracies. Lynch has also cautioned that congressional oversight is necessary to ensure that agency decisions and actions are not improperly influenced by regulated industries and interest groups. "I’m very pleased to be taking on this new responsibility, I’m grateful for the opportunity and eager to get to work,” said Lynch. Lynch, who was elected to the Congress in October 2001, will continue to serve on the Committee on Financial Services as well as the.Government Reform Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, which also has jurisdiction over Veterans Affairs. -30-
02.08.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) today urged President Bush to reverse the decision by the Department of Homeland Security last July 6th to terminate, as of February 27th, the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) granted to the 292 refugees from the island of Montserrat. In a letter to President Bush that was co-signed by thirteen other Members of Congress, Congressman Lynch called on the President not to force the Montserratian families to return home to their island, which has been devastated by a volcano. The eruption of a volcano in 1995 destroyed two-thirds of the small island of Montserrat and, in the wake of the devastation, the United States granted TPS to Montserratians. Today, according to State Department officials, the island is not safe for resettlement, and those who are on the island now are close to subsistence status. Forcing hundreds more men, women and children to return to the island would further weaken the struggling Montserratian economy and would cause a deterioration in the quality of life for every island resident. In the last decade, conditions on the island have not improved, and may actually have worsened. Congressman Lynch said, "To expel the Montserratians now and require them to return under present conditions would be a serious threat to their safety and an affront to our long-standing reputation as a leader in refugee protection. Many of these men and women have been living and working in the United States for a decade, and have become important members of our communities and our churches. And we’d be forcing their U.S. citizen children to leave their schools and friends and the only home they’ve ever known. It’s just wrong to punish legal immigrants who are working hard, paying taxes and playing by the rules. I am working with Senators Kennedy and Kerry, Cooperative Metropolitan Ministries and the Montserratian Community to persuade President Bush to overturn this harmful decision.” Vera Weekes, national coordinator of the efforts to extend TPS for Montserratians and to prevent deportation of Montserratians, said, "In Montserrat, people are still living in shelters and there is an acute shortage of suitable accommodation There are not enough jobs for the people who are already there. If we send these refugees back, how can we expect them to survive under the present circumstances and to provide for their families? They're supporting themselves here in the US and they're a not burden nor a threat to anyone here. Why would we make them a burden on someone else? I thank Congressman Lynch for his support of our people, and for his leadership on this issue." Congressman Lynch is also a co-sponsor of legislation that is pending in Congress (H.R. 342, S. 2816) that would allow the Monserrratian refugees on TPS to apply for permanent residency. -30-
02.08.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today called on Democrats and Republicans in the Congress to reject the cuts in funding for veterans health care that President Bush has recommended in his budget. Lynch said that the cuts, which include doubling the co-payments for prescriptions and imposing new fees on veterans, would set a dangerous precedent and prevent thousands of veterans from getting the care they need. Congressman Lynch said, "I can’t understand how the President can continue to advocate tax cuts for the rich and yet he will not stand with veterans who have made enormous sacrifices for this country. Just five days ago in his State of the Union Address, President Bush praised our service men and women for their honor, courage and service. He said that ‘this grateful country will do everything we can to help them recover.’ Today the President told those same men and women that their health care was not a priority in his budget and broke our promise to millions of American veterans.” Lynch was responding to the submission of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget request for fiscal year 2006, which begins this October. The President's funding requests for all federal agencies will now be considered by Congress. The President’s budget raises health care costs for hundreds of thousands of veterans, raising the co-payment on prescription drugs from $7 to $15 for a 30-day supply and requires veterans to pay a new $250 fee to access the VA medical system. Veterans continue to wait up to 8 to 10 months for a doctor’s appointment at the VA. "As America prepares to welcome a new generation of veterans home from Iraq and Afghanistan, it shortchanges veterans' health care programs, providing about $2 billion less than veterans service organizations believe is needed," said Lynch. He added that the President’s budget once again fails to repeal the Disabled Veterans Tax, which forces disabled military retirees to give up one dollar of their pension for every dollar of disability pay they receive. According to Congressman Lynch, who serves on the Government Reform Subcommittee that oversees the VA, "These cuts will leave the VA unprepared to care for the growing number of veterans in this country. They will mean fewer doctors, fewer nurses, fewer therapists and staff which means longer waiting lists for appointments, and thousands of veterans who won't have access to the health care they deserve. The VA is not an entitlement program. These men and women who have put the uniform on their back and their lives on the line have earned these benefits. We have the responsibility to ensure that the United States lives up to the promise it made to every service man and woman and gives the VA the tools they need to help our injured veterans to recover and allow them to live their lives with dignity.” Meanwhile, Congressman Lynch has also introduced legislation to make it easier for veterans to purchase prescription drugs from the VA and another bill to help VA hospitals to recruit and retain high quality nurses and medical staffs. Additionally, he is working on a proposal to improve the care for the high number of amputees returning from Iraq which includes additional funds for the research and manufacture of prosthetics for amputees. -30-
02.02.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Easton has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $225,000, will be used to purchase a new Rescue/Pumper firefighting vehicle for the town. Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Thomas Stone, advocated on behalf of Easton’s application with the Director of the Office of Domestic Preparedness for the Department of Homeland Security in Washington, C. Suzanne Mencer. Easton is the second community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2004. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs. The total of all FY 2004 awards will represent a $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Easton. Chief Stone put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with our great Senator Bob Creedon and Representatives Christine Canavan, Gerry Creedon and Dave Flynn to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.”Nearly 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Easton was one of just 192 fire departments nationwide, and five in Massachusetts, selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Easton’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Stone at the Fire Department and Chief Kominsky at the Police Department that has made Easton so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
02.02.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Hanson has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $46,908, will be used to purchase a new supply and attack hose and replace outdated equipment at the fire station. Congressman Lynch, with the active assistance of Chief Allen Hoyt, advocated on behalf of Hanson’s application with the Director of the Office of Domestic Preparedness for the Department of Homeland Security in Washington, C. Suzanne Mencer. Hanson is the third community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in Fiscal Year 2004. This is the second fire grant that the Town of Hanson has received from the federal government. In FY 2002, FEMA awarded the Hanson Fire Department $199,716 for firefighter safety. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs. The total of all FY 2004 awards will represent a $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This grant is some good news for the Town of Hanson. Chief Allen Hoyt put a strong case forward to Homeland Security officials and it’s obvious they recognized his department’s hard work and commitment to the people they’ve sworn to protect. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with our great Senator Bob Creedon and Representative Daniel Webster to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” Nearly 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Hanson was one of just 192 fire departments nationwide, and five in Massachusetts, selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Hanson’s commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training and the town’s cooperation with regional emergency officials have made them an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it’s been the leadership of Chief Hoyt at the Fire Department and Chief Savage at the Police Department that has made Hanson so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
01.27.2005	Forty-five Members of Congress are calling on United States Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick to use negotiations between the U.S. and Colombia as an opportunity to compel it to protect its union leaders, prosecute those who attack unionists, and reform the labor code to bring it into compliance with international labor standards. In a letter organized by Congressmen Lane Evans (D-IL) and Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), the group said Colombia is currently the most dangerous place in the world for trade unionists; in the last 13 years, over 2,000 Colombian trade unionists were murdered, and thousands more were threatened, displaced, or forced to relocate. Most of this violence has been attributed to the country's right-wing paramilitaries, who have been embroiled in a 40-year civil war with leftist guerillas. The letter urged Ambassador Zoellick to use the US-Andean Free Trade Agreement negotiations to ensure that Colombia addresses violence against union members and takes steps on labor code reform and enforcement. According to the Trade Promotion Act of 2002, the U.S. is required to negotiate language that ensures that a party "does not fail to effectively enforce its own labor laws." "Trade agreements cannot bring prosperity unless they are built on a system of law and respect for basic rights, for workers as well as investors," the lawmakers wrote. "The most basic of workers' rights is the right to life, a right that has been denied to thousands of trade unionists in Colombia. The right to justice for punishment of crimes is another fundamental right, yet justice is not served in Colombia, either. "We urge you to use the time that is left in the negotiating period to be sure that your counterparts in Colombia understand that the government must demonstrate significant progress in addressing the violence against trade unionists, impunity for those who commit this violence, and labor code reform and enforcement in Colombian law. These things are imperative if the Colombian government expects serious consideration of a trade agreement in the U.S. Congress."Congressman Lynch, a member of the International Workers Rights Caucus, said, "We are deeply concerned about the widespread violence against trade unionists in Colombia and the urgent need for the Uribe administration to reform its labor code and fully enforce its labor laws. Trade agreements alone cannot bring prosperity to working people. These agreements also require trading partners who respect their own workers' rights to earn a decent living in a safe workplace, free from oppression and exploitation. Ultimately it is the same respect for the rule of law that protects the basic rights of workers as well as investors." Evans said that President Bush's inaugural vow to spread freedom requires the U.S. to work against violence and protect the rights of trade unionists. "That is something we should be doing all along," Evans said. -30-
01.20.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch introduced House Resolution 616, a measure that would require the House Committee on Government Reform to hold the first public hearings on the intelligence used to justify the invasion of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq. If Lynch’s resolution is adopted, the House of Representatives must begin hearings on pre-war intelligence within 30 days. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Operation Iraqi Freedom began in March 2003, and questions regarding the validity of intelligence and the Bush Administration’s use of that intelligence soon surfaced. Recently, President Bush and members of his Cabinet have admitted that key pieces of the intelligence they used were indeed false. However, to date, not one public congressional hearing has been held on the issue. "All we’re asking for here is the opportunity to ask questions,” said Congressman Lynch. "The Congress has a basic responsibility to determine whether the Bush Administration deliberately misused or manipulated intelligence in the lead up to war. In times of crisis, Members of Congress and the American people must have the confidence that their president is providing them with the most accurate information available – not just the bits of intelligence that support his position.” Democrats on the Government Reform Committee, the Congress’s chief investigatory panel, have repeatedly requested that the Committee hold hearings on pre-war intelligence, but the Republican leadership has refused to do so. Congressman Lynch’s resolution would force the Committee to hold hearings over the Republicans’ objections. "Considering that Republicans held 140 hours of hearings on whether President Clinton abused his Christmas card privileges, it’s inexcusable that they continue to stonewall our requests for hearings on an issue of national security,” added Congressman Lynch. "I hope that this resolution will encourage leadership to do the right thing by the American people and schedule hearings as soon as we return to Washington in January.” Congressman Lynch’s resolution has garnered support from senior Democrats on the Government Reform Committee, including Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-CA), Tom Lantos (D-CA), Paul Kanjorski (D-PA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Brian Higgins (D-NY). One of the resolution’s original co-sponsors, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), said, "It’s critical that the American public know whether Congress was given the same facts as the President when we were asked to decide whether to preemptively invade Iraq. This Administration has some serious explaining to do and these hearings are a first step in getting some of those answers.” -30-
01.19.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch announced today that the Town of Bridgewater has been awarded a Fire Grant from the Department of Homeland Security and United States Fire Administration (USFA). The federally-funded award, in the amount of $95,400, will be used to purchase vehicle exhaust extraction systems for two fire houses, which will protect the firefighters from harmful carbon monoxide fumes. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> The new exhaust systems will be installed at the Main Station on School Street and Station 2 on Plymouth Street. Bridgewater is the fourth community in the Ninth Congressional District to receive an award in 2005. Funded by Congress, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is designed to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, EMS programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs, and fund the purchase of new firefighting equipment. The total of all 2005 awards will represent a $650 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery throughout the United States. Congressman Lynch said, "This Fire Grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Deputy Chief John Nelson, Lieutenant George Rogers and the entire Bridgewater Fire Department. They have demonstrated the ability to adapt and respond to new threats and to do what it takes to protect the families of Bridgewater. I realize that the state budget situation is very difficult right now and we are working with Senator Mark Pacheco and Representative David Flynn to come up with ways to get us through these tough economic times. I hope that by directing these federal dollars toward local public safety needs, we will provide some relief to the local tax base.” More than 20,000 fire departments - volunteer and career - applied for grant awards this year, submitting requests totaling almost $2.5 billion. A lengthy peer review, involving 300 fire service representatives from throughout the United States, was conducted by the USFA over the past several months. Bridgewater was the only fire department in Massachusetts selected in this round of awards. Congressman Lynch has been working closely with each of the cities and towns in the Ninth Congressional District on their applications for federal grants under the Fire Act, and additional funding for first responders made available after September 11th. Lynch added, "Bridgewater's commitment to providing its firefighters with state-of-the art equipment and training has demonstrated that the town is an ideal candidate for homeland security funding. But it's been the leadership of Deputy Chief Nelson and Lieutenant Rogers at the Fire Department that has made Bridgewater so successful at securing these funds.” -30-
01.13.2005	Members of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today wrote to the House Transportation, Treasury and HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, urging that an additional $360 million in funding be added to the Public Housing Operating Funds (PHOF) account to help housing authorities address rising heating costs. The federal government established the Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to assist household having trouble heating their homes. However, because the cost of energy in public housing is included in the rental voucher provided to residents, public housing dwellers are not eligible to apply for LIHEAP. The housing authorities must absorb all increases in energy costs. Furthermore, the federal subsidy that is provided to public housing agencies is often not fully funded. For example, the Boston Housing Authority will only receive 89% of its federal subsidy for FY 2006. "Home heating costs are rising steeply, with increases projected to reach between 30 and 40%. Housing authorities simply cannot absorb such an increase without additional assistance. I urge quick approval of this funding to give the nation’s housing authorities some measure of relief from skyrocketing energy costs,” stated Congressman Mike Capuano, a member of the Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. "While the temperature is dropping, the cost of heating oil keeps going up and up,” Rep. McGovern said. "It is absolutely critical that we ensure that all our citizens - including those in public housing - can stay warm. I urge my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to provide the necessary funding before Congress recesses for the year.” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, member of the House Subcommittee of Housing and Community Opportunity, said, "It is essential that our already-strapped housing authorities have the resources they need to ensure that our public housing residents have sufficient heat for the cold months ahead. We’re calling on Congress and the Administration to act quickly to protect the most vulnerable Americans during this difficult time.”<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> -30-
01.06.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today introduced the "Rail Worker Emergency Training Act of 2005,” (H.R. 4372) legislation that would establish a comprehensive emergency training program for all rail workers. Lynch filed his bill in response to reports that an overwhelming majority of surveyed rail workers indicated that America’s railroads are still highly vulnerable to a terrorist attack, natural disaster, and other emergencies due to a number of security gaps and lack of training. In September, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Rail Security Conference issued a unique rail security report entitled "High Alert:Workers Warn of Security Gaps on Nation’s Railroads.”The report was based on over 4,000 surveys completed by members of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen (BLET) and the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees Division (BMWED).According to the report, there is a significant lack of adequate rail worker training; the report reveals that 84% of the rail workers surveyed indicated that they had not received any or additional terrorism prevention and response training within the last 12 months; 99% reported that they had not received specific training related to the monitoring of nuclear waste shipments; and 62% indicated that they had not been trained on their role in their railroad’s Emergency Action Plan or Emergency Response Plan. Congressman Lynch has been a leader on the issue of rail security in the 109th Congress.Earlier this year, Lynch introduced the "Rail Transit Safety and Security Act of 2005,” legislation that would overhaul training for rail workers, expand safety and communications systems, and improve emergency preparedness of America’s rail networks and personnel.Because the Republican leadership has refused to take up the bill, Lynch introduced the new legislation that focuses on those provisions that improve training for rail workers. "Four years after September 11th, two years after the Madrid bombings, and six months after the bombings in London, the United States has still not taken the necessary steps to improve rail security,” said Congressman Lynch."Our rail workers haven’t received terrorism prevention and response training, and we are wholly unprepared to prevent and respond to a terrorist attack or disaster on the rails.It’s inexcusable.This is a low-cost, and enormously effective step we can take to heighten security and preparedness on our railways.It’s a matter of common sense.” The Rail Worker Emergency Training Act of 2005 would: Require the Secretary of Homeland Security, within 90 days of enactment, to establish comprehensive guidelines for a rail worker emergency training program.The Secretary’s guidelines must address several key areas, including critical infrastructure and equipment security inspection, hazardous material storage, transport, and monitoring, unauthorized rail yard access, locomotive cab securement, and evacuation procedures in the event of fire or natural disaster. Require the Secretary to consult with the Secretary of Transportation and "appropriate rail entities,” including, freight and passenger railroad carriers, rail worker unions, public safety officials, and State Departments of Transportations. Require rail carriers to develop a rail worker training program based on the Secretary’s guidelines and to train all of their rail workers within 1 year. Authorize the Secretary to issue letters of noncompliance – to be published in the Federal Register – to any carrier that fails to comply with the Act’s requirements. Appropriate 100 million dollars to the Secretary to carry out the act. Lynch added, "There are five times as many people who travel by train as compared to those who use airplanes. But since September 11th, the United States has spent 60 times more dollars on airline security than on rail security.Many of our rail systems have emergency response plans, but they’re worthless if rail workers don’t know they exist.It’s time to establish clear guidelines for emergency training, and prepare our rail workers to respond to a terrorist attack.” This week, Lynch’s legislation received letters of support from both the Teamsters Rail Security Conference and Transport Workers Union of America. If you would like to read the full text of the Teamsters Rail Conference’s Railroad Security Report ("High Alert: Workers Warn of Security Gaps on Nation’s Railroads”), click here. -30-
01.02.2005	Congressman Stephen F. Lynch today announced that the Congress and President Bush have approved $1,031,459 for the purchase of brand new Brockton Area Transit buses. The funding was included in the Transportation Appropriations Act for FY 2006. "In the last few years, federal dollars have helped to fuel a dramatic upgrade in transportation services for the people of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Brockton and surrounding communities," said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. "With the help of Senators Kennedy and Kerry, we were able to secure more than $10 million for the construction of the new Intermodal Centre and for new, cleaner burning BAT buses. With this new funding, we are hoping to build on that success.” Earlier this year, after lengthy discussions with Mayor Jack Yunits, Councilor Jim Harrington and BAT Administrator Ray Ledoux, Congressman Lynch approached Republican and Democratic leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to formally request federal funding for the continued replacement of the older and less fuel efficient bus fleet with newer, cleaner operating buses. Congressman Lynch was notified that the funding would be included in the final House version of the bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the House and Senate last week, and signed into law by President Bush on Wednesday. BAT Administrator Ray Ledoux said, "On behalf of BAT and the City of Brockton, I want to thank Congressman Lynch for all his hard work on providing good sound transportation alternatives in our region.” Over the last two years, Congressman Lynch has secured a total of $6.28 million in federal funding for new BAT buses. All told, this funding will allow BAT to purchase 24 new buses for its fleet. These 24 new buses are eligible for federal funding because they replace buses that have been in service for over 12 years. Additionally, 15 of these buses have logged more than 350,000 miles in service. The cost of replacing each coach is approximately $300,000, and BAT intends to complete this replacement program in phases over the next few years. Lynch added, "Nearly half the cities and towns in my District will benefit from these new buses. And we all know that it would never have been possible without the leadership of Mayor Yunits, Council President Jim Harrington, Representatives Gerry Creedon, Christine Canavan and Ray Ledoux of the Brockton Area Transit Authority and the entire Brockton delegation." Brockton Area Transit Authority has an annual operating budget of nearly $10.5 million and accommodates over 3 million passengers each year with its fixed-route and elderly/disabled transportation services. It serves the communities of Brockton, Abington, Avon, Easton, East Bridgewater, West Bridgewater, Stoughton, and Whitman. -30-
